ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to include a new paragraph on the extension of the deadline for the completion of its work to the subcommission for a state pact on gender-based violence until 31 July 2017, set up within the Equality Commission. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u2	We begin with the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions, with dossier numbers 110/000033 to 110/000040. On behalf of the Government, first of all, the Vice-President and Minister of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations is speaking.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking today at the plenary session of the House, under Rule 70.5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress, in this debate on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada, to share with all of you, on behalf of the Government, a series of reflections on what we are going to vote on in a few hours' time. Firstly, I would like to make it clear that the Government has actively defended this agreement. We have done so for political coherence and rigorously from the first day to the last. First, because we understand that it allows for the generation of prosperity and growth in Spain, the European Union and Canada. Secondly, because it is a step forward towards creating an area of internationally agreed rules with a partner with whom we share common values and principles, especially freedom and a strong defence of democracy. The great growth potential of bilateral trade and mutual investment, EUR 450 billion resulting from this agreement, will undoubtedly reverse an increase in the quality of life of all, Europeans and Canadians. At the moment, the defence of openness and free trade against protectionism advocated by some is one of the values that the European Union is defending and that is distinguishing us from other areas of the world. The ratification of CETA - as is known - is but a logical consequence of this commitment and of this commitment for an open, integrated and inclusive Europe; a responsible Europe, which seeks new markets but especially new opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel that sometimes you forget - and should not forget - that Spain is one of the great winners of openness to the outside world. The growth of the Spanish economy and very particularly our exit from the crisis are coming precisely from the outside sector and any decision that closes the door to isolationism is a good decision. What is being put to the vote today goes far beyond an agreement. CETA is not only the initiative of a government that must be ratified by a Parliament, it is a step forward in the construction of an open Europe, generating prosperity, economic growth and employment, which also exports its democratic values. It is the will of twenty-eight European governments to open a permanent space of collaboration and exchange of a country as close to us as Canada; governments of more than five hundred million citizens, sovereign governments of different political sensibilities, ideologically diverse, but united by a shared idea: more freedom, more prosperity and more rights for all citizens; ultimately, more Europe. It is not simply a trade agreement between the signatories that involves the removal of barriers between countries on both sides of the Atlantic, it is also a step forward in the construction of our European project; a project that was born now sixty years ago and ended decades of confrontation between Europeans and the atrocities caused by extremism and radicalism. The European Union was born precisely as the antidote to extremism and radicalism. Let us not allow the most extreme ideas to end the idea of Europe. The Spaniards have been part of this space of rights and freedoms, prosperity and well-being for three decades; the best thirty years of our history, the years of our progress as a nation. I believe that there is nothing less progressive than voting against progress or nothing more anti-European than voting against the very essence of Europe. I am not going to go into the list of all the commitments included in the agreement, because although some people are opening their positions today, this matter has already been discussed by this House twice and the Foreign Minister intervened in plenary to explain the text in detail, but I do want to say that betting on this treaty is betting on growth and, therefore, on job creation. To vote in favour today is to support a responsible, balanced model of globalization, in which free trade coexists with just global rules that respect sustainable development and include all actors involved in this new context of relations. To support this treaty today is above all to help Spain continue to be at the forefront of this promising moment in Europe, gaining leadership and strengthening its weight. Our position, ladies and gentlemen, is unequivocal, inter alia, because it has not changed. It may be that of others, and one wonders why. It will be these groups who have to explain their sense of vote; explanations to those who voted for them in elections that were held a year ago and to those who came with a European and European programme, without nuances and without excuses; explanations to our European partners, also to those social democratic parties with which they were hand in hand in the ratification of the European Parliament a few months ago. I have great interest in hearing what is going to be said in this House today; I have it because I think there will be no excuses. I open quotes: 'I sincerely believe that CETA is the most advanced agreement that the European Union has made, it is not a danger to European trade, nor to the Union's labour, social or environmental standards'. The phrase is not mine, but I subscribe to it 100 percent. It was delivered on 14 February, the day before the vote by the European Parliament, by Mr Sergio Gutiérrez, Secretary-General of the Spanish Socialists in the European Parliament. Since that day the treaty has not changed and the position of the Government has not changed, neither that of Europe nor of Canada nor of the rest of the groups in this House; the only thing that has changed is the desire of some who, in their struggle to lead the opposition, do not hesitate to oppose themselves. I do not think we can amend what many of us have represented in this House in these forty years of democracy. Those who signed the Treaty of Accession to the European Union cannot refrain from continuing to build Europe. I think it cannot be equidistant between more Europe or more populism, between more Europe or more Marine Le Pen, between more Europe or more Pablo Iglesias. Europe is at an interesting moment, at a crossroads. The vast majority of us have chosen the path of the future and progress; others are trying to turn back and drag us all into that past. We'll have to ask ourselves where we're going, in particular, if we're going somewhere, because when the parties stop defining ourselves in the essentials, we end up becoming irrelevant. [[Applauds]] I'm done. In this House, some parliamentary groups are always feeding their speech on missed occasions. Let us not give them today a chance to do it once more. Let us take advantage of the ratification of this agreement to continue to build a more prosperous Spain and a stronger Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u4	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, in order to establish a position, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u5	Thank you, Madam President. I want to say that the Canary Islands is deeply European. Europe has always been with the Canary Islands, has always been and has recognized in its Constitution the Canary Islands as an ultraperipheral region - the only Spanish community that is named in the treaty - and has always been understanding with the problems, solutions and policies specific to our land. The Canary Islands Coalition is in the European Democratic Party, together with the PNV, and from our political strength we will support this treaty because we are deeply European and because we believe that at a time when European values are under discussion we must be with Europe, we must be with European democracy, we must be with European values. Canary Islands and the two million Canary Islands feel deeply European. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. In a minute you can say. We reiterate once again the refusal of the sovereignist and independenceist left to these last generation agreements. They are agreements that draw a Europe that we do not want, that we do not like, a Europe that makes the European space a logistic platform rather than an area of rights and freedoms, a Europe that thinks more about the benefit of markets than about the rights and dignity of people. We believe that in the face of a treaty like this only the no can be done, and we sincerely do not understand how a party, the Socialist Party, which, from our point of view, is evolving towards a critical position on CETA, as it would have to do about the TTIP or the agreement that is being negotiated in secret with Japan, remains abstaining. If anything is potentially harmful to citizenship, to the people of the European Union, the normal, the reasonable thing will be to oppose it. I don't understand, and I don't think anyone understands, the middle term. What would have to be done by a Parliament that defends sovereignty, that defends the freedom of citizens and democracy, is to oppose treaties that are precisely what they want to eschew their rights, their freedom and their sovereignty. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be deceived, this is not a debate between free trade and autarchy or protectionism, it is not a debate between extremism and balanced positions. This is a debate between oligopolies and vertebrate societies, which is what we have achieved with great effort in the European Union and which is now at risk with CETA. We, since Compromís, have been in favour of trade agreements, but we care very much that these treaties have guarantees, not only economic but also social and environmental, for all the parties involved. In other words, we are in favour of trade agreements that are carried out under a fair, ethical and sustainable paradigm; exactly the opposite of CETA. Secretism and the absence of debate have been present in the negotiation of this agreement. CETA seeks to establish the type of trade that is to be imposed globally; a trade tailored to the size of large corporations, at the expense of the unprotected rights of individuals and natural resources. CETA, as denounced by the Canadian and European trade union movement, does not speak at all about labour rights, trade union and collective bargaining, and in terms of agriculture, CETA would undermine the way of life of small farmers and remove them from the effort to promote sustainable agriculture. For these reasons which I have quickly listed, and for many others, Compromís will today vote no to the economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, precisely because it is an agreement that forgets people, the environment, justice, equality and democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canadés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame that we have so little time to discuss in depth an issue as relevant as this. Some revision of our Rules of Procedure should be made. In any case, the Democratic Party will support the ratification of CETA with all conviction. If Europe cannot negotiate a trade agreement with Canada, it will not be able to negotiate with any country in the world. In the world, what most resembles the European social and economic model is Canada; moreover, ladies and gentlemen, from the conviction that this agreement, which goes beyond tariffs and removes bureaucratic barriers to exports, is a great opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises. For a country like Catalonia, which is a country open to exports, an economy that aspires to look like it and, in fact, looks like the open economies of northern and central Europe, CETA is a huge opportunity, and whoever says otherwise confuses and deceives public opinion. In addition, CETA is the type of treaty that protects the social, labour and environmental standards of the European model, without any complex. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as other parliaments have done, we hope that this Parliament will approve this treaty. We would like the Socialist Party to be inspired by the social democratic parties of Denmark, Sweden and Germany, and the Spanish trade union world to be inspired by the trade unions of those countries, which are convinced that trade is prosperity, that it is quality employment, that it is value added employment. That's the battle we're playing. A closed Europe, an autonomous Europe, a protectionist Europe is a Europe with fewer jobs, a more degraded Europe and a Europe that does not understand the times we are living in. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u12	Thank you very much for your two minutes, Mr. Campuzano. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u13	Thank you, Madam President. In the absence of a debate, this is the third time that I have spoken in plenary, and there has also been another debate in the Commission. For those who want to know in detail the position of the Basque Nationalist Party, I refer to the exhibition that I made during the last parliamentary term and also recently, a few weeks ago in this very plenary session. We are going to vote in favour, we are convinced of that, because certainly the topics that are said around CETA are not sustained. We are talking about the defence of multinationals, but it is precisely multinationals that do not need such agreements. Those who open up opportunities for access to other markets are precisely small and medium-sized enterprises. Multinationals don't need it to move from one country to another at all. There are a number of topics on this agreement, for example arbitration. Nothing is said of the hundreds of treaties that are in force by the European Union and it seems that the problem now of CETA is the issue of arbitration, precisely when it is reformed and it is turned upside down, marking the future of an international court on the subject, creating a system in which there will be professional judges to clarify any differences in the treaty. Precisely when we move forward, it is when we criticise that this is wrong, and before that nothing has been said. There is also much talk of privatization. Canada and the European Union have signed a joint declaration which is also part of CETA, which states that no country will be obliged to privatize anything, but that certain areas, such as water, social services, health and education, have also been expressly excluded from privatization, in case anyone had any doubts. As regards the protected indications - products of origin, their quality, in their terms - all those submitted by the Spanish State have been admitted and it is also open to the possibility that new ones in the future may also be protected in this way. With regard to labour and social standards, which seem to be sinking into the world, a fundamental principle of the treaty is that those matters in which labour standards, or environmental standards, could be different - and there are few - between Canada and the European Union are expressly excluded from the treaty; therefore, no fear on this issue. It has been legally reviewed by active and passive from the European Parliament to other institutions. I think the debate has been enough, it will be positive for the economy, for the citizens and we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u14	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u15	Thank you, Madam President. The People's Party Government and all its economic ministers say CETA is nothing more than a free trade treaty, no more tariffs and other niceties. By doing so, you will be able to deceive your orange crutch and your neomuletilla, who thinks that abstention at this point will help to prevent the Government from continuing its harmful economic policies. CETA is not just a free trade treaty, it is a treaty that puts the interests of large industrial and financial corporations ahead of workers' rights and citizenship. It puts labour rights at risk, favours the privatization of public services, undermines consumer and environmental protection standards and represents a genuine capitulation to the interests of large companies, putting at risk existing regulatory laws within the European Union. CETA contains controversial private arbitration tribunals to which multinational companies may appeal if they consider that States apply regulatory changes that negatively affect their interests and expectations of benefits, even if these are health or environmental protection laws. Gentlemen, where do you leave the sovereignty of this country, with which you so much fill your mouth when it comes to facing Catalonia, if here it seems that you are selling it to the highest bidder? CETA is not a free trade treaty, it is a treaty of free exploitation. Canada is but a first step, and another treaty with Japan is already discussed, between the scenes, and then comes the painful treaty with the United States. I would like to congratulate the Socialists on opposing this treaty, but not the Spanish, but the Canadian. Being from the left is not going to neoliberalism either by active or passive, that is not from the left. Throughout Europe, civil society organisations have already shown their rejection of these agreements and demand their right to decide on those that have the greatest significance in their daily lives. We join those who call for a referendum throughout Spain to approve CETA or not. I know the People's Party won't accept it because it's afraid of the ballot box. The alternative is to violently suppress demonstrations or put the ballot boxes and let the people decide. We choose the ballot boxes and know what their position is. I will always defend the causes of the peoples because they are never lost causes. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u16	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u17	Thank you, President. Briefly, in three minutes. Europe has been negotiating this treaty for seven years, I say, because there are people who have said that there has not been enough time. Seven years seems to me a reasonable time to negotiate a treaty. [[Applauds]] The European Commission has called this agreement a liberal and progressive one. As you will understand, the Liberal and Progressive Party is going to vote in favour of this agreement, because it is also an agreement with a liberal and progressive Canadian government; therefore, we are absolutely convinced that this is the way forward. I will comment on some of the issues that have been said, or that have been lied to in this rostrum. This is basically an agreement for Spanish SMEs, so that Spanish small and medium-sized enterprises can be stronger. Who's afraid to compete? Who does not believe in himself, who does not believe in his country, who does not believe in his enterprises, who does not believe in his human capital, who does not believe in his startups. Those who oppose this treaty do not trust the Spanish, do not trust our companies, do not trust our products. We do trust our companies, we do trust our workers, if we trust our products, because we can be better than others. If anyone has to fear a treaty like this it is the one that competes with Spain, because we are competitive, because we can be better. [[Applauds]] This is a treaty to improve consumer quality standards, so that they have more supply. Are you afraid to have more offer? Are you afraid of selling a good Spanish product in Canada? Are you afraid that products will enter Spain to compete and lower prices for consumers? Is that really the economic policy of the Socialist Party, of Podemos or of the separatists? Are you really afraid that consumers will have more offer? Who said oligopoly? Oligopoly and monopoly is precisely going against this treaty; what generates this treaty is competence. [[Applauds]] Speaking of the environment, is there any more acceptable country or one that we can learn from climate change, renewable energy, other than Canada? I wish Spain were fulfilling and leading the fight against climate change or renewable energy like Canada. Let's look like them, don't be afraid. I wish Mr. Rajoy was like Trudeau and defended the environment policies that Trudeau defends. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, when a market is opened, an opportunity to be better opens up, an opportunity to create jobs opens up, an opportunity to compete in a global world opens up, an opportunity opens up for people who have a dream to carry it out without borders. By the way, speaking of borders, Mr Campuzano, you have made a speech just to end by saying: and that is why we want independence, to leave Europe, to put tariffs and to put new borders. It is absolutely contradictory to vote in favour of this treaty. [[Applauds]] Nor did I find Mrs de Esquerra Republicana to be very consistent, defending Spanish national sovereignty. Thank you, it's been very good. [[Applauds.-Protests]] The spokesman said: where is national sovereignty, gentlemen? I like it, I like it very much because it is what you want to liquidate: national sovereignty. Don't worry, don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u18	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u19	Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, the truth is that it is a pity for you to change your position when you have been a European party always, when you have been a party that has always supported these kinds of treaties, when you have been with Felipe González at the head of entry into Europe. This is the poster of the election campaign of Felipe González - it will sound to you because it is in the exhibition that is being made these days -, in which you read: 'The key of Europe is in your hand'. [[It shows it.]] Fortunately, the key to Europe is not in your hand today, it is in the hand of Citizens, who have the majority to take forward the CETA. [[Applauds]] It is a good thing that the key is not in your hand because, if not, Spain would be the protagonist today of a horrific ridiculous, which is to vote in favour of the European Parliament and to bring down in the national Parliament a treaty that interests all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u20	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Bustinduy Amador has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u21	Today, at the last ordinary plenary session before the summer, we are going to ratify CETA, following a flawed process, full of vices, sloppy and improper by this Parliament. The question is: why are you in such a hurry? Is it because, as you have been saying these days, it is urgent to adopt a treaty that will create prosperity and endless employment? Canada accounts for 0.5% of Spain's exports, is the number 38 country in our foreign trade, so that's not true. You want to impose your model; the model of a democracy without citizens, of a consumer society governed by large companies; the model of this treaty which creates special courts for multinational companies outside our legal system, which creates unelected regulatory bodies, which cannot be controlled by the public authorities and without any democratic control; the model of a treaty which threatens economic rights, labour rights, environmental rights, women's rights, the rights of working people. In politics, sometimes it is very easy to know what is at stake, just to see who defends what. Against this treaty are associations of producers, farmers, prosecutors, judges, the environment, thousands of local entities, trade unions all over Europe. Who's in favor? The great European employer, the financial lobbies and you. [[Applauds]] The truth is that you have been in such a hurry and have run so far to twist the arm of the Socialist Party, so that what is happening does not happen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we thank you for your change of position, but you understand that this abstention is insufficient, because it is another abstention that allows things to happen. [[Rumors]] His group's spokesman said the other day he had doubts about the constitutionality of the treaty. I assure you that they are no doubt; that they are certainties: CETA is unconstitutional, and I am convinced that you, who are a renowned jurist, if you read our letter today you would have voted in favour and not against sending CETA to the Constitutional Court, and would not now advocate that your group abstain from this treaty. I want to tell you, however, that it is not too late. In the Senate we will again ask for constitutionality control for CETA, we will demand the mandatory report of the General Council of the Judiciary, which inexplicably and incomprehensiblely has not yet been drawn up. When it is ratified we will finally appeal this treaty to the Constitutional Court and we will continue to fight in the other twenty-six countries of the European Union so that this harmful treaty will never see the light. Help us to have a political and informed debate in other European social democratic parties about what CETA represents and the threat it represents. I assure you with total conviction that it is a noble cause, that it is a just cause, that the future of Europe is at stake. Finally, to those who are going to vote yes today, I say that by voting in favour of this treaty you are voting for another rule 135. You are legislating against popular sovereignty and against the interests of your people. Gentlemen of the PNV and gentlemen of the PDECAT, also against their people, who claim so much to defend. [[Applauds]] I'm going to tell you, finally, that neither we nor the millions of people who put us here are going to resign or we're going to get tired. We're going to keep fighting until we can stop this treaty, and have no doubt that we're going to get it. With popular sovereignty one does not trade; the rights of our people are not for sale. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u22	For the Socialist Group, Mr Pons Sampietro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to continue to have the keys to Europe we should listen to what is happening outside, because from February until now - we do not accept lessons from anyone - too many things have happened. It seems as if nothing had happened with the Dutch elections, as if nothing had happened with the German elections, as if nothing had happened. Too many things are going on, so it's better to listen to people outside and not make self-congratulation speeches. First lesson. The majority of this country just a week ago knew practically nothing about this treaty; today, thanks to the Socialists, this debate is out and there is a lot, a lot of concern. [[Laughter]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u24	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u25	As Dani Rodrik says, it is very important to ask why so many citizens out there - both Canadian and European - see this treaty as a threat and why. It is also questionable whether CETA curbs the globalization that generates winners and losers. That is why the debate we have today on CETA is an opportunity to respond to that concern by putting forward a model of trade policies that guarantee welfare and reduce inequality. We defend free trade, but with rules, applied from universal values of social Europe that we have always flagged Social Democrats. A free trade that opens up borders, but guarantees rights at the same time. CETA is an improved treaty, a symbol that globalisation can be much fairer and a symptom that European governance has room for improvement - there is room for improvement for European governance - and that will do Europeans and the European project much good, if we love it so much. We are aware of the lack of dignity in Europe and that many people feel, as I said before, so we must look for alternatives. It is a deficit that has changed into a global insurrection with Trump, Brexit and xenophobic parties in Europe. Or has nothing happened in Europe in recent years? It should be remembered that CETA was conceived in 2007, ten years ago, at a time when the crisis began. Opposing CETA will neither solve the problems of European governance nor change the pace of globalisation. That is why, with our abstention, we want to pay attention to this new European framework, which seems to open in the second half of 2017. Because it seems that Europe is being re-founded and that requires a review of these treaties. So let us take four lessons from what CETA teaches us. First lesson, to combat inequality, international trade must be humanized with progressive treaties and more just globalization; a Europe that orders and rules; a Europe that supports the Paris Climate Change Agreement must be translated into CETA; it must not go beyond points. Second lesson, European governance must be accountable to citizens and trade policies must be in line with treaties that consolidate social, labour and environmental rights and also provide for conflict resolution without ad hoc courts. If these kinds of agreements disengage from social Europe, they will continue to drive citizens away from the European dream. You know, if you dream a little, you get old very quickly. Third lesson, free trade but within the framework of our Constitution, which enshrines a social and market economy in a social and legal state. And fourth and final election, we debate with civil society and with transparency in Parliaments, as happened in Wallonia. That is why we are proposing today the creation of a study committee for the next treaties, where we are discussing with all the social partners the impact of these agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, between globalisation without rules, between autarchy and international trade, we have the third option. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u26	Mr García Hernández has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u27	They left you a message. [[Addressing the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Madam President, Madam Vice-President of the Government, the ultimate end of any policy is justice. However, true justice cannot be achieved without being counseled by genuine freedom, and freedom can never be born if it is constantly threatened, if fear is constantly established. With fear, as Plato warned us, demagogy appears. That's why we have to go wrong, we have to live in agony. Now he explained to me the unlikely question of unconstitutionality that Podemos presented about CETA, to delay it according to the primaries of the Socialist Party and its pretended motion of censure, in case he was lucky and he won Pedro Sánchez; luck for Podemos, bad luck for Spain. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] Here today we are discussing whether there is a European bloc or a non-European bloc, and I know that the dark side has great attractions for force, but I have already said that free trade is the only thing that has brought millions of people out of poverty in the 21st century. You disguise yourself as a social neo-protectionism, but you do not defend anyone, you only defend your ideology, as in Venezuela. [[Laughter]] That is why it is more difficult to understand that the Socialist Party has moved from a defence with nuances of CETA to the 'no' of a gum that stretches; to that when they talk to Commissioner Moscovici they go into abstention or to know what awaits us from the new sail. In 1760, Edmund Burke formulated what political parties are, and said they were a counterweight against arbitrary leadership, and I hope that at least we all exercise our responsibility. No one wins in our consciences by primary, not everything is won, everything is agreed. That is the essence of democracy. Don't give up, don't do us the favor of Podemos how they did Chávez in Venezuela. Don't let them fragment you, don't let them fragment us all. We can already have their voters trapped in a cage of radicality that does not allow them to listen to other messages, trapped in their social networks. [[Mr Errejón Galvan utters words that are not perceived]] And to achieve power, which they never abandon because they don't believe in democratic alternation, they don't need more voters, they need others to have less. Do not serve them on a silver platter unless it is too late, as it is today in Caracas. What don't they like about CETA? Is Canada one of the most prosperous nations in the world? That it's Spain? That the European Union, with the European 2020 Strategy, seek partners with free and fair markets? Where does the money come from to pay for social policy? From the prosperity that Spanish people generate every day, that they get up every morning and that they commit to their society without slogans and without T-shirts. What is it that they do not like, that we have changed the productive model to get out of the crisis, that we are increasingly exporting, that 91% of the companies exporting to Canada are small and medium-sized enterprises? This is the only reason why it is in the air why it costs Spain so much the price of Pedro Sánchez's fame. Today he has a European theme where he lost his credibility in voting to Schulz, who I'm sure will praise and look for his photo in the upcoming German elections; always a photo, as if politics would cover on Twitter, but now it's up to CETA to warm up its reputation as futures. I'd like to ask Pedro Sánchez why he went into politics. I am sure that he did so to serve his society better, but something must have been twisted on the road so that he only sees politics as a game of power, of primaries, in which he is able to take hostage an entire country and subject it for his cravings for power to a second election, as he has already done, or to wear his party with an impossible alignment towards the radical left leaving orphans to many legitimate voters of the centre left. Don't you find the price we all pay for your eagerness to be president of the government excessive without presenting any credible alternative? Don't you think that a vote for the primaries doesn't give an entire party that does and undos in a way that looks like a looting of barbaric winners over tribes? Doesn't it seem to you that in democracy we all fit? [[Mr Elorza González speaks words that are not perceived]] Answer honestly to why he entered politics; you don't have to tell us, tell yourself and, if it's not much to ask, without changing your mind every minute. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u28	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u29	We turn to the point concerning the debate on the whole of the proposal for a law on the rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person before the final process of his life. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. For the defence of the amendment, Mrs García Sempere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third plenary session in which we are going to debate rights and guarantees at the end of life. Over the past six months, we have had the opportunity to debate here in the House and also to attend an intense social debate. In these months we have seen as not only experts but journalists and activists also raised the need to address, once and for all, the debate of dignified death and euthanasia. In addition, we have heard different representatives of political parties grieving about the most media cases and taking heart of this claim. I'm going to tell you a few sentences, listen, see if they ring a bell: We need a humanitarian, rigorous and consensual law. It is fair to acknowledge that we have not done so well because of the legal complexity and the moral rapprochement in this matter. Progress has been made in the law of vital wills, but the laws remain short. It is true that coverage and legal protection must be given to the sick and also to medical professionals. I do not know whether they recognize any of these textual quotations, but if they do not, they should, because they correspond to prominent members of Citizens, the Socialist Party, the PDECAT and the People's Party itself. This was how these representatives expressed themselves in a radio programme on the line of a dignified death campaign undertaken by Luis de Marcos - a sick man of multiple sclerosis, for those who do not know him - who questioned us and questioned us with his suffering to those who have the capacity, by legislating, to relieve their pain decriminalizing euthanasia. Citizens, you know our opinion about proposing a law that exclusively improves access and palliative care itself. We echo the conclusions of the International Index of Quality of Death published by The Economist, we echo that to guarantee a dignified death the key lies in a strong public investment in palliative care and, in addition, in an integral training of health professionals. This index also notes something that we have already said several times in this House, through the examples of Belgium and the Netherlands, and which is our fundamental line of work: that the best palliative coverage is compatible, very compatible, with the right to euthanasia and that both provide the best conditions for facing the end of life. That is why we are proposing an alternative text, because - as we have already told you - this text that is proposed to us Citizens is insufficient in substance, clearly improveable in forms and, of course, entrepreneurship in terms of autonomous competences. It is insufficient because if a law is needed that guarantees universal coverage to the most vulnerable people in society, it must be exactly that, universal, i.e. 365 days a year, 24 hours, anywhere, including the home if you wish, and of course for all people who need it. And this, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, is called public resources. As we also said, supporting the People's Party Government's cut-off policy is not the best way to start putting public resources, because the role holds everything together, but then we have to develop what is written. I will give two illustrative examples: Catalonia and La Rioja. Both have the best coverage of our country in palliatives and without having a specific law to the effect, like others; resources and political will is what they have, and that is what we also want to guarantee with our proposal. The citizens' text is clearly better in the forms, and I am not going to abound in this because we have already explained it enough in the previous debate; that short glue is not the best way to bring a solvent text to the House and, of course, at least, lack of care in the autonomic competences, an issue that we also seek to resolve with this amendment to the totality that we bring to you as a proposal. Beyond the text of Citizens we have amended, we cannot fail to address the Socialist Party, which cannot explain why it is now voting against the process of a law of euthanasia. We have offered them to jointly present the initiative and no one to capitalize on this struggle; to accept those amendments which, without touching the essentials, made it easier for them to vote for it; and also, and above all, we renounce to include among the criteria for demanding euthanasia psychic suffering. I assure you and assure you that this resignation has been very painful for the Members who have prepared it and for the Confederal Group in general, and I do not want to tell you about the civil society associations that have been demanding it for years. Despite our efforts and despite the fact that you have approved the decriminalization of euthanasia at your congress, less than a month ago, you again veto the possibility of this law. The reality is that you want to present it alone; and the reality is that you are going to do it in the quiet of knowing that we are going to vote for you, and we are going to do it because you know that we are not like you and we are not going to put the interests of the group before the interests of the most vulnerable society. The PSOE, throughout democratic history, has been at the side of the people who fought to bring divorce, to bring abortion, to bring gay marriage and, now, we do not explain ourselves very well - the less their voters must be doing - on which side of history they want to place themselves. They have left decades of struggle for dignified death on the road, simply for putting on a medal. We leave with the bitter taste of the bad policy that we see today, which is going to prevent us from admitting a law of euthanasia, but we take the conviction and the tranquillity of knowing that we have always been on the right side of history, on the side of the struggle for civil rights. Just to finish, because time prevents me, I would like to finish the verses of a very great poet who knew very closely the pain, Juan Gelman: 'If I were given to choose, I would choose / this love with which I hate, / this hope that eats desperate bread.' Because 'here it is, gentlemen, that we play death'. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u31	Mrs Sibina Camps has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u32	Law on Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of the Person in the Final Process of His Life: Rights, Guarantees, Dignity of the Person in the Final Process of His Life. For there, gentlemen of Citizens, they have been right with the title and are therefore congratulated, because it speaks of rights, guarantees, dignity of the person in the final process of their life, and that, gentlemen, is to speak of euthanasia, just what needs to be legislated and what is not legislated. The aim of this amendment to the whole is to legislate the right and guarantees of any person in the final process of his life to freely choose what he wants to do with his life, what he wants to do with his death, therefore, if he decides euthanasia, it is his right for dignity and because he has decided so. Then you say they're different things, we talk about different laws. This is not only said by you, lords of Citizens; it is also said by you, lords of the PSOE, who do not know what nail burning to justify their umpteenth turn, the umpteenth disappointment. Let's see, do you really believe that these are two different laws?, that we're not talking about the same thing?, that one goes on the one hand and another goes on the other?, that we're not up to it in legal knowledge?, that you have a super expert and that you're going to gather a group of experts after the summer to discuss? We've been called demagogues and ignorant in the media. All right, because they are going to have to call demagogues and ignorant the gentlemen and ladies who in 2014 in the Quebec Parliament, in the National Assembly of Quebec, passed a law in whose title - listen well -, Law on End-of-Life Care, were of course included palliative care and euthanasia. Ignorant and demagogues are the ladies and gentlemen of the Quebec Parliament. [[It shows a writing addressing the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.-Applause]] And they will also have to call demagogues and ignorant men and women who in 2009 - listen carefully - in the Luxembourg Parliament passed a law entitled: Legislation regulating palliative care, as well as euthanasia and suicide assistance. Look where, what demagogues and how ignorant these Members of the Luxembourg Parliament are if they legislated both in the same law. Look where it is! [[It shows another writing addressing the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.-Applause]] Another argument, ladies and gentlemen, which is not supported and which has been echoed these months on both sides, that of Citizens and that of PSOE, is that it cannot be legislated for extreme cases, that it cannot be legislated for limit cases. Aren't we talking about that? Aren't we talking about that? The normality of applying a law of euthanasia are extreme cases in a person's life, or maybe, I wonder, is that people are asking euthanasia for a headache? Please be serious, have a little more rigour. Euthanasia is always for extreme cases in which a person can no longer live. And don't tell me, ladies and gentlemen, this is demagogy, because this is not demagogy, this is pure and hard reality. How is this law not going to be to legislate extreme cases? Then we wouldn't be talking about any of this. I wish we didn't have to talk about any of this, because it's just for this reason that society is asking us, by a crushing majority, to legislate euthanasia at once. So many years in your seats, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you have made them move away from reality, from society. [[Several Members: No]] Yeah, they've moved away on this subject. You do not listen to citizens, you do not listen to 91% of your voters who are in favour of legalizing the law of euthanasia. They had to have their congress. Perfect, fantastic, they have already had it a few days ago, and, surprise, finally!, well, they approve decriminalizing euthanasia immediately and publish euphoric tweets, announcing their bravery with their position in favor of decriminalizing euthanasia. [[Shows another writing addressing the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Here Mr Fernández, without going any further, says: A courageous and necessary step in favour of the regulation of euthanasia. Between the discussion of the consideration of the law of euthanasia and the discussion of the consideration of the law of the rights and guarantees of the person in the final process of his life, it was only seven days. In these seven days, José Antonio Arrabal, a desperate sick man, was taken away. Seven days. Here today I bring you one more case than you say extreme, of which you say there is no need to legislate from this case. He sends us a voice audio Estibalitz Chamorro Ortigosa, sister of Larraitz Chamorro Ortigosa, a forty-one-year-old woman with ALS for fourteen years. I'm gonna try and get her to listen. If not, I'll read it. [[Close the phone to the microphone and you listen: Hello. My name is Estibalitz Ortigosa Chamorro, and then I'm going to put a voice to the words of Larraitz Ortigosa Chamorro...]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u33	Your Honor, the rostrum is to listen to the speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u34	Thank you, President, I'm sorry. I'm going to read it. Words by Larraitz Chamorro Ortigosa: I address those people who are not right now, for whatever reasons, to decriminalize euthanasia. It is very sad and of very little humanity to know that there are people like me, sick of ALS, in full psychic faculties and without any movement from neck to neck, suffering a daily calvary, and that those who have the power to help us by voting for euthanasia, and above others to that suffering, have the dare to say that it will be done later, that is not the time. I just want you to know that what is ahead for you to me are many days of pain, agony, choking, tears and suffering. I hope that none of your loved ones will be affected by a situation like mine, since they will never be able to forgive that act of little humanity, such as not having voted today and now in favour of decriminalizing euthanasia. I believe that all this is a war between you, the politicians, without thinking humanly about us, the sick. That's where your consciences are, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u35	Thank you very much. It has requested the use of the turn against the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor for this.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u36	Don't worry if you see me with all these papers, it's not a speech to read, it's just a test. [[Show a folder with papers]] I will faithfully follow the recommendations of St. Paul's last epistle to the congressmen about making an unread speech with notes. [[Applauds]] Look at you, you are doing here an unknown exercise in parliamentary filibusterism to this day. You are trying, with an amendment to the whole, to collate a bill that has already been tabled in this House and voted on, and you are doing so only three months later. This was not known in the history of Spanish parliamentarianism. You've done what my mother did with the egg. Since I didn't like the egg, I wrapped it in bechamel and grated bread and said it was a croquette. This is what you have done with this proposal. What bechamel did they throw at this? You speak of it as a law of rights and guarantees. You dedicate exactly two articles to the rights where we dedicate nine, a page where we dedicate seven. You devote exactly two articles to guarantees, which do not reach a page, where we dedicate six. And to the sanctions you send them with an additional provision, while we dedicate a title, five articles, almost two pages. This is what rights and guarantees matter to you. [[Applauds]] However, you, on the day of the exaltation of pedantry that was the motion of censure, made us another recommendation: that we not quote things that we would not have read. Here are the CIS reports and The Economist's report that you quote. [[Show folder with papers again]] I don't know how many of you have read them, I've taken the trouble to read them. [[Applauds]] One of the CIS reports they quote, 2011 - I don't know if you know it - is a health barometer in which there is only one question. The question is: Do you agree that the right to dignified death is regulated by law? And with the answer to that question you draw the conclusion that everyone agrees with what you propose, that it is a law of euthanasia and assisted suicide, but not in all cases, because the other report you quote from the CIS is entitled as follows: Attention to patients with terminal illness; and that is what our law deals with. Our law tries to use sedation in cases of terminally ill patients, but you skip it olympically in your proposal and include non-terminal patients; you skip it olympically and try to deceive the whole House and the whole country with a speech that is not subject to your reports. [[Applauds]] But I will tell you more, I have read the report made by the intelligence unit of The Economist, a unit that I would recommend to you to create your party as soon as possible, which says that our country is at the tail of the OECD countries in palliative care and in attention to the end of life. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] That is why we need a law that guarantees such care and guarantees these rights. It is important to talk to experts and read the reports, it is true that it is important, but there are some more important things. It is important not to speak only with experts who always agree with us and with the people who always agree with us, because I have seen nothing more sectarian than to prepare a law only with the supporters of your opinion. It is also important to take care of patient associations. We have met with the Patient Platform, the Spanish Cancer Association, the Spanish Association of Patients with Amyotrophic Side Sclerosis and the Spanish Association of Patients with Alzheimer. I don't know how many of those patient associations have come together, I'm afraid none. I'm afraid you only do one thing, which is to use personal cases in the most demagogic way possible. The truth is that there are times when it is blushing to hear from this rostrum some things. You have mentioned a specific case today. Look, that particular case you mentioned is a patient who has been struggling for months to recognize a right that is in article 11 of our law, the right to palliative sedation in cases of irreversible and terminal illness whose symptoms are not controlled. That right is in our law, it is in our article 11, because what the patient is trying to do is to use palliative sedation, terminal sedation in a case that is indicated, that is in the law and that is not recognized. That is why this law is necessary; it is necessary not only for it to be recognized, but for the one who does not place a patient in that situation to be punished. And that's what we're talking about, sedation in terminally ill people, and not a law of euthanasia and assisted suicide for non-terminal patients, as you say. I'll tell you something else. We also talk to patients with lateral sclerosis. The other day we spoke to one of them, whose name is Pepe, and he said to me, "Do you know what I'm saying to you?" That this law that you have made to me serves me for nothing - so he told me -. You know why? Because you tell me that you can choose, that you can choose to have a support treatment or not and that I decide, but do you know what happens? That I won't be able to decide, because the day I get the time I don't have assistants, I don't have money and I don't have a residence. Do you know what's on me? It's up to me to die, but not because I chose it, but because I don't have the necessary support. That's what we're talking about in this law too, not just how palliative sedation is regulated. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of Podemos, I recommend one thing: get off the bus and mix with the people. People are not yours or ours; people are the people who suffer, they are the patients, they are the citizens, they are neither yours nor ours. Mix with them and get out of there. Parliament is not alone in making pedantic speeches, making appointments and displaying t-shirts, carnations or asparagus. They don't pay us for that! We are paid to solve the problems of our citizens, so that their life - and in this case their death - is a little easier after our passage through the legislature. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of Podemos, today we came here to talk about rights and guarantees at the end of life, but do you know what you always come to here? Same thing, to talk about you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u37	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Sibina Camps.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u38	Mr Igea, I would not like to devote my speech to telling only things to you, but it is that you have us accustomed to your master classes, to tell us every day in the commissions and here, in the rostrum, that you are the one who knows most about everything, that we are pedants and all that stuff. Your jokes, for example, today, speaking of dignified death and euthanasia, in reference to what you have said about croquettes - you will see what you have said - seem to me to be quite displeasure and very low-level, but, as I have said, I will not go down to your prepotent mud. I'll tell you two things. Yesterday, reading an interview that you were given, I deduced what I was going to say in this rostrum and I wasn't wrong. You said in the interview that we were trying to get our law into yours. Mr. Igea, what you call our law is not our law, but the law of twenty experts who drafted it, who were working with us in debate. It is, therefore, the law of all these people and it is to all these people whom he calls ignorant and pedantic: to professors and to the Borja Institute of Bioethics. Let him look at it a little, because this law, as you will understand, I have not written it from day to day. And what you call your law, Mr. Igea - I'll tell you clearly - is not your law either. Your law is a short and embarrassing stick - so I say and so it is, you can look for it in Google, ladies and gentlemen - of different autonomous laws that make sense there, but not here. He's even made a short and sticky Argentine law. That's right; embarrassingly short and sticky is his law. [[Applauds]] Likewise, with some condescension, Mr Igea, was pleased that we had learned something. Always teaching us lessons. How lucky we have him here! Mr. Igea, thank you so much for learning so much from you... [[Applauds]] He is very pleased that we have made some changes to the alternative proposal. Look, Mr Igea, what you always conceive of as giving us a master class, we, our Confederal Group, conceive of it as a parliamentary debate, and a parliamentary debate serves to bring us closer or away positions, in no case is it a master class. Finally, I would like to stress one very important thing that you have spoken about and in which you are not right; that is what I am telling you. What slows the attention to the suffering of people who are asking for palliative care and do not reach them is not that there is no law, Mr Igea, you know it; you know that this is not a matter of legislation, but of resources that are not given in these cases and of funds and efforts that do not arrive. Review all of you, the whole Chamber, who support governments that do not allocate resources to these cases. I give you a clue: Andalusia and Madrid are the least spent on the health of its inhabitants; Andalusia of the PSOE and the Community of Madrid of the PP with the invaluable support of the crutch of Citizens. Another thing that delays this - that is so, Mr Igea, and you know it too; I do not understand how you came out here without knowing this, but I explain it to you - are the infinite extensions requested by different parties to the amendments to this law. We did our work and put forward an alternative proposal to his law in time; so much so that the time had come to set the agenda and it had been redacted because we had registered it for a long time. [[The lady]] Finally, Mr Igea, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, ladies and gentlemen, we will have a law of euthanasia. We'll have it sooner than later. It will be this, it will be the one that is coming from the Parliament of Catalonia or it will be the law that will now present and register the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but we will have it, and, as my colleague Eva García Sempere has said, every day we will each know on which side history puts us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs Sibina Camps. Mr Igea Arisketa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u40	You said I used an expression of displeasure. It is a displeasure to use the suffering and the name of a sick person to do what you have done. That's bad taste. Do you know why it's bad taste? Because none of you know today what is the fate of the patients you have spoken of. You know what? Some of them do, I do. Yesterday I spoke with Luis' brother, with Antonio; with him I was talking yesterday, and yes I know it and you don't know it. You know what I know? That this man has the right to sedation and is entitled by law. It doesn't come true, you know why? Because they do not demand it, because there are no guarantees, because there is no penalty. That is why our law is necessary. That's bad taste. You've told me I've come down to the pretentious mud. God help us! Talk about prepotence from your group! Fuck you! Get the fuck out of here and talk about prepotence! [[Applauds]] You, who give lessons to people about what you can or can't talk about, who you can quote and who you can't quote, you talk about prepotence? You have to have a lot of relief and little blush. You also talk about the budget, whether we have dedicated it or not. In this legislature we have achieved an additional EUR 17 billion for health in Spain; EUR 17 billion. We got it, you know why? Because we voted on the budgets. You know why? Because we are responsible, because we by sectarianism were not going to leave our patients and our system with 17 billion euros less. However, you, who are so concerned about patients and people, were willing to leave this country with 17 billion euros less for health. That's what you do. [[Applauds]] You said we made a short and sticky. Yes, we have made a short and sticky and summarized the legislation that existed in Spain, because, among other things, we thought it was something that had to be done to make legislation that covered all Spaniards equally. The last law is that of the Community of Madrid, very similar to it, adopted with its vote, adopted unanimously. It is the same short and sticky, but what is worth in Madrid is not worth in the national Parliament. Why? Because, I insist, the only thing that interests you are yourselves. You are a panda of sectarians who do not take into account the suffering of the people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Igea Arisketa. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Very briefly I will reproduce some general ideas which I already outlined on the day that we discussed this same initiative in the debate under consideration. The first is that we do not believe that a purported right of personal self-determination can do everything, that is, that one has the right to decide everything and that that is an absolute right, without limits, because if we really talk about a right we should agree and agree among all many things about it, such as the scope, its limits and sanctions to those who violate them, abuse them or act in fraud of law, especially when, as in this case, the very exercise of this purported right imposes correlative duties and guarantees on both the system and the professionals who serve us. The second idea, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are obliged to improve people's living conditions. If we decided that the dignity of people is in the conditions in which we live and not in the person itself, we could conclude that some lives are not worthy of being lived and therefore not worthy of being protected or loved, and that, in our view, is very dangerous, because dignity is in people, not in the conditions, and the dignity of people is something inalienable and irrefutable. The third idea is that, in our view, we should not pass a law adapting it to the exception and not, as would be rigorous, to the general rule. That would be a mistake. We do not agree to make the extreme case the general rule. The fourth idea, as I said at the beginning, is that we do not believe that there is a human right to harm or to renounce freedom or to self-mutilate or die or to help commit suicide. The fifth, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are in favour of the fact that, beyond considering accompaniment as a guarantee of the health system or as a duty of professionals, it should be regarded as a right, a genuine right of individuals. Moreover, I give you this reflection. If there was a right to be accompanied at the end of life, which seems good to us, why not promote that same right, as well as a guarantee of the system as well as a duty of professionals, to help live, to defend life, to help all those mothers who think that abortion is the best way out of an unwanted pregnancy? Think about it. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. In any case, we, with our votes and our amendments, will try to ensure that this procedure is not used to regulate mild euthanasia, covert euthanasia or low-intensity euthanasia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Salvador Armendáriz. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u44	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. On issues such as the one we are debating today, when we prioritize ideology, what we are doing is simplifying something that is very complex. None of us have the heritage of the values of this society, so this is neither left nor right, as we have often heard here. In fact, we may have discrepancies, but today's tone has discredited us all. Dignityful death is not a simple choice. As Pilar Rahola wrote in 2008, if we have the healthy goal of building a more just society, we cannot reduce to the misery of a programmatic slogan what is a deep debate about our social identity. And I am sure you will share with me, both Mrs Sibina and Mr Igea, that in addition to legislating what is necessary is to exercise and put into practice the political will, a political will that sometimes hides with the excuse of the law. In Catalonia we are pioneers in legislating on patients' rights and on the development of palliatives, and now, in the Parliament of Catalonia, a proposal is being drafted from the consensus, both social and political, with a really serene debate. This proposal is going to enter this House and we hope that they will take it into consideration in a positive way, that they will accept it, assessing that its basis is above all that calm, serene and rigorous debate prior to it and also appreciating that final consensus. From the Democratic Party - as my colleague Lourdes Ciuro has already told you - we will certainly defend the proposal for consensus that comes from the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] And I end by sharing with you part of point 5 of the Charter of Rights and Deures of the citizenry in relation to the health and health care of Catalonia, a solid text, with a considerable depth burden; a text that enjoys the support of the Catalan institutions, a text that I invite all parties to use. It is a text that in Catalan is very nice, but that I will translate to the Spanish: The person has the right to live the process that results until the end of life according to his perception of dignity. When situations of unbearable suffering occur and the person, in full possession of his or her powers to decide, expresses the desire to die and asks for help in doing so, has the right to receive respectful treatment and to be given a response proportional to the intensity of this suffering. Similarly, the person has the right to be provided with the necessary cures and treatments by health professionals to facilitate a dignified and painless death, always within the existing legal framework. Let us make the existing legal framework cover the content of this text, perhaps also making, for example, a law on the availability of life itself. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras i Camero. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u46	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. A few months ago, when we first discussed the subject that brings us today, I began my speech with the following questions. Is it ethically acceptable to help a person who wishes to die because of his tremendous suffering? Who is it to establish what a worthy death is? Is the prolongation of life always a good or is it sometimes to give in to other medical or human considerations? Can life be extended at any cost? Is therapeutic obstinacy justifiable, or what is the same, is it ethically acceptable to reduce therapeutic effort in certain situations and to let a person die? Does health care personnel have an obligation to be subject to the will of the patient even if he or she contradicts his or her professional judgement? In the end, a great question arises, which for centuries the human being has tried to answer from the field of science, religion or philosophy: Who is the owner of our lives? So, who owns our death? Under this premise and from the very best of political will, we have each tried to respond and have reached today's debate. We can bring in an almost identical, very similar, law proposal, basically the same - and I understand it, because one does not change in two months of appearance, although it is not precisely the parliamentary fair play to the use to bring, as has been mentioned, as an amendment of the whole something that has already come at the time - a proposal that did not prosper but that we voted in favour because we believe that it should be dealt with. Later, Citizens brought another, which is supposed to be the alternative to which we are discussing today - in our opinion much less novel - which intended to legislate what is already legislated in all the autonomous communities and which is progressing very little, a kind of patchwork that we do not support, among other matters by invading competences and, as I said, because it did not bring much more than it already exists. It seems that the Socialist Party wants to register another law. Here it seems that the important thing is who is the author, who leaves the signature, but not only in this, in other things that we are living and developing these days is also seeing much that. Finally, the Government. What's the government doing? What's the PP doing? Looks like little or nothing. Moreover, he is neither expected nor expected in this matter. In any case - I said it in my previous speech - if there is an issue that requires debate, calm, subcommission, presentation, speeches, appearances, etc., in this House, it is this and not so many others that we have created as churros, as if we were doing nothing here. Today we are dealing with the amendment of the whole of Podemos, which says that it is not the same, that things have changed. They have said what they have been, but the reasons why they have changed have not been made very clear, although we can see them. It says in its preamble what it is about, what the reasons for this law are and what its contents are; it talks about how we are getting older today, living longer, but sometimes we have more dependence, causing more suffering, etc., and that means that we have to take certain measures that we didn't have to consider before. The PNV has made clear its position to deal in depth and without limits with this issue, to discuss it and to analyse it without any fear or prejudice, and we must do so. We live in an open and advanced society, prepared to deal with and resolve these kinds of situations with total normality. We are politically responsible and also representatives - in our case - of an aconfessional, humanist, participatory, pluralist and open to progress party, and I suppose many others also share those criteria. All the advance movements of civilization that improve the quality of life of people are our goal. We therefore consider it necessary and opportune to discuss openly these issues that affect and will affect each and every one of us, establishing the principles, criteria and conditions for ensuring adequate attention from the Administration during the end-of-life process. We have dealt with this issue, we have even made a kind of presentation as a party in which we made clear the position of the PNV in this matter, and we have also positioned ourselves in the Basque Parliament; both are public texts that can be seen, so here we are not pulling rabbits out of jokes. In the Basque Parliament, together with the Socialist Party and Bildu, we adopted a GNP in which we urged to amend article 143 of the Criminal Code in order to decriminalize assisted suicide. Above all, we understand that society is aware of this challenge and that for this it is interesting that we start from one text, which can be this or another, but we have to deal with it and discuss it. Because we understand that the final process of life must be attended to in an integral and integrated way, that all people have the right to comprehensive palliative care, that the non-initiation or withdrawal of any treatment is even a right of the patient and that, since assisted medical death deserves a reprimand today in States, we must promote in society a process of deliberation on their morality in view of their decriminalization. We consider assisted suicide a medical practice by which the intellectual means or essential materials are provided so that someone can end their life effectively when they wish. For this purpose, the patient, in addition to suffering from an irreversible disease that causes suffering that feels unacceptable and that has not been mitigated by other means, must have certain conditions. It is therefore clear that the problem here is not what we want, because from different perspectives I think we all understand it, but how we achieve it. That is the issue on which we all have to agree, how to make suffering disappear, to make a dignified death exist, to keep the patient's dignity, etc. I don't have time. Some of these issues are already in force and others need to be discussed, but this is a key element. We're all looking for the good of whoever's in the trance of dying, I don't doubt it at all. All of us here wish that the dignity of the person is guaranteed, no one wants empty suffering. For someone who lives to ask death is that life is no longer, because when life is wonderful it is everything, but when it is not, as the poet José Hierro said, it can be nothing. Compassion is a feeling that does not appear in any penal code or legislative text, but the moral and ethical code of each person has a space, as empathy does. We will support the amendment as a whole, although not everything as it appears in the text likes us and is shared and accepted by us, but if I succeed in passing this procedure, which gives me the feeling that it is not going to do so, we would amend it to reach a consensus. I hope, in any case, that this debate will not end here and that we will face this problem with sincerity, charity and clarity. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea Uresti. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u48	Good morning, deputies, deputies, president. In an Epicurus paraphrase, Antonio Machado said: 'Death is something we should not fear because, while we are, death is not and, when death is, we are not'. What was simple for Antonio Machado is much more complicated for humans. If we talk about life, death, we talk about values, morals and freedom. Values do not exist in abstract, they are historically determined, linked to the cultures, individuals and circumstances they face. We cannot forget, if we talk about this subject, that the Spanish State has been, and is resisting to cease being, a Catholic or, rather, national Catholic State, and has made its moral precepts legal basis. They are still precepts in our legal system; article 143.4 of the Criminal Code is an example, an obsolete and distorting element of personal freedom. For Esquerra Republicana of Catalonia, the proposal for a law that we would have to discuss today is the proposal for an organic law presented to us by Marta Sibina, who talked about the regulation of euthanasia and assisted suicide, understood these concepts as the full exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms to face how we want to live life and how we want death to be at the end of our life. That is why we will vote in favour of the amendment to the whole of Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. As in this Chamber Quevedo is mentioned more than once - I mean the 17th century -, I will contribute to this with a quote: 'It is better to die than to live dead. He wants to rest his death.' Many were moved by Marta's defense of the proposal and today too. Francisco Igea said that no one has the exclusive of compassion, and he is right; neither can anyone have the exclusive of morality and impose it on others by preventing the exercise of their freedom. [[Applauds]] I have always rejected the concept of moral superiority. In the sphere of the left, where I have always unfolded, too many times it falls into it, but, seeing some speeches, they are not only the left. My experience shows me that the values, the compassion between them, are not on one side or on one party, but on the people and, in our opinion, when the CIS tells us about 84% of people who are in favour of regulating this fact - varied readings can always be done -, to a greater or lesser extent, are the voters of all the Members who are here, of all of us. That is why certain autonomous parliaments are calling on this Congress to regulate euthanasia, because its constitutional limits do not allow it and, if not, some would have already regulated it. The Catalonian Parliament, as has been said here, has passed a bill to make it possible for this Congress to do what is relevant. Mr. Igea, as you have been reminded, your proposal for a law on guarantees and rights of the dignity of the person before the final process of life is legally unnecessary in many communities and even invades competences. The best thing that could happen, Mr Igea, is for the amendment to be accepted as a whole. You would do what you want and more, and therefore we would all win, even most of your voters. It depends on much of the PSOE. Will they do what the parliamentarians of their autonomies propose or leave it for later? As a poem by Martí i Pol... [[Continue your speech in Catalan]] Translation: Now it's tomorrow. It does not heat yesterday's fire / nor today's fire and we will have to make a new fire. / From the great silence until now everything that moves / moves with the will to become. Since I have a little time left, I will make a confidence, even make a wish: I would like to see a parliamentary system in which the vote is not taken to plenary, which we could convince ourselves and convince ourselves, where the coherence of every congressman with what he thinks is decisive. It's a wish. A better law is possible, do not wait until tomorrow to build what was necessary yesterday. Freedom and the Republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz Serra. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u50	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed in April the consideration of this proposal for a law on the rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person before the final process of his life of the Citizens' Group and, on the other hand, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podem-En Marea presented a proposal for an organic law on decriminalization of euthanasia, which was debated on 21 March and was not accepted. Today we see ourselves again debating the proposal of Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea with a new modality: an amendment to the entire text of the citizens' bill with an alternative text, text that is, in short, very similar to the one discussed in March. These are two issues so different that, no matter how much we try to cheat, we are not going to get to a good place. Is it necessary to regulate the rights of the individual in the final process of his or her life? Yeah. Is it necessary to regulate euthanasia in our country? Yeah, too. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us do things right, with a calm debate and involving the citizens who demand it, the professionals and all the groups in our initiatives. Lying isn't healthy, it's unhealthy. Although there would be unanimity today to approve his proposal, a law that decriminalizes euthanasia would not be passed, as Mr Garzón has been well charged with disseminating his presence - he will be somewhere else; after having put so much emphasis he is not in the debate -. Mrs. García Sempere, I very much appreciate your intervention without raising the tone of your voice, and, Mrs. Sibina, not by raising the tone of your voice you are more right and not by bragging with more papers in your hand you are more right, but lessons, the just. If you present an amendment to the whole with an alternative text, do not say that you can integrate two texts because it is not true. Do not cheat when you have lost a vote and do not bring back the text of the law on the regulation of euthanasia disguised as an alternative text of a law of dignified death. Of course, it will not be I who gives advice or I who tells them that every job is eager. One text cannot replace another when they speak of different topics. They are two complementary laws, important and necessary, but they are two different laws. Moreover, the regulation of euthanasia, as you put it, requires an organic law which, in any case, would be dealt with in parallel with that which today brings us to this debate, and we have always defended it by the socialists, before, during and after. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party - Mr Agirretxea, some dates have danced a little - indeed, it registered in February 2017 a draft law regulating the rights of the person before the final process of his life, and the object of this law must be to regulate the rights that, in relation to health and social care, correspond to the people at the end of his life and to ensure full respect for his free will. It is also proposed to regulate the obligations of health and social professionals who care for them and to determine the obligations of public administrations and health institutions - this had been forgotten - to ensure the proper exercise of these rights. That says the object of the law and the scope of application is both health and social. We certainly agree in many of the definitions included in the different texts: quality of life, informed consent, prior instruction document, palliative care, therapeutic and diagnostic obstinacy, palliative sedation. I'm sure we agree a lot more than we disagree. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, both the citizens' text and ours are texts that can be discussed, and we are prepared to table amendments and improve it. Euthanasia, however, is a related but radically different issue, as it is not a strictly medical-health issue, but a matter of civil liberties. And, yes, Members of the United Left, we are also ready to discuss and reach agreements to pass a law that decriminalizes euthanasia in our country, because most citizens no longer have any reservations about euthanasia and have a more guaranteed right. Nor does the Socialist Party have any reason to reject the debate - none -, to do joint work and to make a good law. And we are convinced - I insist, yes, very convinced - that euthanasia needs to be regulated and decriminalized in our country with a guaranteed organic law for citizens, for jurists and for health and social professionals; a law that respects the legal order and the wishes of everyone. In a few weeks - you have already said it in the media and we have ratified it - the Socialist Group will bring to this House a proposal so that a law of euthanasia, the best law, can be processed, because we understand that it can be better. We have already analysed the gaps in other regulations and are prepared to do a job well done. I propose that we can continue the processing of the law on the rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person before the final process of his life or, more abbreviatedly, as we are saying, a basic law of dignified death. Let us make amendments and adopt them as soon as possible, because we are already being demanded by citizens and professionals, this much-needed law. Because there can be no territorial differences in care and in the right to die decently, and there are. Only eight regional regulations have been adopted, two in progress, not all autonomous communities have developed it. I also propose to all groups that are able to participate in the joint work of drafting a law regulating euthanasia and assisted suicide, because this debate is more complex and precise, of course, more social and professional consensus so that it does not raise any rejection, none. Socially it is a debate admitted by a large majority, we will not deny it, but we want it to be a law very consensual by all. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a professional doctor, many of you already know it, a head doctor as it used to be called, the issue is logically not for me; I have faced many times to attend to terminal patients, patients and their families, and I have never feared what could happen to me by making a decision, I did what I had to do. I'm done, President. My first death certificate when I started practicing was from Immaculada, a nine-year-old girl who died at her home with her parents. I've been with them to the end and I don't forget. Then many more came with the loneliness of making decisions in a village without great technological support, but I want the personal right to a dignified death to be above the will of a professional, no matter how good he intended. I was scared in his day, but the parents are still my friends. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs Martín González. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cortés Bureta.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating this morning a full amendment to a bill which was tabled a few months ago when in this House we are already discussing a proposal for a euthanasia bill which was rejected by 132 votes to 86, as well as the proposal to which the amendment is presented today, which was adopted by 315 votes in favour and only 5 against. Moreover, this morning - as I said - we find this amendment to the whole presented by a group that supported the text presented by Citizens, and they will certainly agree with me that it is an exercise of great parliamentary coherence to support a text or an initiative and then to amend it in its entirety by themselves. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u53	Excuse me, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I'm asking for a little silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u54	What we are pursuing is the amendment to the whole of the Confederal Group of the United States of America. We can try to bring together these two propositions, that of euthanasia and that of dignified death, and the argument that I have heard this morning is that they are two complementary things and that they should go together. Surely it is an exercise of innocence, but I understand that if they were really convinced of that argument, their first initiative would have contained both possibilities or two paths, both palliative care and euthanasia, and yet it was not so, with which, perhaps following in that exercise of innocence that I said it would not be so much their intention to unite those two things that are complementary, but to take advantage of the votes that the second initiative had to try to collate that of euthanasia, which they will not achieve. I think it is not going to work, the parliamentary groups are very clear what their positions are, they defended them from this rostrum in the debate on both initiatives and they have also said so this morning. I have had the opportunity to set the position of the People's Parliamentary Group in these two debates, we reject euthanasia, we support dignified death, and in this case it will be so; we are not going to support that amendment in its entirety because we understand that it does not coincide with the arguments we are trying to defend. I don't think it's welcome to make those mixes or that mix to carry out an initiative and it's not serious. I would be left with no choice but to go deeper and deeper into those arguments that I have already defended in these last two interventions. Especially when we were talking about euthanasia I made reference to the Constitution, I made reference to the Criminal Code, to international texts that do not include it, to judgments of the Constitutional Court or of European courts that do not include it. I could even argue that in the countries of our European environment - and the proponents know this - only three countries have regulated euthanasia, not the rest. However, I will stop at something which this morning has caused me, on the one hand, surprise and, on the other hand, sadness. I have listened carefully to the arguments exchanged both by the proponents of the initiative and by the proposers of the amendment as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, surprise, because they have put the associations and organisations with which they had met in order to make their initiatives or their amendments in full, and have even numbered a number of proposals. I don't have to express anything but surprise in the face of that. You, both groups, are new in this legislature - and in the past courtship - in this House, and believe me what I'm going to say to you: What did you think Congress was? How did they think we were acting the parliamentary groups we were here before? Listening to associations and organizations; we like to listen and we don't like what they tell us. With this, they will not abandon their approach to organizations and associations, because all the parliamentary groups present here have always worked like this and we continue to do so. [[Applauds]] We listen to those we like and those we don't, because it's the only way to legislate for all citizens. And it has also brought me sadness. I had already seen it, and I believe that I made some reference in my speech in previous debates, because again I hear how personal testimonies are referred from this rostrum and appointed concrete people with specific cases, I do not know if to presume that there is greater sensitivity, greater compassion or greater consciousness. Look, ladies and gentlemen, in the People's Parliamentary Group absolutely all your Members have personal and family circumstances; they have friends, they have acquaintances, and all of them - and I myself - could bring to this rostrum as sensitive testimonies as those you bring, but that is not fair and I do not think it is serious to try to seek a vote by referring to that moral superiority to which some Member who preceded me in the use of the floor referred. [[Applauds]] No, ladies and gentlemen, there is no moral superiority, no more compassion, no more awareness because there are particular and specific cases, because, as I say to you, you do not know me, you do not know the Members of the People's Party, you do not know the Members of other groups, and believe me that we could all present in this rostrum testimonies such as those you have brought. It's curious. The term euthanasia - and you know it - in its etymological sense comes from the Greek and means good death. One of the first references that I have found in a classic text that refers to euthanasia says: 'I think that the doctor should not only restore health, but mitigate pain, so when it leads to cure as when it is useful to a smooth transit to death'. I believe that this definition is much closer to palliative care than we now understand euthanasia, with which it seems that the original meaning has been lost. We, from the People's Parliamentary Group, said this in the debate on the Citizens' initiative, we repeat it again and we will not tire of repeating it: let us all work together to improve palliative care. I also said this in that procedure: we do not share one hundred percent of the text of the Citizens' Initiative, but we will use the amendment phase to discuss and discuss some of the points that we believe can be improved, but an initiative like this, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support it. I'm done, Madam President. We truly believe that palliative care is necessary, that it should be considered a patient's right, and not a privilege, and we believe that it is the best way to achieve the development of patients' rights and autonomy, to guarantee comprehensive and quality care during the final process of life in order for people with advanced and terminal diseases to die dignifiedly. That dignity, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it means dying without physical or spiritual suffering, accompanied by loved ones. To die well informed if desired, being able to reject medical treatments that are not desired or that only prolong life in a useless way. In short, Madam President - and I finish - die well; die in time; die asleep, if you want; die in peace. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cortés Bureta. [[Mrs Sibina asks for the floor]] Yes, Mrs Sibina.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u56	President, I would like to take the floor in Rule 71.3 to request that you withdraw from the Journal of Sessions...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u57	I'm sorry, I haven't given you the floor yet. Literally, what do you mean?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u58	I refer to the statement made by Mr Igea: 'You are a panda of sectarians', which I believe affects the dignity of my group. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs Sibina. Mr. Igea. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, a little silence. Mr. Igea, do you withdraw that allusion to which Mrs. Sibina refers?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u60	Yeah, no problem at all. We do not have as sensitive skin as some Members. If it's a problem, I'll take it off. But I'd like them to be a little equidistant.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Igea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u62	We shall now proceed to the debate on the proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies for the regulation of interest groups. To this proposal of law has been presented an amendment to the whole, of alternative text, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. In defence of the amendment tabled, Mrs Elizo Serrano has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, I'm asking for a little silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u63	Good morning. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I would like to thank all and all the teams of people, civil society organisations, institutional relations and transparency organisations who have supported us and who have participated directly in the elaboration of this proposal for an alternative text. It is not possible to reflect social needs and legislative initiatives without the active participation of the social actors concerned. We believe that the permeability of institutions is part of the strengthening of the legislative process to combat opacities that fuel corruption. The initial intention of this reform of the Rules of Procedure is to take a step forward to improve the transparency and quality of our laws and democracy. However, the proposal, as has been put forward by the Group of the European People's Party, brings, in our view, many shortcomings, not only in form but also in substance. This reform is an opportunity to strengthen the confidence of citizens in the legislative process and, at the same time, to be able to strengthen our own legitimacy as a House. In seeking to establish tools for citizen participation, the elaboration of laws must be based on knowledge of social demands. These amendments are based on this collaboration and on our group's attempt to establish mechanisms to improve the legislative technique, citizen participation, to avoid pressure on legislators and, in turn, to establish reliable mechanisms to control this influence. This reform must reconcile the right of participation, the demands for transparency on the part of citizens, guarantees of equal opportunities and the non-distortion of competition for the preservation of the general interest. Democracy in our country is based both on the representation and direct participation of citizens in public affairs. It is thus understood that democracy cannot be summed up in voting every four years. The initial proposal submitted by the People's Party includes four key points that articulate the reform: definition of the interest group or lobby, the creation of a register, the code of conduct and a body responsible for monitoring the register. We have added measures of democratic inclusion and transparency such as the citizen's hearing, the publicity of the work agendas of Members of Parliament or the creation of a legislative footprint report that clearly shows the changes that have been undergoing legislation throughout the legislative process. The very definition of interest groups is the starting point of this reform. In our proposal we have expanded it by proposing a more inclusive text, including forms of indirect influence and by scope of application. By maintaining the initial idea of a register, we have sought to strengthen it by opening up public use as an electronic format; this would make it easier for interest groups to register and make it more accessible to citizens, thereby enhancing transparency. At the same time, as several groups mentioned in their interventions in March, we have expanded the information that interest groups should provide to this register, such as the budget they have to carry out their functions or the number of people working to achieve certain purposes. Knowing that it is essential to avoid the multiplicity of registers throughout the Spanish territory, we have also left the door open for other administrations to join the register. With regard to the code of conduct, we propose that the code of conduct be binding because, as was proposed by the People's Party, there was no obligation to comply with it, and compliance with the code was at the discretion of the lobbyist or the deputy. Here we have included not only the basic topics of conduct for representatives of sovereignty but also the rights that registration entails for registered interest groups. In the proposal of the People's Party the powers of regulation and control of the activities of interest groups are entrusted to the Presidency of Congress with the support of the Secretary General. We propose to create the figure of a commissioner of the common register; we propose this figure as an independent body of any political line to ensure participation in an orderly and transparent way in the House. This Commissioner would be the supervisor of the application of the transparency rules established for the proper articulation between the interest groups and the members of this House. We have also added a key element for us, which has been a demand from several of the political groups and which is essential to clarify the legislative process: the legislative footprint through the preparation of a report that will have to reflect the normative evolution of the law from its first format accepted to its final adoption. It shall contain the documents in which Members shall support themselves in making amendments and amendments which shall in turn be published on their agendas. The legislative footprint must also reflect the votes of the initiatives in the Commission, which is why we intend to give greater visibility to the traceability of the law. All the actors with whom we have met to raise this amendment to the Rules of Procedure have agreed that the publication of work agendas is a key point in giving greater transparency to lobbying, but also to parliamentary activity. How to ensure the publicity of lobby activity through an internal House regulation? We believe that the best solution is to give transparency to the agendas of legislators. The agendas must be the primary instrument for the visibility of our work because we deeply believe that citizens have the right to know with whom their representatives meet and for what purpose. That is why we propose the obligation to publish the meetings with the interest groups and their work agendas. This, in turn, would make clear who is working on behalf of who's interests and would leave control of the performance of parliamentary activity to the hands of citizens. Article 23 of the Constitution establishes the right of citizens to participate in public affairs. From our political group, we believe that transparency and the principle of publicity are vital to fostering citizen participation. The measures we propose in this new text strengthen transparency mechanisms in parliamentary activity and, in turn, allow citizens to know the working meetings of legislators with interest groups. In this line we also include a mandatory disclosure clause for documents accompanying those meetings. However, transparency, traceability and public information are not sufficient for democratic control of the legislative process, participation is crucial in the formation of laws, and therefore we aim to ensure the contribution not only of companies, as has been done so far, but also of citizens and articulated civil society, as recognized in our Constitution. We cannot confuse, as has been done in the initial proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the action of interest groups with those of civil society. We are aware that while there are organised civil society groups, not all are able to articulate an interest group that can meet with legislators to express what effects a particular law can have on their activity; moreover, we could say that most civil society does not have the means or the time to intervene or move their needs, which causes social organizations once again to learn that a law has been passed when it is already too late. Article 105 of the Constitution stipulates that the law shall regulate the hearing of citizens. According to these premises, it is necessary to establish democratic control mechanisms to ensure that citizens are heard. We agree that the participation of interest groups is legitimate and necessary to improve democratic quality. However - as I mentioned earlier - we are aware that civil society is only organized into interest groups on very specific issues. We therefore introduce a point of direct involvement of civil society at its own request; we propose to open a period of between one and three weeks at a hearing in the Commission for those groups or persons who wish to present their views on the current initiative. This measure not only ensures citizen participation, but also facilitates discussion among interest groups and allows the actors directly involved in legislative action to be heard. Finally, we have introduced a regulatory review clause every five years so that we can assess the effectiveness of this proposal and thus improve and strengthen it through the experiences we are getting from its practice. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that this proposal is also an improvement and we are open to building together. That is why we ask you to support this text as a basis for building something more solid among all. We want to support a real and more plural openness to the political life of citizens and civil society. We believe that this proposal includes the vast majority of the demands we have heard from civil society, as well as the regulatory proposals that have passed through this House in previous legislatures. That is why we invite you to support this initiative and to make your contributions to create something more robust and solid. From here on, we are ready to work and continue to consolidate this reform. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Elizo Serrano. Mr Salvador Armendáriz, who will speak from the seat, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u65	Thank you, Madam President. We are going to reject this amendment as a whole and we are doing it, firstly, for one reason, coherence. The truth is that we, whenever this issue has been dealt with in the House, have bet that there was such a record of lobbies. In fact, I recall a motion for a resolution of a 2013 state of the nation debate in which, together with some other group, I think it was with Convergence i d'Unió, now PDeCAT, we introduced and asked that this register be established. Therefore, the first reason is a reason for consistency. We believe that it should be regulated; we agree that it should be regulated. If I were to ask the group, as I think it has interesting things in its alternative proposal, to fillet through amendments all those initiatives it seeks or the content it proposes for that registration, we will obviously take it into consideration. Secondly, it seems normal that this should be the case; there are already other institutions that have regulated it and, therefore, we have to see with some normality that we move forward in that area. I believe that, in addition, even selfishly, it suits us. Today we are the ones in this House, but today I have seen in a previous debate that someone was hurting Mr Garzón who was not there. Well, I'm sure he's meeting someone or doing some kind of management! It does not seem to me wrong that when people come who have interests in the laws that we can discuss and approve we know what we are doing; also that citizenship knows how difficult it is sometimes to draft a law when there are conflicting interests and, in any case, we must accept greater transparency, greater publicity, and gives me the feeling that, even that, it can be selfishly also good insofar as it shields us from any temptation. Today we reject the amendment as a whole, but in the future and in the subsequent parliamentary procedure, we will put forward amendments, we will then assess those which we can put forward, and if this reform of the Rules of Procedure opens up the possibility that we can improve it in other aspects that I believe are deficient, because we will also make our own amendments. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Salvador Armendáriz. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u67	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We thank this amendment to the whole that is being proposed by United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. That is right, we announce that we are going to reject the amendment to the whole by appreciating the effort of concreteness and development made by this initiative, considering that the articulated content of this proposal is going to serve us in the process of partial amendments to improve the text that we are now dealing with, but in the general philosophy of the alternative proposal that we may have, there are at least three issues on which we might disagree and which explain our opposition to this amendment to the whole. Firstly, there is excessive regulation, in excess of detail, of how lobbying should be articulated in this House, and we do not believe that this excessive regulation serves to improve the functioning of the system. It seems to us that sometimes more than regulating in detail in our legislation, what we need is to regulate clearly and to ensure that this legislation is implemented. Such detailed regulation is what it does to hinder the normal functioning of things. Secondly, there are some specific aspects of the measure that we do not just see as, for example, the creation of the Commissioner to control that of the lobbies. We would like to know more about the philosophy of the United Podemos colleagues and their allies to make that justification. We are in favour of the General Secretariat of Congress controlling this activity of the lobbies. Finally, the third reason is that the whole text is framed by an excessive distrust of the lobby's activity. It is clear - we said this in the non-legislative proposal that we advocate in the short term and in the debate on the consideration of this proposal by the People's Group - that the role of the lobby is an essential part of the functioning of democracy, that in any process of building public policy and the legislative norm all interest groups come to us, which expresses the dynamism of society itself and that a large part of the laws that we can do do so insofar as they respond to these economic and social realities that are being transferred to us. Therefore, we have that point of mistrust. However, in the text that we are dealing with proposed by the People's Party there are some aspects that coincide with those of the text that we have recorded by the Democratic Party. Our text, in some respects, goes beyond that of the People's Party. We are therefore going to put forward partial amendments during the procedure. We are also going to be inspired by the text of United We can incorporate new amendments and I hope that in the parliamentary process we can complete a good reform of the Rules of Procedure allowing us to recognize the work and presence of the lobbies in this House. I hope that consensus is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Legarda has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u69	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, President. We have now been debating a little over three months now the consideration of a proposal for a reform of the Regulation on interest groups or lobbies and we have put on the table the unreplaceable need to undertake its regulation after countless attempts in recent history. I pointed out in that debate that it was already a bad omen that during the constituent process it could not crystallize an amendment in the constitutional text in which today is article 105, by which it was intended to introduce a new paragraph, the fourth - which today would be point (d) - in which it was pointed out that an organic law will establish control and registration for interest groups acting on a permanent basis. However, it should be noted that the systematic location of article 105 in Title IV referred to standing before the Executive rather than before the Courts. This transposition in the constituent phase seems to have tarnished the future of this issue in this House, and so there have been numerous failed attempts in the years 1990, 1993, 2008, 2012, 2013 - when, by the way, we also pointed out that an opportunity was missed to incorporate this issue through amendments in the Transparency Act - and 2016. We are now in a new attempt, in 2017. We have already made progress in the debate on a number of shortcomings that we saw in the initiative, as the previous speaker on the floor also pointed out. We said that markets of influence do not focus on the legislative branch of political power, but do so primarily on the executive branch, including the entire public sector, which is generally more attractive to the interests of interest groups than the legislative branch. It is true that the Rules of this House, by constitutional mandate, by the mandate of article 72 of the Constitution, cannot regulate the lobbyism that is practiced with the Government and the General Administration in its public sector, but it is no less true that the Government could have referred a bill to regulate it in parallel with how the political party that supports it in this House has done it for this purpose. Despite this serious defect and criticism of the Government for its inactivity, this must not mean that the parliamentary group of the Basque Nationalist Party supports the amendment to the whole of Podemos, which seeks to remedy that deficiency since the Rules of Procedure of this House, which is, in our view, unconstitutional, as I have already pointed out and justified. On the other hand, and in its day, in the debate to take account of this proposal, we also highlighted some other shortcomings, such as the failure to establish any code of conduct for parliamentarians and their support staff in their relationship with lobbyism and lobbyists. However, this lack cannot be solved either, as we believe is done in the amendment to the whole, by establishing the same code of conduct for lobbyists and the elected ones, pointing out with regard to the latter that their non-compliance will lead to the sanction, consisting in the reduction or freezing of the subsidies of the parliamentary group to which the non-compliance deputy belonged, and that this penalty is also imposed by the Bureau on the proposal of the independent commissioner. We also highlighted the deficit that lobists on their own or others were not required to account for each performance, by whom they acted, how much money they had spent on management and what results they had achieved. In short, ladies and gentlemen, as we said in this House some time ago, the proposal is a text which presents gaps in a matter in which there should be no shadow of doubt, but this does not, in our view, justify the introduction of an amendment to the whole of the text, as we are now discussing for the reasons already mentioned and also for the considerable inconsistencies in the amendment, by failing to draw all the consequences that would arise from this claim for an expansive view of the Rules of Procedure of this House with regard to lobbyism before the holders of organs of the executive branch. Thus, and without the intention of exhausting the payroll of these inconsistencies or inconsistencies, I must point out that it consists of regulating the legislative footprint only for parliamentary activity and not for lobbyism before the Executive, or of establishing the link of the executive's senior officials to the code of conduct and stating that their non-compliance will be grounds for punishment, and then and finally not imposing any sanction, because logically and constitutionally the Rules of this House cannot establish any sanctioning regime with respect to a senior executive's office in its relations with lobbyists and lobbyism, let alone a commissioner of this House, however independent it may be. Finally, and as we said and without exhausting spirit, I would like to highlight, in our view, the genuine legal gallimities that are created with the new final sixth provision that is intended to be incorporated into the Rules of this House of Congress of Deputies or the intention that the work schedules of the public offices of the Executive be made public through the web of this House. I'm finishing up, President. We see no reason to support the amendment as a whole with an alternative text, however, as we have pointed out, that the reform contains significant shortcomings, since these, in our view, are remediable through the process of amendments, which could be incorporated into some of the contents of the amendment as a whole. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Eritja i Ciuro has the floor for the Republican Left Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are calling for this in view of what supposedly appears to be a clear will to develop the principles of transparency set out in Law 19/2013 in the framework of the reform of the Congressional Rules of Procedure. That is why we have already expressed our willingness to support the proposal for a law submitted by the People's Group for the regulation of interest groups, although we have also indicated our reservations about the lack of concreteness of some points and, above all, doubts that we had about the point referred to the body responsible for monitoring the register, which was one of the points that we really did not see clearly and with many doubts about. In the same sense as then, our group will support the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed reform of the Rules of Procedure of Congress on interest groups. We believe that this proposal has made progress on the previous proposal and represents an ambitious and sufficiently comprehensive proposal. Our frame of reference for assessing this proposal is Decree 1/2017, which was unanimously adopted by the Parliament of Catalonia to create and regulate the registration of interest groups in Catalonia, a very advanced proposal in this regard and which serves us as a reference to really assess the points proposed. This decree transforms the registration of interest groups of the Generalitat into a registration of Catalonia, so that the municipalities, the county councils, the diputations, the consortia and the public universities, each forced to have their registration, are integrated and able to comply with the Law of Transparency, access to public information and good governance approved in 2015. Therefore, the registration of groups would become a great element to finish articulating the Transparency Act. In this sense and in general the amendment to the whole presented can be positively assessed from the perspective of public transparency, accountability and democratic deepening by the ambition of the approaches and solutions it incorporates. It defines in a very broad way the concept of an interest group - this is one of the points to be valued and taken into account - and places particular relevance on the mandatory nature of registration and the consequences of non-compliance with this obligation both for interest groups themselves and for elected officials and other public officials. It also deals ambitiously with an issue of great interest, such as the legislative footprint, which was one of the points that we commented was needed. And perhaps the most important thing, or for us one of the most important points, is that it is intended to ensure that the effectiveness of the regulation is met through an independent figure, the Commissioner, endowed with a strengthened autonomy. It really takes an agency or a unit that allows independence to manage everything that would be the registration. On the contrary, it gives the impression that the text has been prepared with a certain haste and without making a sufficiently calm reflection on its contents, a fact that generates various problems both of legislative technique and of a more substantive nature. I will provide some elements, elements on which you need to work and define much more so you can assume after problems when applying them. Among the problems, simply taking into account what we believe to be the main ones, is the definition of the interest group incorporated in Article 208, which is long, confused and imprecise. It should be subtitled by a generic definition encompassing all possible assumptions, supplemented by an exhaustive or indicative numbering simply of the specific entities that are considered interest groups, ordering them in a better way. It should be borne in mind that one of the most complex issues in this area is that of the very concept of a group of interest, since whether or not to have this consideration involves the application of a set of very demanding rules, which is why many entities can even reject the consideration of interest groups. It is therefore an element that needs to be taken into account and that is worth defining much better. Another point. Unlike this broad conceptualization, we have not been able to see any forecast on the obligation of interest groups to regularly declare the influence activities or contacts they maintain with public offices. It may be contemplated, but we have not seen it clearly enough. This is an essential issue, since the purpose of a register of interest groups is not so much to publicise which interest groups exist or not, but what influence activities they carry out and with which authorities they maintain contacts. That's the activity we're really interested in registering. It is ultimately a question of who is behind public decisions or who has influenced each case. It's a different way of focusing on the subject of registration. Another point - the last one, in order not to go into more detail - is to assume by Congress the follow-up of interest groups and contacts they maintain with senior officials and other public servants. This possible acceptance of the principle of division of powers can also be questioned from the point of view of the enormous management that it would entail for Congress, in this case for the commissioner, to ensure compliance with the norm. Indeed, the management difficulty of such an agreement would have to be assessed. In conclusion, I will make a general assessment. The amendment to the whole subject of comment makes an ambitious bet in a relevant area, such as the monitoring of interest groups and their influence on public servants and therefore on the development of rules, the design or implementation of public policies or decision-making processes. The proposed regulation could be a very important step forward within the necessary process of democratic regeneration - in that sense, participation is a crucial element that represents a substantial change - and of restoring the confidence of citizens in public institutions. Although it may be useful as a starting point, it is a text that should be matured a little further, in particular to avoid the problems that might arise from the current wording, problems of an institutional nature, of a strictly legal nature or of an operational nature. In this respect, they have our support for this proposal and, based on the amendments that can be made, I suppose we can finish by outlining all those points that we have pointed out. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja Ciuro. Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate that we are having today is a continuation of what we had on 14 March in this House, in which we agreed to take into consideration this legislative initiative of the People's Group for the reform of the Rules of Procedure and the regulation of interest groups. We said then that it was a necessary proposition, that it would cover a legal vacuum and comply with point 114 of the Citizens' Agreement with the People's Party and the Government of Mariano Rajoy. It was a complement to the proposal that we have incorporated through our comprehensive Anti-Corruption Act, which deals with the comprehensive and comprehensive regulation of lobbying and interest groups in the general administration. This, when referring to the activities of these interest groups in this House, was a complement to that and therefore seemed necessary to us. We also said that it needed to be improved, that it had sound gaps and some inconsistencies that we wanted to improve in this process of partial amendments, and we voted in favour of the inclusion, as voted in favour of most of the groups in this House. Only one did not vote in favour, the group that today brings the amendment to its entirety with alternative text. It was the only group that didn't support her. It seems to us, in a minimum exercise of coherence - the coherence in some groups has recently been very devalued, but we want to continue to show a certain consistency in our legislative trajectory - that those who voted in favour of taking the legislative initiative into account, warning that it was not because we accepted the text in its entirety, but because we wanted to improve it, we cannot now go to another different vote to assume the full replacement of the text that was presented in this initiative. It seems incoherent to us. Moreover, starting now the debate where the spokesman ended in that speech - Mrs Elizo, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, who was also the spokesman today presenting her amendment to the whole - the spirit that encouraged you, us and I want to believe that the vast majority of the House when we voted in favour of that consideration was absolutely different. We were in different hemispheres on the conciliation of interest groups and the assessment of their activity. I repeat your final words. He said: '... out of respect for so many injured anonymous people, for continuing to denounce the maneuvers of those who do not stand for election and act from the political backsliding through these transnational lobbies, of those who impose precariousness in exchange for balls, of those who are increasingly enriched by the impoverishment of citizens, emptying of content our democracies. We cannot vote yes to a new plot maneuver to obscure the real spaces of power.' I, from that speech and from that consideration of what interest groups are and what regulation brings to this House, believe that we cannot share the spirit behind this initiative. We share many things, surely we share much of the content and we have already said it at the time. We believe that this House needs a clear process of modernisation, transparency and updating. We have already said this, and we do not want to repeat and reiterate the words we used at that time, but we believe that we need more traceability of legislative decisions to allow accountability and control by citizens, because in the end, in an exercise of democratic deepening. We agree with all that, but you on your initiative go much further and raise other issues. As I said to you, it seems to us that this can be achieved through partial amendments. Another issue that I was warning in that debate and which I would like to reiterate again now is that we cannot forget that we are talking about the reform of the Rules of Procedure of this House. The second final provision of the Rules of Procedure itself requires that this reform be approved by an absolute majority and should therefore be supported by a very majority in this House. It is necessary to find points of agreement and reconcile positions and we will not get that agreement if we make a maximalist bet on a comprehensive reform of the Regulation which has in many cases been a source of absolute frustration. We therefore believe that there is an intermediate point between the shortcomings of the proposal for a law and the proposals that go beyond the amendment to the totality that we are dealing with today. There is this intermediate point and we are sure that we will be able to achieve this in the course of partial amendments. It would be logical and logical not to generate frustration over a regulatory reform that has always been delayed. That great pact, that great agreement, is the one that encourages us today not to support that initiative. We are not going to support it for consistency with what we said here in the consideration, for consistency with which we announced that we would introduce partial amendments and try to improve the text and, above all, for that vocation of reaching a pact and an agreement. It would not be a principle to achieve this by replacing the text of the only group that voted against that initiative with the improved text - and we will improve it in the corresponding procedure - presented by the majority group in this House. That is why, as I said to you, we do not think we can support this initiative, even though I say again that we share some of the issues that you raise, and I hope that in the course of partial amendments we will be able to incorporate them into that great agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Prendes. For the Socialist Group, Mr Urquizu Sancho has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to begin by saying that the Socialist Party and the Socialist Parliamentary Group feel very comfortable in this debate, because we were the first party in this country to sign an agreement with Transparency International back in 2014. We are a group that can set an example in everything that has to do with the public agendas of its deputies, anyone can consult much of them as they make public on the Congress website what they are doing. It is therefore a debate that we like and makes us feel very comfortable. Furthermore, we can say that the Socialist Party, if anything, is at the forefront of democratic regeneration, if anything it has been working on for years, is just how to improve and get out of the political crisis our country is going through. And we do it because two things have happened that seem relevant to us. For some time now there has been a great deal of interest in politics in citizenship, people are very much informed about politics and, moreover, there have never been so many people angry with the functioning of our political system. There have been times during the political crisis when 70% of Spaniards felt that our political system was working badly or very badly. We therefore believe that measures like this are necessary, we believe that it is necessary for Parliament, for political parties and institutions to change, to be more transparent, to be more participatory. We therefore very much agree on the need to improve the internal functioning of the institutions. When the Group of the European People's Party brought its proposal, we said that it seemed insufficient to us, that we thought we needed to do more and, although we were in favour of dealing with it, we warned them that we had little to change an article of the Rules of Procedure, that we needed to do something much deeper than all that. Furthermore, we believe that this is important because, alongside these two phenomena - an increase in interest in politics and a questioning of the functioning of our democratic system - a misconception has spread among public opinion that many people believe that economic power is much stronger than political power, and there are many people who believe that this Parliament is subject to economic power. We have to be able to disassemble that idea and the best way to do it is to be transparent, allowing people to participate, telling people what we do in this house. That is why we believe that this proposal, that this amendment as a whole must be taken into consideration, because we have to value the institutions and, therefore, show that it is Parliament, the political power, and not economic power that actually governs. The best way to reverse this idea is, as I say, to be transparent and make changes, but we believe - that is also the case, despite supporting this amendment as a whole - that what they bring us is a little confusing. We have to be able to distinguish information from knowledge, in the same way that we have to be able to distinguish between transparency and exhibitionism; they are totally different things. We therefore believe that there is a capacity for improvement in the parliamentary procedure to bring about changes in some of the issues that this amendment brings to its entirety. Because, if it does not go ahead, of course in the parliamentary procedure of the proposal made by the People's Party through amendments, we will try to improve this issue. To start with, you have to be much more demanding with interest groups in their classification, because not all are the same. There are some interest groups that are already constitutionally and institutionally recognized, such as social partners or professional colleges, and there are others that we have to ask for much more and with which we have much more doubts, especially those that defend the interests of others in exchange for remuneration. On this it would surely have to be much more demanding than you are. Secondly, we believe that it would be desirable to have a code of conduct similar to that in Europe, that is, not only political representatives must be subject to all this, but also public employees; not only political representatives are the subject of lobbyists and interest groups, but also public employees. That's why we think we need to be more ambitious in that code of conduct. Thirdly, in our view, this should be supplemented by an ethical code of Members; that is, we should have a very demanding code of Members that prevents certain clashes of interest between the interests of interest groups and those of some Members. That's why we think we'd have to raise the bar a lot more. Fourthly, we believe that the legislative procedure with regard to appearances through that process should be greatly improved. That is why we want to be far more ambitious than you are in your proposal. And fifthly, I think we should start talking not only about the legislative fingerprint, which you are doing, but about raising the bar on what you are proposing. We are even more ambitious in this legislative footprint and believe that we need to demand even more. So, finally, we are going to vote in favour, we are going to position ourselves - as we already did at the time - on the need to reform everything that has to do with interest groups in this House. We thought that the People's Party was insufficient and that is why we need to raise the bar much more and that we need to work much more in that direction, but we also tell them that we are going to be ambitious in the amendments, that in the event that it goes forward, we are going to raise the bar much more. This issue must be dealt with rigorously and seriously. In order to be in favor of something, you don't just have to make a law. I've been reviewing the accounts, the websites of the deputies of Podemos and of the seventy-one deputies, only three have a public agenda. To have a public agenda you don't need to be told by a law, you can do it without having the law. [[Applauds.- Mrs Sánchez Melero makes negative gestures and utters words that are not perceived.]] I can tell you who they are: Mr Exposito, Juan Maldonado and the third person I don't remember, but I can tell you who they are. There is no need to make laws to have exemplary behaviors. We have believed this for a very long time, we have been at the forefront in this country of transparency and participation, and therefore lessons, the just. We'll keep working on it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Urquizu. Ladies and gentlemen, we have relatively little time left. I would like to ask you, please, silence because there is a murmur that makes it very difficult for the person who is speaking to concentrate. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Bonilla Domínguez, to whom I am sure we will listen in silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 14 March 2017, in this same plenary room, we raised and asked for confidence to discuss a proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of our House, a proposal that had majority support. Of the 338 Members we were in this House that day, we had the vote in favour of initiating this procedure of 272 Members, 2 votes against and 64 abstentions, which corresponded to the Group of the European People's Party, which has tabled the amendment to the whole of which we are debating this morning. Ladies and gentlemen, that day I was convinced, as I have today, that it unites us all with the very clear idea that we need to be able to reform this regulation in order to make possible the impeccable compatibility between the participation of interest groups, whose action is absolutely legitimate and necessary for our activity and to fulfil our responsibility, and transparency and compliance with the law and with minimum ethical standards, which must be complied with by all. That's why we proposed it that day. The truth is that it was a surprise that the Group of the European People's Party presented this amendment as a whole. Why? We, ladies and gentlemen, simply as a summary, raised four questions as a basis for the debate on something which, I repeat, is very important. First, define the legal status of interest groups. Secondly, the creation of a public and compulsory register. Thirdly, rules of conduct that would affect interest groups registered in that register. And fourth, a body, which we understood should be the Presidency of the House, assisted by the General Secretariat. That was the basic approach we were taking to open a serious and constructive debate of all, because this is a responsibility of all. And I repeat, the support was overwhelming and today we should be talking about those partial amendments that will certainly improve that project. However, we have this amendment to the whole of which I - and very graphically because I cannot go into detail - will separate into two blocks. A part - when he was listening to his spokesman - that logically belongs to issues that we disagree but that need to be discussed - such as, for example, whether he is with or without a commissioner - and that can or cannot be included in the text when we discuss it definitively. Then there is another part of the amendment to the whole that you propose is unabated because we really have no competence. In that amendment to the whole, for example, you intend to regulate from the Rules of Congress the relations of interest groups with members of the Government or with members of other general administrations, and we cannot do so, we have the competence to regulate the relationship of interest groups with Members and seconded staff. You also talk about the creation of a register, but a very broad register, and you really don't specify which people would have to register and which administrations it would affect. Therefore, neither do we have competence in that area. Then they talk about the commissioner to be the guarantor, and curiously, when they talk about this figure they say who cannot belong and when it must cease to be, but neither is it clear who and how people should be chosen to integrate that commissioner. In Article 7, by giving another feature more than it can be, you claim that in the draft laws which the Government initiates or raises, a period of public hearing is opened - you want to regulate it since the Rules - for the groups concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, it is as simple as that section 133 of the General Law on Public Administration already provides for this kind of public hearing. With this, what do I mean? That, on the one hand, there are issues of their approach that cannot be taken, that we have no capacity for it, and that there are others that we can and must discuss, but what is clear - and I say this to the group that presented the initiative - is that this is not the case. If this House three and a half months ago put forward a draft to discuss it, it cannot come forward three months after we take up that draft and talk about something else. Ladies and gentlemen, today I would ask the Group of the European People's Party to withdraw that amendment as a whole. I think we all share the goal, the need to legislate it. We all share that it has to be a construction of everyone, because the rules are of everyone and in addition we will each bring the best to this project. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not built when you want to take down a whole project. If we are talking about coherence, I must also address the Socialist Group. The Socialist Parliamentary Group voted in favour on 14 March 2017 and I was very interested in hearing the reasons why it is changing its vote today. I'd ask for consistency. From the intervention of the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I cannot admit the first part, in which he has tried to give us lessons of transparency, because they can really talk a lot about transparency, but when they have been adopted here and tried to take measures for democratic regeneration, they have risen or not supported them, and when we talk about the regulation of lobbies or interest groups - for example, there was a presentation in March 2015 - these members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group rose from that regulation. Therefore, in the first part of your speech you cannot speak and give regeneration lessons because you have not supported the vast majority of that regulation. In the second part, the only thing they have said is, as they said in their day, that they do not comply with the whole text that we have presented. Perfect, if that is what we are here for, that is why a whole parliamentary procedure is now under way, so that we can build together with the amendments that we are all making. I would therefore also ask the Socialist Group for consistency; they have said nothing different today than the other day. I simply ask you that all that you have to contribute, or that you even share the initiative of the Podemos Group, be put forward through partial amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a unique opportunity. Citizenship is demanding more regeneration, more and better democracy, and they are right. We also agree that it is essential that we regulate the linkage of civil society, through interest groups, with parliamentarians - we are talking today about parliamentarians, not the rest of the public administrations - in order to guarantee, on the one hand, that right of citizenship and, on the other hand, that they are able to convey to us all their needs, all their dreams and all their problems so that we are able to translate it through the laws in the public interest, in the general interest for all. Ladies and gentlemen, we are being asked by the citizens. We have a great country and I believe today that we owe this consensus effort to do more and better democracy in this Parliament; we owe it to the Spanish and we owe it to Spain. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs Bonilla Dominguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u79	We shall now proceed to the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of the most excellent Members. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, a five-minute shift is opened for parliamentary groups to set their positions. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am surprised that, since there is a report by the lawyers in favour of the compatibility of all those who have requested it, this has become a controversial matter. [[The Lord]] I think this controversy has more to do with past experiences than with the present, and I honestly believe so. It is true, and from there can come all the setbacks, that there have been conducts, to put it mildly, very little exemplifying in the recent past in this House, but it seems to me that the key is precisely to establish certain rules of transparency. The fact that there are a number of Members who have done undecent, even criminal, things cannot result from the absolute prohibition, as some would like, that a Member has any other activity or activity outside the Member. What this is about is that we know what that other activity is. In that sense, our group is ready for maximum transparency, all that is needed, and all that is needed surely means different things depending on the type of activity to which we refer. I find it difficult to think, for example, of a Parliament where no one writes, because it is in the tradition of parliamentarianism; the parliamentarian, historically, is a person who writes, who from time to time publishes a book, who publishes articles of opinion. In my case, I write a weekly column, and I write it in the AVE that brings me from Barcelona to Madrid on Sunday nights. I set this as an example, and I know that this may not be the majority example, but perhaps it is; that is, perhaps it is the majority of Members - several Members of my group are in that case - who write a weekly column. You can walk and whistle at the same time, you can be a congressman and write a column in the AVE, I don't see the problem. Can you have a law firm? Surely, the treatment of that must be very different. And what's the difference? Again, transparency. From the experience we have accumulated, I agree that perhaps it is too naive to expect the Member to depart from those matters that may come into collision with something that has to do with a client of his or her own. Let us seek mechanisms so that that is not the necessary form or the form that resolves the doubt. I think of a few examples - we will go along with that - such as the obligation, for those who have an office or have not closed their office or firm, to communicate what their customers are or that, whenever they issue their minutes or invoice, they send a copy to some service in Parliament. What I want to say with this - because I am not going to settle the details of this issue - is that there is, on the one hand, a certain hypocrisy in the sense that in all groups there are people who carry out activities outside parliamentary activity without diminishing their performance as parliamentarians and, on the other hand, there is also, let us say, the elephant in the room of being, that many show that he is not or that they do not want to see him, and that if this has become a controversial and contentious matter it is because some Members of the past - not of this House now; of the past - have carried out reprehensible and corrupt conduct protected by his condition. [[Applauds]] So, transparency. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Carreño Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u82	We are finally going to start with a debate that we have been delaying for a year. First of all, I would like to stress that what we are discussing here today is whether or not to approve an opinion drawn up by a lawyer in this House; that is, it is technical work drawn up by an official who does not enter into political evaluations, but merely checks that the current law is being complied with, that is, that the declarations of Members do not violate the current law. I therefore believe that we should adopt this opinion. I also believe that it is necessary to amend this law so as not to repeat cases that have occurred in the past, such as those of Trillo and Martínez-Pujalte, which are unworthy and intolerable cases. However, in order to amend the law and to reach agreements, it is obviously necessary to do so through the legislative procedure, which is not to hinder the adoption of this opinion, which is not to discuss it continuously in the Committee on the Statute of the Member, a Commission which lacks legislative capacity. I therefore invite those who wish to amend this Act to reach agreements to bring new legislation. Look, the current law governing the current incompatibilities is Law 9/1991, which is a law of the Socialist Party. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u83	Wait a minute. Quiet, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u84	I understand that you have been able to change your mind since 1991; what I cannot understand is that in twenty-six years you have not been able to bring a legislative initiative to this Parliament to actually change this issue. And you have had occasions, not only in these twenty-six years in which you could have actually brought a legislative proposal, but there were others following proposals from other groups. On 25 January 2011, in particular, United Left, brought a proposal to give exclusive character to parliamentary activity. At that time Mr Fernández González, the spokesman for the Socialist Group in this House, referred to this proposal as a populist, erroneous, damaging to the good health of Parliament and accused the United Left of wanting to turn parliamentary activity into a trade. You voted no. In particular, Mr Sahuquillo - you have stated this in the Committee on the Statute of the Member - was already in this House and voted against this proposal. [[Applauds]] In October 2016, we reopened the debate on the Loreg, which is precisely the law governing incompatibility, and you did not make any amendments in this regard, when you could have done so. They only saw the problem months later. However, despite all these missed occasions, we invite you to present a legislative initiative because we believe that there is a need to amend the legislation, because this is indeed not a trivial issue, because incompatibilities are established precisely to protect public management, to prevent private interests from being confused with the public and to prevent, after all, forms of legal corruption. That is why we will always agree to legislate in this regard. We propose to pass a law with three premises. The first, which contains a clear and strict regulation. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u85	Wait a minute, Mrs. Carreño, wait a minute. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u86	He said it was necessary to pass a law with three premises. The first, which contains stricter codes of conduct, such as those we already have in United-We can, as our ethical code, our wage limitation or our waiver of privileges. [[Applauds]] It is also necessary to articulate control mechanisms, because do you have any guarantee that the Socialist Members, the only ones who have not been tainted in public media to be incurring incompatibilities, do not do any other activity than those they declare? Do you have any guarantees? Because, look, I have a contract here. [[Show a document]] This is a contract of a council governed by the Socialist Party and, do you know who appears in this contract? César Luena, deputy for La Rioja, former secretary of organization. And this certainly does not appear in the statement of activities. With this in mind, without control mechanisms that guarantee that what Members say is true, we do nothing and for this to happen we need to change the Rules of Procedure. [[Applauds]] Finally, it is not enough to prevent private remuneration from being paid while in office, it is of course necessary that this regulation goes beyond the mandate, because in this country what is necessary is to regulate the revolving doors, since there are lots of public charges that are in energy companies and that they have acceded to that position precisely because they are public offices, and that is indeed a real confusion of public and private interests and a real corruption in a legal way. Therefore - and I conclude with this - I invite you to regulate jointly. What is not worthy is that you go from newspaper to newspaper accusing us all of being the same, calling us all of being the same and casting suspicions on colleagues who have honest attitudes, colleagues like, for example, Juancho Uralde, who has been accused of being in a situation of incompatibility because of having two solar plates of self-consumption, when he is a recognized ecologist and is only working in a coherent way. [[Applauds]] It's also unworthy...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u87	Let's wrap it up, Mrs. Carreño.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u88	It is also unworthy to accuse Diego Cañamero, who continues today given discharge in the special agrarian regime precisely because he wanted to renounce the social security regime of Congress in order to continue to charge 650 euros per month on the day he retires, which is the pension that belongs to a newspaperman. [[Applauds]] I wish the rest of the Members of this House had the honesty and dignity of our Members. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u89	Mrs. Carreño, your time is up, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u90	Therefore - and I conclude already - I propose to you that we legislate together, because you will always find us to achieve legislation that is more transparent, that provides better public management and more ethical conduct. But for the time being let us apply the laws in force and, as its rapporteur said in 2011, let us push for the necessary changes with serenity and rigour. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u91	For the Socialist Group, Mr Sahuquillo García has the floor. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of Members of Parliament are uncomfortable because, by devoting ourselves absolutely to our political work, the Member of Parliament, we have to endure unfair and widespread criticism of the regime of incompatibilities that the Congress of Deputies applies. What is the current situation? Article 157.1 of the Electoral Act provides that the mandate of deputies and senators shall be exercised on an absolute basis and 157.2 states that their mandate shall be incompatible with the performance, by itself or by substitution, of any other post, profession or activity, public or private, on their own or other account, remunerated by salary, salary, tariff, fees or any other form. Look closely: incompatible with any other remunerated activity. This law provides for exceptions to this prohibition; some of them are clear: parliamentarians who meet the conditions of university professors, the mere administration of personal or family heritage, production and literary, scientific-artistic or technical creation. Another exception, on the other hand, is not so conclusive, that included in section 159.3(c) of the Electoral Act which, from our point of view, has become a tailor's drawer, as if a blank cheque for parliamentarians were to be dealt with, and what is a mere possibility becomes something that is not, a right. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the above-mentioned article, all types of private activities have been authorised, some of them of a generic nature, such as consultancy or advice. Moreover, once authorization has been issued, it is difficult to prevent a parliamentarian whose private activity has been authorized from engaging in cases of questionable legality depending on who is the target of his or her advisory activities, even close to the traffic of influences, since no body of the House has assigned control over compliance with the terms of the compatibility authorization. What have we done and what have we proposed in the Socialist Group? In 2015 we already presented an initiative in this regard in plenary on the occasion that the businesses of Mr Martínez-Pujalte, Mr Trillo, Mr Agustín Conde were made public, by the way, those of Gustavo de Aristegui and Mr Gómez de la Serna were not yet known. We also tabled amendments to the laws that the Government introduced against corruption and which the People's Parliamentary Group did not accept. In the XI Legislature we proposed to the Committee on the Statute of the Deputy that, at least, and until there was a change in the approach to dedication, the deputies to whom the Chamber had authorized had to communicate periodically the relationship of the persons with whom they would maintain such professional links, always after compliance with the provisions on data protection. In this legislature, first in December 2016, we already warned that our intention was, with regard to declaring the compatibility of private activities, not to support the opinion as it had been done. On the contrary, there is nothing to say about taking into account the knowledge of the statements of the other Members of Parliament who do not ask for compatibility. And, second, last February 23rd, like when we made a new proposal the only ones, Mr. Girauta, Mrs. Carreño... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u93	Wait a minute, Mr. Sahuquillo. I don't know if you're aware of the growing degree of murmuring, I suppose. [[Pause]] Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u94	I was saying that on 23 February, when we made a new proposal, that we were the only ones who made it, Mrs Carreño - I understand that you strongly defend the compatibility of parliamentarians - we proposed, among other things - briefly summarises this - that first of all, prior to issuing the opinion, I should like to ask those who require permission to inform the Commission of the reasons why they are asking for it and the private activities they intend to carry out. Secondly, to transmit to the Bureau of the House for its transfer to the parliamentary groups its view that the following points on incompatibilities should be dealt with in the relevant rules, if any. First, to provide for and implement the principle of the exclusive dedication of parliamentarians. In this regard, only private activities relating to the mere administration of the patrimony, production and creation of literature, scientific, artistic or technical, and publications derived therefrom, as well as, where remuneration is not received, membership in governing bodies or representatives of political parties, trade union or business organizations, associations, foundations and non-profit entities, collaboration in teaching activities or participation in conferences, seminars and similar activities or collaboration in the media, may be compatible. That's right, gentlemen of Podemos, without charge! Or also to give the Committee on the Statute of the Deputy the capacity to verify the veracity of the declarations and specifically to investigate the omissions or distortions of the declarations and the non-compliance with the terms of the authorization granted by the Chamber, and may propose to the plenary the adoption of the corresponding penalties for such non-compliance. [[Applauds]] We can discuss whether these proposals are correct or sufficient, and what no one can doubt is that something needs to be done. It does not move us inquisitively, the Socialist Group already applies these incompatibilities to its Members, Mrs Carreño, internally, and if it is possible for us, it must also be for you. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. What is unacceptable is that a Member showing his authorization for compatibility receives 5000 euros a month and who pays them justify it by saying that he is a good connoisseur of the Spanish reality. We cannot allow these kinds of behaviors to debunk and debunk the work and work of this House, actions that are increasingly separating us from the citizens, gentlemen of Podemos. The opinion which is to be voted on today with regard to the free exercise of professional activities on its own account specifies that this is a private activity and is justified by the fact that it is the Commission's repeated criterion confirmed by the plenary that it is subject to authorisation or that the Commission may grant authorisation. Since it is a possibility and not a right, our group has decided to put an end to this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Sahuquillo. Mr Barreda de los Ríos has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party will support the Commission's opinion, which, as has been recalled, has the favourable report from the services of the House and which considers that at the time when it was issued all Members complied with the legal provisions in their statements. These legal provisions are the same as a year ago which allowed this plenary to adopt unanimously the opinion of the XI Legislature. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u97	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u98	Today we do not seem to be going to achieve that unanimity. They are the same rules, the same legislation, mostly the same people and the same activities; the only thing that has changed this year has been the Socialist Party. We are faced with a political group which, as Mr Sahuquillo said, intends to apply its internal rule to us, which Mr Sánchez imposed on all Members. He wants us to apply his internal law instead of the law; they want to replace the democratic rule adopted by this Parliament by the order and command of Mr Sánchez, and in that they will not find the People's Party. And they also want to do it to the extent of Members of the Socialist Group. You do not object to officials of the compatible perception of trienniums, to teachers or to literary creation or to lawyers working for the party - nothing to object to any activity declared by the Socialist Group - but I must tell you that this does not sound like a criterion, it is not a rule; it is rather a filter, a filter that specifically favours Members of the Socialist Group. And to that end, for months you have extended the stain of suspicion over the whole of the House. They point with their finger and establish a presumption of abuse - even today in the rostrum - mixing names, situations, going beyond the presumption of innocence, of course. They establish a kind of presumption of corruption that reaches all those present and all those who preceded us; also the way in which hundreds of socialist Members of Parliament exercised for decades activities authorized by the House until four days ago, and I must tell you that it is not legitimate to question the truth and the honorability of all Members of Parliament just because the Socialist Party is not able to clarify itself. That you have an erratic criterion does not allow you to put others on the spot. Not everything is true in politics or in life; this debate cannot be raised from the point of view of confusion; the adoption of the opinion cannot be conditioned on legislative reforms as future as they are inconcrete; absolute dedication cannot be equated with exclusive dedication when the law does not require it and it also expressly provides for compatible and authorized activities. Therefore, the person carrying out another declared and authorised activity does not incur any irregularity or incompatibility. Nor is it lawful to convey the feeling that authorized activities have no limits. They have them, ladies and gentlemen, expressly established in the opinion and known to all; it is not lawful to put names or activities at a press leaking blow. [[The lady]] For you to understand me, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, it is not lawful to embarrass because embarrassing is not politics, and it seems a lie that at this point we have to explain this to a party with the tradition of the Socialist Party. Their position affects who and how they can access politics; their position threatens to turn the Legislature into a closed corner, into an area reserved for some social groups, into a Parliament far away from society. It seems that the PSOE wants a Parliament only for rich, civil servants and political opportunists; only for those who have secured welfare, have reserve of place in the Administration or can prove in politics how a shirt or shoes would be tested, and of course with the same responsibility. We believe that Parliament should reflect the society it serves. The quality of democracy also requires a House with various perspectives, vital or professional experiences that are important to the legislature. We have one of the strictest regimes in Europe in terms of incompatibilities - something you, by the way, never say - a regime that has been revised and agreed upon since 2012 by all groups and that you question unilaterally, improvisedly, without legal support and with pretensions of retroactivity. We believe that the changes in criteria should be reasoned, agreed and the result of the broadest possible consensus among the groups, and that of course the House cannot be closed down and access to it for growing groups of citizens. Of course, we have a lot to go on. Reform of the Electoral Law and the Rules of Procedure is being studied, and there are as many things that can be considered as necessary, many of which we have already started talking about in these months, and of course those that affect the activities of Members of Parliament. The reporting of activities and of property and income can be improved; the monitoring, monitoring and control of authorized activities can be improved; the duty to update, complete and truthful the reporting should be clearly established; the prohibition of new unauthorized activities should be established; the investigation of omissions, falsehoods or non-compliances with the authorized and, of course, the determination of the consequences and responsibilities in such cases, not to mention an ethical code that would be the best response to the last Greek report, for example. Just as it is possible - and we have put it this way from the Group of the European People's Party, we have discussed it today - to regulate the functioning of interest groups in our Rules of Procedure. That is the work that awaits us and the ground on which we hope to be able to find ourselves. We regret that it has not been possible today and that some are putting forward issues where we should all seek agreement rather than serve the House and the citizens by not making the political debate on issues where there really is no reason for it. Today, therefore, we support the opinion, which says that all the members of the House comply at the time when the rules were issued and that they therefore do not involve any question of incompatibility - I repeat - under the existing legislation, which is the same as it was a year ago. That others explain their difference in vote and position in relation to those two dates. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u99	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u100	We turn to the agenda item on the proposal of the Equality Commission to extend the deadline for the subcommission for a state pact on gender-based violence until 31 July for the conclusion of its work. That proposal shall be put to the vote at the end of this meeting. In three minutes we shall begin the voting. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, we have started the vote. Proposition of the law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, to promote and facilitate the donation of food. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; 266 plus 2 telematics votes, 268; abstentions, 73.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u102	Consideration shall be given to the proposal for a law. - PROPOSAL FOR THE LAW OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENT GROUP ON THE CRIMINAL REPRESENTATION OF THE ILLEGAL FINANCING OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES [[ORGANISATION]] [[File number 122/000092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u103	Secondly, we vote for the Joint Parliamentary Group's proposal for a law on criminal repression of the illegal financing of political parties. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; 192 plus 1 telematics vote, 193; against, 2; abstentions, 145 plus 1 telematics vote, 146.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u104	Consideration shall be given to the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u105	We voted for the non-legislative proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the road and legal safety of cyclists on our roads. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the Citizens Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 336 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u106	The non-legislative proposal was approved. - PROPOSAL NOT FOR THE LAW OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENT GROUP ON THE IMPULSION OF THE HIGH-VELOCITY NETWORK IN THE FORAL COMMUNITY OF NAVARRA, THE SECOND STEP OF THE CANAL OF NAVARRA AND THE PENDING PROCESSES OF THE AUTHORITY OF NAVARRA A-15, STRATEGIC AND ESSENTIAL INFRASTRUCTURES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE FORAL COMMUNITY. [[LORD ALLI AND LORD SALVADOR]] [[File number 162/000416]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u107	We move on to the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group on the boost of the high-speed network in the Navarra Foral Community, the second phase of the Navarra Canal and the pending sections of the Navarra A-15 motorway, strategic and essential infrastructure for the development of the foral community. [[Mr Alli and Mr Salvador]] The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 249 against, 73 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u108	The non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u109	We now proceed to vote on the motion, following an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the political responsibilities that the Minister of Finance and Public Service intends to assume as a result of the ruling of the Constitutional Court declaring his fiscal amnesty unconstitutional and void. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 197 against, 135 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u110	The motion was approved. [[Applauds]] - Motion, consequence of the urgent interpellation of the Parliamentary Group of the Republic of Moldova, to guarantee IDEOLOGIC, RELIGIOUS AND CULTURAL FREEDOMS. [[File number 173/000037]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u111	We voted for the motion, as a result of urgent questioning by the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, to guarantee ideological, religious and religious freedom. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 166 against, 166 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u112	With a tie, we're going to vote again. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 167 against, 166 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u113	The motion was approved. [[Applauds]] - Motion, consequence of the urgent interpellation of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, on the negation of the Government to equip it with equal and non-transferable rights of parenthood and materiality. [[File number 173/000038]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u114	We now vote on the motion, as a result of urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the Government's refusal to equalize paternity and maternity leave in a non-transferable manner. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the Socialist Group's amendment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 339.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u115	The motion was approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u116	We are now voting on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. First, the Global Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, done at Brussels on 30 October 2016. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 179 against, 79 abstentions, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u117	The opinion was adopted. [[Applauds]] - CONVENTION ON COOPERATION IN THE FIELD AGAINST CRIMINATION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER, DONE IN NIAMEY ON 14 MAY 2015. [[File number 110/000033]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE JOINT ORGANIZATION FOR ARMED COOPERATION FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A SATELLITE OFFICE OF THE A400M PROGRAMME IN THE SPANISH TERRITORY, DONE IN MADRID ON 9 JULY 2014. [[I'll take ……]] [[File number 110/000035]] - ACTS, RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE POSTAL UNION OF THE AMERICAS, SPAIN AND PORTUGAL ADOPTED IN THE HAVANA ON 13 SEPTEMBER 2013, DURING THE XXII ORDINARY MEETING OF THE POSTAL UNION OF THE AMERICAS, SPAIN AND PORTUGAL. [[UPAEP]] [[File number 110/000036]] - ACTS ADOPTED IN DOHA ON 11 OCTOBER 2012 DURING THE XXVTH MEETING OF THE UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION - AMENDMENT OF THE TEXT AND ANNEXES II TO IX AND INCORPORATION OF NEW ANNEXES X AND XI TO THE PROTOCOL TO THE 1979 CONVENTION ON TRANSFRONTRY AIR CONTAMINATION TO GREAT DEPARTMENT, RELATING TO THE REDUCTION OF ACIDIFICATION, EUTROFIZATION AND OZONE IN TROPOSPERA, ADOPTED IN JANUARY ON 4 MAY 2012. [[UPU]] [[File number 110/000037]] [[File number 110/000038]] - CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE STATE OF CATAR TO AVOID DOUBLE IMPOSEMENT AND PREVENTION OF TAX EVALUATION IN THE MATTER OF INCOME TAXES, AND THEIR PROTOCOL, DONE IN MADRID ON 10 SEPTEMBER 2015. [[File number 110/000039]] - AGREEMENT ESTABLISHING THE EU-ALC INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION, DONE IN SANTO DOMING ON 25 OCTOBER 2016. [[EUROPEAN LATIN AMERICA UNION AND THE CARIBBEAN]] [[File number 110/000040]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u118	We jointly vote on the following seven issues: Cooperation Convention on combating crime between the Kingdom of Spain and the Republic of Niger, done in Niamey on 14 May 2015; Agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the Joint Organization for Cooperation in Arms Matters for the establishment of a satellite office of the A400M programme in the Spanish territory, done in Madrid on 9 July 2014; minutes, resolutions and recommendations of the Postal Union of the Americas, Spain and Portugal adopted in Havana on 13 September 2013 during the Ordinary Congress of the Postal Union of the Americas, Spain and Portugal; minutes adopted in Doha on 11 October 2012 during the Congress of the Universal Postal Union; amendment of the text and of Annexes II to IX and incorporation of new Annexes X and XI to the Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Air Pollution Transboundary to Great Distance, relating to the reduction of the acidification of eutrophication and ozone in the tropics, adopted in Geneva on 4 May 2012; Convention between the Kingdom of Taxation and the Dominican Republic on the prevention of double taxation and taxing of Spain, 25 October 2016 [[European Union-Latin America and the Caribbean]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 330 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u119	They are approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u120	We vote for the amendment to the entire alternative text presented to the proposed law on the rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person before the final process of his life, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; 84; 248 plus 1 telematics vote, 249; abstentions, 7 plus 1 telematics vote, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u121	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u122	The plenary of the House has been requested to approve the final deliberation and vote of this bill. That is why we are voting on this request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; 173; 166 plus 1 telematics vote, 167; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u123	You're a lawyer.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u124	Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text submitted to the proposal for reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies for the regulation of interest groups, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 2 telematics votes, 339; 157; 177 plus 2 telematics votes, 179; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u125	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u126	We are now voting on the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of the most excellent Members. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 258 against, 80 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u127	The opinion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-29-CD170629.u128	Finally, the extension of the deadline for the Sub-Commission on a State Pact on Gender-based Violence until 31 July for the conclusion of its work is submitted to the plenary. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] Accordingly, the extension of the deadline for the Sub-Commission for a State Pact on Gender-based Violence until 31 July was approved. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was 12 and 40 minutes from noon.
