ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u1	The meeting was resumed. We come to the point of the opinions of the Committees on legislative initiatives and in particular on the proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 5/1995 of 22 May of the Jury Court to ensure the participation of persons with disabilities without exclusion. As this initiative is organic, it must be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. That is why, pursuant to this provision, I would like to inform you that the vote will not take place before 12 noon. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Joint Group on position-setting. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u2	I'll step in from the seat. Would anyone ever think of being told that to be a deputy, a deputy, a judge or a mayor he didn't have to be physically, psychically or sensibly prevented? We would take all our hands to our heads and scandalize ourselves, appeal to the Constitution, to articles 14, 23 and 125. Well, that is what, since 1995 - since 1995, I insist - the Law of the Jury Court is enshrined in article 8.5 of the Law, and that is despite the fact that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2008 already states that there must be equality and that all people must be able to have full and effective participation in all matters of justice. Today we repair an anomaly that we have taken nothing more and nothing less than twenty-seven years to fix with the Law of the Jury Court and nine years since the United Nations Convention established this right to participation. We will therefore vote enthusiastically on this opinion from Compromís. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u3	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó. [[Pause]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr. Legarda Uriarte. [[PNV]] [[Pause]] Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u4	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to ratify today in plenary the opinion adopted last week by the Committee on Justice. We are prepared to approve and refer to the Senate the amendment of an organic law to ensure the participation of persons with disabilities as members of the jury and to ensure their participation without exclusion. That opinion was adopted last week, despite the attempt to suspend the normal course of that session. The President of the Commission, Mrs Rodríguez, said this very well: this reform affects some people, some groups who have asked us urgently for the adoption of this opinion. To this I would just like to add that it has the urgency of those who are suffering discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, people with disabilities cannot wait for some members of this House to decide whether they are working or not, whether they are entering or leaving, whether they are going or staying, because people with disabilities have been waiting long enough. [[Applauds]] They have been waiting since Spain signed the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and entered into a major commitment to ensure, promote and protect the full and equal enjoyment of their rights and fundamental freedoms. That is why it is our obligation to resolve and put an end to the delay that Spain has accumulated in the development and deployment of the effects of this international treaty, and it is especially urgent to do so with regard to the rights of participation in public life, such as this, the right to participate and to be part of a jury. Very possibly the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group will remind us that once Spain, there for 2013, won a United Nations prize in recognition of the progress made in the field of inclusion. I do not take away any merit from you, Mr Tremiño, but the important thing is not to wear the yellow jersey on the first day of the Tour de France, the important thing is to lead the race when it ends, on the last day, or in this case the day that the deadline that we have given ourselves to comply with the obligations of this international treaty, next December, in just two months; we are going very late, ladies and gentlemen. However, the Citizens Group welcomes the fact that this proposed organic law and the reform it contains will be adopted, will presumably be ratified unanimously today, and we also welcome the fact that it will do so with the consensus, momentum and participation of the association movement on disability. I take this opportunity to greet the president of Cermi and the representatives of this association movement and to convey to them the recognition of my group as the real drivers of this reform. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear to the plenary, and of course to you, that because of this broad consensus and in order to respect it, our group withdrew the amendments it had tabled, with which we intended to take a step further. We wanted to take a step further by eliminating the mention - I say quotes -: Persons with disabilities cannot be excluded by this circumstance - I close quotes - because we considered that the mention itself to the possibility of exclusion could be understood as discriminatory in itself. We also included in the article that public administrations should be responsible and guarantee the necessary resources and accessibility, which has finally been included in an additional provision. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the commitment of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to persons with disabilities and our full readiness to protect and secure their rights, to contribute and to work on the reforms that are necessary for this, because in this area, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that political differences will be minimal and we will be able to resolve them with ease. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Sixto Iglesias has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we are voting for the amendment of Law 5/1995 of the Court of the Jury, because it is an organic law, by which we eliminate any possible interpretation so that persons with functional diversity are excluded from the responsibility to act as jurors. In this regard, as has already been said, we are only complying with the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted in 2006 and ratified by Spain in 2008. But apart from the question of the inclusion of functional diversity in a responsibility as important as that of the jury, I would like to make a special mention of the jury's own institution, an institution that has contributed decisively to the democratization of justice in our country, especially for those people who, without being professionals in the world of justice at some point in their lives, come to the most serious responsibility that is to determine the guilt or innocence of a person and the degree of that guilt. Just yesterday I was commenting on it with a friend, how it changes the perception of what it is to participate in a jury for citizenship, to be before being called to jury with fear of taking on that responsibility and almost eager to run away, to how after participating as jury changes for citizenship the perception of the function of delivering justice. The same was explained by Esquerra's spokesman in the Senate session who admitted to the process this PDECAT bill, which today has not come out here to wear the medal of having brought this bill that comes from the Senate to Congress. I do not know if this is a magnificent example of how the parliamentary procedure has to go. The truth is that it was debated in December, this is September and we have only amended two articles of an organic law, 8.5 and 20. The withdrawal of amendments by certain groups, the unanimity in the work of the paper and so on marks a sort of milestone in the parliamentary legislative work of this House; a legislative work that - ladies and gentlemen, I take this opportunity to appeal - we need to reform. This is a legislative procedure which, although it has worked well in this case, is a slow legislative procedure. There are proposals for law, such as the reform of the status of autonomy of my land, of the Valencian country, which has been paralyzed in the Chamber in induced coma for more than a year, and is a single article, ladies and gentlemen. It is a process that allows this House to draw legislative proposals that contradict certain articles and that reduces the Senate to a simple role of correcting the errors of this House. We need a procedure to ensure that the texts do not come out of this House with errors. It's a repetitive process. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Government sends the draft General State Budgets in a few weeks, we will go back to that liturgy to repeat twice, first in the Commission and then in plenary, the whole budget debate, the whole vote on amendments. And it's also a scattered legislative process. We now have two proposals for legislation on the reform of the Citizens' Security Act with contradictory texts and we do not yet know how we can proceed with partial amendments. Although in this amendment of Law 5/1995, of the Jury Court, we have followed an almost model procedure for unanimity and speed, the truth is that our legislative procedure needs a thorough review. It needs to be changed definitively to prevent it from being, as I have already said, slow, contradictory, repetitive and dispersed. In any case, today is a day to congratulate those with functional diversity who will see their full ability to intervene also in the administration of justice recognized. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u7	Thank you very much. Mrs Hernanz Costa has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to welcome on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group the representatives of the associations of persons with disabilities who are right now in the guest gallery, to whom I would not only like to thank you for your presence here today, but above all for your work and your constant and constant demand. Welcome to this house. I am therefore pleased to come up to this rostrum to mark my group's position on the opinion of a Commission whose purpose was to propose a reform of the Law of the Court of the Jury, which will ensure without exclusion the participation of persons with disabilities in the institution of the jury and which has been adopted unanimously by all parliamentary groups in the Commission. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, it was essential to put an end to this unfair discrimination which prevented the direct participation in the administration of justice of those who were in a position to do so. And that is why we brought this legislative initiative to this House in 2011, although it was not able to complete its proceedings due to the early completion of the legislature. It is therefore gratifying for us that the procedure has been resumed and that it will be adopted unanimously by all the parliamentary groups. This is undoubtedly a question of justice. Since the 15th century, justice has been represented with a woman, with the figure of a woman wearing blindfolded, a balance in one hand and a sword in the other. The blindfold represents what must be one of its greatest virtues: justice is blind, justice does not look at people, looks at the facts. But the fairness that must accompany the administration of justice must permeate all its manifestations, it must be applied with equity to the justiciable, but it must also be ensured that, as provided for in article 125 of our Constitution, all citizens can participate directly and actively in it through the institution of the jury. However, the original wording of the Law of the Jury Court laid down a number of provisions which, in practice, entailed the exclusion on the grounds of disability from the right of many citizens to participate in a popular jury, causing unfair and intolerable discrimination. That's what we're going to solve here today. And with that we will also implement the constitutional mandate, but also the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in this case, in the field of the administration of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a small legislative amendment, but it is a major change and progress in the area of civil rights. Today we are not just talking about the removal of architectural barriers. Today we are talking primarily about the elimination of psychological barriers, ours, those of those who have no apparent disability and who, on many occasions, are the most important barrier that people with disabilities should be faced with. Let us continue to move in this direction and we will be moving forward in the improvement and deepening of our democracy. When this legislative initiative is completed and published in the Official Gazette of the State, we can all be satisfied that our justice will be a little blinder, a little better; the justice we have been looking for since the 15th century, which looks not at people but at facts. The fact is that we were unjustifiably denying a group of citizens their right to participate actively in the administration of justice. In short, this is what we have wanted from the Socialist Group and I am convinced that, also, from the rest of the parliamentary groups. I therefore believe that it is good news that we have done so with consensus, with a unanimous opinion and that together today we are moving towards the achievement of justice and, therefore, a more equal and better society for all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Tremiño Gómez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u10	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. I want to take this opportunity, President, to thank you also for your willingness always with people with disabilities in the act we had yesterday, 'Let everyone hear it', of deaf people, and that was a very nice act in which we were, in addition, many of the Members who are here today. Ladies and gentlemen, not only do I greet the Cermi, who are among us his president, his director-general and his legal adviser, but I have to thank you very much for the work and tireless defence of the rights of persons with disabilities. I am not going to talk to you about Article 14 of the Constitution; you all know it, we all know it. Nor am I going to tell you about the convention, Martial dear, of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which Spain ratified in 2008; we all know it or should all recognize it, all of us in this room; I am not so sure, but that is so. It was precisely in my previous responsibility that I had to go to the conference for five years, once a year, five times, to report on the progress that Spain had made in legislative matters with regard to the international convention. That is where I realized that, despite how much we still have to move forward, we are far ahead of most of the countries in our environment, and those that are not in our environment, in terms of rights for persons with disabilities. There, at the convention conference, I realized that Spain could look loud and clear and tell the rest of the world what progress we had made in the field of disability. With regard to employment, for example, it is true that we have an unemployment rate of 10 percentage points above the disabled population, but it is also true that we are the first country in Europe to create jobs for people with disabilities; the first country in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, and the first countries in the world, and I do not say so. [[Applauds]] Yesterday, visiting a friend - a wheelchair kid who started a new job here in Madrid - I was entertained watching this month's news in the Journal of Civil Society, according to which the Workability International, which groups more than forty countries and seeks perception in employment for people with disabilities, says this month that Spain is an example to follow for the rest of the world. [[Show a magazine]] I do not say that; it is said by the Civil Society, ladies and gentlemen. It is also true that in inclusive education we do not have one hundred percent of people with disabilities - it is true, dear Luis - but we have 80 percent, and it is that Spain, together with Portugal, is one of the pioneer countries in inclusive education with respect to the rest of the countries. And it is true that in accessibility we have a date - it has been said here - on December 4 of this year, in which all the products and services will have to be accessible, objective to which we will surely not reach, but anyone with physical, sensory or intellectual disabilities who travels through any country of the European Union realizes the progress that we have in relation to other countries and that we are a country to which we can only be copied and repeated, because we are the first in accessibility of the world, and that, ladies and gentlemen, we like or do not like, is so for everyone. [[Applauds]] It's true that this wasn't always the case, so I want to tell you today that I've been in a wheelchair for twenty-seven years. Twenty-five years ago this was very different, it was the other side: the dark side. It's true; twenty-five years, a quarter of a century. It is true that on my first exit from the hospital finding a reduced edge to cross the street was impossible; there were no lowered edges, nor were there any sound traffic lights for deaf people. It is true that in my native Valladolid I was constantly discussing with the then city council the reserved places for people with disabilities; I was constantly discussing why they complied with the law - because the Lismi already existed - so that one in every forty places was reserved for people with disabilities, something that was not fulfilled. It was a permanent struggle with the city council. It is true that twenty-five years ago if you left home and had to go to the sink, you had to go home, because neither in my hometown nor in hospitals were there adapted bathrooms; in hospitals, where many people are supposed to go in wheelchairs and need to be adapted. And if you were flying to Barajas and you wanted to take a taxi, no taxi wanted to take you - none - because they didn't want to take the wheelchairs and then they didn't have to do it, so simply getting from Barajas to Madrid cost you a win or hide you and someone vertical - as we say to people with no disabilities - asked for the taxi and then you went out to ride. Businesses didn't want people with disabilities, and I've lived it in my own flesh - they didn't want it - they thought that people with disabilities couldn't and we didn't work, let alone in positions of responsibility, positions that fortunately we have today, but in the administration the same thing happened. I will remember a specific person, as is often done here - I will do it -: Antonio Miguel Gete-Alonso and Calera, tetraplegic, who prepared twenty-five years ago oppositions for tax inspector. I could not move my hands and asked the court - I have experienced this - to make the oral examination because I could not move my hands and the court replied, ladies and gentlemen, that this would be a privileged situation in relation to the other students who could not authorize it. Therefore, Antonio Miguel Gete-Alonso i Calera was preparing the opposition, studying the matter, and with a wire and a Bic pen learning to write in order to do the exam. Of course, today he is an inspector of the Treasury, but obviously he did it with an effort four, five or six times that of his colleagues. That was reality twenty-five years ago. [[Applauds]] I want to remember that because today is an important day for people with disabilities, even if there is one of us who is still looking at us with the tail of his eye and wondering if what we are asking for is right or not. There are still people like that, I'm telling you. But we are going to forget about these people and we are going to think that today not only because of the content of the law, because we have the right to be jurors just like the rest of the people, but precisely because it is an organic law - it has already been said here - because organic law is a supreme legislative source immediately inferior to the constitution, for me today - I say it to you from the heart - that we are amending an organic law that develops fundamental rights and public freedoms and that there we, people with disabilities, equate ourselves to the statutes of autonomy, the general electoral system, etc., and that there are the fundamental rights of people with disabilities, makes it a very beautiful day and I think it is a day to celebrate it and to celebrate it all for the unanimity that has been achieved in this amendment of organic law. I remember that it is nothing more merit, dear colleagues of the Cermi, than of people with disabilities, it is nothing more merit than of us. Let no one attempt to appropriate the flag of disability, please, let no one have that temptation. The years have shown me that the most vocal calling for our rights is the one who does the least when he can do so, prostitution always and once again disability and what that means. Facts, ladies and gentlemen, facts and not words, such as the one we are approving today and the one that will be approved today. I will not tire - I say this honestly - of thanking my party, my political group, for the opportunity that has given me to defend people with disabilities over and over again. I will always be in debt and always grateful to my political group, to the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] It was the first party that really gave a real voice to people with disabilities, the People's Party. [[Rumors]] I would also especially like to thank my colleagues in this particular amendment, María Jesús Moro, Carmen Dueñas and Silvia Valmaña. Thank you of course to the rest of the parties, thank you all, thank you all because you have all wanted to adopt this legislative reform, this progress and this new achievement of rights for people with disabilities unanimously. I will always be grateful to all of you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u11	Thank you very much. I would remind you once again that photographs cannot be taken in the Chamber, Mrs Lastra. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u12	We move on to the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on declarations of Members' activities. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó. [[Pause]] She's not here. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor. [[Pause]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Carreño Valero has the floor. [[Pause]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Sahuquillo García has the floor. [[Pause]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Barreda de los Ríos. [[Pause]] Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u13	We continue with the agenda item on the full debate on the proposal for a law on the establishment of a minimum income benefit in the field of social security protection. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled by your group, I have the floor, Mrs López Ares.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is presenting for debate and voting today this amendment to the entire alternative text to the popular legislative initiative on establishing minimum income provision in the field of social security. Ladies and gentlemen, to explain why it is necessary to go back to the past and see how that past has influenced the creation and evolution of benefits, which are well linked to the employability of workers, or those of a purely social nature. We must not forget that Spain has experienced in recent years one of the most serious and profound crises in recent history, a period of recession in which wealth and employment were destroyed. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not macroeconomic data, but micro data, because behind this destruction of wealth and employment there are people and families, more than 3.5 million Spaniards lost what allowed them to develop their life plan: employment. To restore this situation, in December 2011, when the People's Party came to the Government, a comprehensive package of shock relief measures was launched to alleviate the effects of that crisis, which allowed us to move forward without leaving anyone out and made possible a social exit, because our exit from the crisis was a social exit. The welfare state and our pension system remained, and that, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be said by all countries in our environment. Structural measures were also implemented in order to bring our economy into a reformist and modernizing process that would allow us to move from recession to growth and, above all, allow us to transform that growth rapidly into job creation. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation has returned, even if you deny it. I will give you some data, but not loose data, but compared to those collected in this popular legislative initiative, which correspond to the end of 2014. At that time, in 2014 - we must not forget that this is not the worst time of the crisis because we had already moved from recession to growth - the unemployment rate was 23% compared to 17.22% today. There were 5.9 million job seekers compared to 3.9 million in 2017; there were 3.1 million women job seekers compared to 2 million today. Youth unemployment was 51.8 per cent, down to 39.5 per cent. The number of households with all their active unemployed members was 1.8 million and today there are half a million fewer. As for income, its new mantra, the average income of Spanish households reached 26 730 euros in 2015, the last known figure, with an increase of 2.4% compared to the previous year, and the average income per person reached 10 708 euros, a figure of 2.8% higher than 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the data, which is the fixed picture of Spain at the end of 2014 compared to Spain in the autumn of 2017 and which shows the results of the successful economic and social policies launched by the Government of the People's Party. Along with employment and the quality of that employment, the People's Party has had another concern, namely that the crisis would not leave anyone behind. Ladies and gentlemen, I said at the beginning of my speech that shock measures were put in place and within them it is necessary not to forget the actions in all the administrations and in many areas developed in order to accompany those who were most affected by the crisis. It was the Government of the People's Party which, before its first hundred days of office, immediately suspended evictions for families at particular risk of exclusion, with the vote against, by the way, of the Socialist Group. It was a People's Party government that designed a comprehensive family support plan, with a budget of more than €54 billion per year. It was a Government of the People's Party that, in collaboration with the autonomous communities, expanded and created new programmes for those in unemployment, especially for the long-term unemployed. The Preparation Plan was improved and expanded, the Activation Plan for employment, as well as the active income for inclusion, was launched and we must not forget the measures for our young people, with the implementation of the Youth Guarantee. In short, these are income programmes always linked to active employment policies in order to improve the employability of our young people, of the long-term unemployed over forty-five years old, of people at risk of social exclusion and of people with disabilities, because, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party believes that the best social income is employment, that the best social income is the skills and skills that enable the worker to improve his or her job or find a job. Alongside these measures, the autonomous communities and local entities - the majority at that time governed by the People's Party - strengthened or designed a wide range of benefits and complements, all of which were put in place in order not to leave anyone out. But these urgent actions have had another effect, which is that at the moment in our country there is a system of benefits which corresponds to different administrations and which, as we have stated in the explanatory memorandum of this amendment, with the continuous changes that have been made has been reduced to coherence and confusion. Sample server the data from the last minimum income report for inclusion for 2015. The income of the seventeen communities and the two autonomous cities that have these measures must be added to the State-wide income: measures with different amounts, between 372 and 950 euros; different periods of duration, between six months and even in some cases indefinite; different requirements to be entitled to their perception; compulsory or not to participate in training and guidance programmes for employment; and even different conditions for their maintenance. In conclusion, economic aid for social emergencies must be added to all the above in the three areas: national, autonomous and local. In short, we have a complex, unequal and opaque system. It is therefore necessary to initiate a process of dialogue and joint work between the different levels of the administration and with the social partners with a view to establishing a truly effective, coherent and transparent system that allows real attention to be paid to needs and, at the same time, optimal use of each euro for this purpose. It is also necessary to clarify competition between administrations in order to avoid risks for collectors, as has already happened last July with the ruling of the Constitutional Court that put the Plan in jeopardy. That is why I repeat the opportunity of this amendment, because for the People's Party, before adding and creating a new benefit, it is necessary to know, first of all, what we have, being essential to clarify the map of existing benefits. Secondly, there is a need for a clear delineation of the competences of the State, the autonomous communities and local authorities in the creation, management and payment of benefits and aid to protect situations of need, both in the field of social security and in the field of employment and social assistance. In the clarification of the benefit map, work has already begun. The Conference of Autonomous Presidents - indeed, with many of the Socialist Party - which took place last January signed an agreement on the impetus of the universal social card. The purpose of this card is to advance the system of protection of the unemployed and the response to the most vulnerable families, since the establishment of a register of public social benefits will make it possible to know in real time the social benefits of economic content managed by different administrations and non-governmental organizations. This will make it possible to accurately detect situations of greatest vulnerability, avoiding unprotected situations, but at the same time ensuring that duplicates are accurately detected. In this way, the system will be transparent, and its effectiveness can be enhanced. Furthermore, this amendment is necessary because there is no way forward without a clear delineation of powers. Ladies and gentlemen, in the People's Parliamentary Group we are aware of the situation of confusion and the need for a competitive clarification. The Ministry of Employment is working and agreeing, both at the social dialogue table of the employment shock plan and with the Autonomous Communities at the Sectoral Conference on Employment and Labour Affairs or bilaterally with the rest of the Autonomous Communities, to review the supplementary protection programmes in order to bring them into line with the recent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative cannot be pursued in its initial proposal, as it could pose serious problems of unconstitutionality. We cannot forget Judgment 100/2017 in which the Constitutional Court ruled on the extension of the Plan.Prepares that the centralised management of this aid by the State Public Employment Service contravenes the constitutional order for the distribution of competences in the field of employment, which further affects the need for systematization. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I stress once again the reasons that led my group to present this alternative text, which proposes the creation of a working group to address the in-depth study of these issues and to clarify the competences of the General Administration of the State and of the Autonomous Communities, because, if it does not take place, the only thing that will be achieved with this initiative is to add more confusion to the map of benefits and more legal insecurity to the system of protection, without forgetting that the sustainability of the social security system would also be put at risk. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe, first of all, has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all of you. I am speaking on behalf of Nueva Canarias to defend the text of the proposal for a law on the establishment of a minimum income benefit in the field of social security protection. We believe that, apart from any other consideration, from the difficulties, from the financial over-effort around EUR 2 billion that should be achieved, if there is any problem that has posed this urgent society of truth, unreplaceable and unacceptable is to have broad layers of the population that have neither a future nor a possibility of having a dignified life, and this matter can be addressed with the urgency that is being considered. The popular legislative initiative that the Workers' Committees and UGT have put forward on this subject, with more than 700,000 signatures, is a good example of what needs to be done: we must act on the dramatic problem that the Spanish State has in relation to people who, having the will to work, cannot do so and do not have the conditions to develop a life that can be called minimally dignified. To the tremendous figures that are raised in the proposal for a law - I have to remember that there are more than 2 million boys and girls below the poverty line in the Spanish State -, I have to add that the canaries have one more in this case at the moment, we have the possibility of beating them all up; we have indicators that are really unacceptable and benefits from the social security system that the experts have labeled irrelevant. For this reason, not only because of the state question, but because of the need to deal with a problem which in the Canary Islands acquires dramatic hues, as in the whole state but in an aggravated way, we cannot support the amendment to the whole formulated and we will defend the text of the proposed law presented in due course. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1975, precisely the year in which the last dictator we suffered died, Pier Paolo Pasolini delivered what is possibly his wildest and most transgressive film: Saló or the 120 days of Sodom, a metaphor about the collective destructive impulse that is appropriated to those who have enjoyed absolute power and suddenly see themselves faced with the imminence of its inexorable end. I have reminded Pasolini in these days that demands for profound changes are met with restrictions on rights and freedoms, with censorship, with closures of ranks and with bellicose attitudes. In this climate of the end of imperfect democracy that we have had in the last forty years, we are now amazed at the presentation by the People's Party of the amendment being debated. Our Constitution enshrines as a fundamental right the direct participation of citizens in public affairs, including through popular legislative initiative. The unions Workers' Commissions and UGT, whose representatives I take advantage of to greet, collecting the feeling of the street favorable to full social inclusion, collected 710,000 accredited signatures that allowed them to bring us here, to the house of popular sovereignty, an articulated text that seeks to establish a more than necessary provision of minimum income for us to discuss and convert it already into law through the appropriate consensus. Faced with this, we find a mockery of the promoters of the initiative, of the signatories and of whom we embody the State Legislative Power. At this point, a law just to create a working group? But do you still not know the desperate situation of the nearly 2 million people who would benefit from the proposal? Or do they not know that in the last year in Spain the supposed economic recovery, for example, has increased by more than 20% the homeless people hosted in housing centres? The social insensitivity shown by this is obvious, but I am also concerned about democratic involution, because in its amendment we are in fact being asked by the legislature to make ourselves the harakiri, to renounce our functions and to pass the matter to the executive power, which, as we know, is currently acting as a power of power that only succeeds in allowing the problems to rot from here to eternity. What do they think we are? Figures that we just endorse the Executive in its irritating paralysis? We are in times of change, show them courage, meet social aspirations, do not want to empty the Legislative Power and, above all, do not fall into what Pasolini denounced: destructive impulse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canadés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u20	I'm speaking from the seat. We are going to reject this amendment to the whole of the Group of the European People's Party to this popular initiative promoted by the trade unions for formal reasons. It is clear that the text that the People's Group has advocated is not an amendment to the whole; in the face of an articulated text creating a non-contributory benefit in the social security system to meet the needs of the long-term unemployed, the amendment by the People's Party is limited to formulating a committee of study on this issue. It is very disrespectful of the effort made by the trade unions in this initiative and very disrespectful of the substantive issue that the trade union initiative seeks to resolve, which is the guarantee of minimum income for people without any kind of economic coverage. Only for that reason is the rejection of this initiative justified. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, it would be reasonable for the substantive issue in the People's Group's speech, which is the need to harmonise the package of State-dependent benefits to cover the insufficient coverage of the social security system's contribution and assistance benefits, to be transferred in partial amendments to the text of the legislative initiative to be dealt with. That would be reasonable and would also allow, for example, from the perspective that we have advocated in these debates, that this be a benefit managed by the Autonomous Communities. We reject the analyses that are being made that this trade union initiative represents a competitive invasion of the social assistance areas of the autonomous communities. Obviously not. The State may have a non-contributory benefit linked to Social Security in order to guarantee sufficient income to the people that the social security system in the current configuration cannot do, which is the great lesson of this crisis. The great lesson of the crisis is that the social security system in the face of long-term unemployment has no capacity and that the autonomous communities and municipalities cannot be expected to meet these needs. Finally, Madam President, today we have participated in this debate and we will be in this vote, among other things, to thank the commitment of the National Workers' Commission of Catalonia and the General Workers' Union of Catalonia to support the Catalan institutions and to defend the fundamental rights of the citizens of Catalonia. Yesterday the Workers' and UGT Commissions in Catalonia joined a civic platform in defense of democracy, in defense of rights and freedoms and today the Democratic Party wants to be allied also with the unions in defense of these social rights throughout Spain, and that is why we will reject this amendment of the People's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, good morning. Believe me when I say that this is not an easy debate for us because the proposal made today by the People's Party, under the formula of an amendment to the whole with an alternative text to a popular legislative initiative taken into consideration by this House, seeks not to address a debate that is underlying and that is present in society and that is too important. [[The lady]] None of you can escape that the social protection system referred to in the People's Legislative Initiative is apparently alluding to the possibility of creating a subjective right of a universal nature in order to be able to receive a minimum income income, but also - and possibly aware of its own difficulties, especially economic ones - is undergoing a transformation in its operative part to convert what it originally planned as a universal benefit into an assistance benefit linked, possibly, to unemployment. However, the amendment to the whole transforms this debate into a perpetual reflection aimed at the creation of a body that would - and he says so - address the completion of the current system of social protection and also the reorganization of that system of social protection, under the excuse of its systematization or codification. Therefore, in order to address this amendment to the popular legislative initiative and to know what we should stick to, we need to know fundamentally what we are talking about. What for the ILP is, in principle, a provision of the social security system and translates it into the introduction of a new chapter in Title X of the old consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security, for the amendment to the whole it simply becomes that work of systematization and codification and, yes, it points out that it must be respectful with the distribution of competences. As I said, they are not comparable propositions, we know what one of them refers to, but we do not know what the other is referring to. Social protection rests primarily on two constitutional mandates, two guiding principles for the performance of public authorities. Firstly, article 41 of the Constitution, which refers to the existence of a public social security system for all citizens, says that sufficient social assistance and benefits must be guaranteed in the face of situations of need, especially unemployment. I'm quoting those relevant aspects. Secondly, article 50 of the Constitution, which also requires the same public authorities to guarantee the economic sufficiency of citizens in the elderly, points to the need to put in place an adequate pension system on the one hand and a social service system on the other. The fact is that the materialization of these principles has led us over time to the proliferation of, first, different benefits, intending to cover different material situations; secondly, to the participation of different administrations and, lastly, to the use of different competitive titles. We know that the title of social assistance, which has been linked to the activity primarily of autonomous communities but also of local corporations, is based on article 148.1.20.a of the Constitution, allowing the existence of different aids complementary to the benefits of the social security system. On the other hand, we also know that article 149.1.17.a has allowed us to create a system of social security of our own in which the State is supposed to have the basis of the economic regime of that system - and, without prejudice to our eternal claim for transfers in this area that we claim through article 18.2 and the transitory fifth of the Statute - but the fact is that it has allowed the State and its institutions to assume certain benefits to which those articles 41 and 50 referred earlier. It remained to be seen what was happening with that aspect of employment, which does not have an express reference in principle in the constitutional text but does have it in different autonomous statutes such as that of the Basque Country, through the promotion of activities aimed at restoring attention to that economic situation through article 149.113.a Well, we have recently heard a judgment, on the 100/2017 of 20 July, of the Constitutional Court, which precisely addresses that particular situation, the bases and coordination of the overall planning of economic activity when they relate to active employment policies, and has pointed out that the implementation of the rules issued by the State under such title corresponds in principle to the autonomous communities, without the exercise of their powers - of that normative competence - being able to lead the State to disavail the autonomous communities from the statutory powers assumed. That has meant that the conflict raised by the Basque Government as a result of its understanding of articles 10.25 and 12.2 of the statute of autonomy has meant recognition that these aspects of implementation in the area of employment policies were their own, which leads us to place this debate in that debate. I mean, what are the consequences of either proposal? Well, the one we are dealing with today in the People's Party points to the precedent of that ruling, the 100/2017, and therefore alludes to those powers, to those of 149.1.7a and 149.1.3.a of the Constitution, but it also refers precisely to the creation of a universal social card, meaning that it deals in some way with article 148.1.20.a concerning social assistance, which is the competence of the autonomous communities, in respect of which it also demands a guiding function which it does - at least to us - to warn us. That mention also adds to the reference to the sectoral conference at which, finally and as a result of that constitutional sentence, it will have to be addressed in those parameters and within the framework of article 41 of the Constitution. But if we compare it with the ILP, with the popular legislative initiative that has already been taken into consideration, and while this, as I have said before, in its explanatory part was defined as a subjective right of a universal nature, finally it seems that it could end up as a subsidy in favour of the unemployed who exhaust the unemployment benefit and benefit and who are covered by the General Social Security Act. So, at least in this area and regardless of the discrepancies that we can maintain, if we have a recognised ground, we have a specific text that we can address and certain purposes for which we can express our predisposition and we can amend. In that regard, my group has understood that it is appropriate not to shift the debate into a vacuum, but to move it into a concrete text. We believe that it is preferable to submit to consideration the text already taken into consideration by the ILP rather than a generic reference to the creation of a body whose achievement of objectives, whose completion has not been made clear at any time. We therefore understand that it does not deserve our approval, but rather our reprobation, and we will vote against this proposal for an amendment by the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are once again discussing the establishment of a minimum income benefit in the field of social security, a debate already held in February, and I believe that our parliamentary group made it clear that we did not like it and that we did not see that a minimum income benefit was the solution to combat long-term unemployment and youth unemployment. As we said at the time, basically three are the reasons that led us to vote against the consideration of this proposal. The first of these is a clear reason for financing, for cost. I believe that the solution is not to create a benefit on the benefits we already have and more when it costs us around EUR 12 000 or 15 billion, which we will not be able to pay if it is not with a massive increase in taxes, which we are going to deny face-to-face, or by establishing cuts in items such as health or education, which are policies that, from our point of view, help to equal opportunities and therefore to fight poverty. The second of the reasons is incentives. We believe that subsidies are not what the unemployed want. The unemployed want to work, find a job and, therefore, the public resources that the public authorities have at our disposal, we have to invest them in that, in creating jobs and in helping the unemployed to find adequate employment. The third problem - and I think the most important one - is one of concept. It says the proposed law specifically which aims to guarantee minimum income to all those who can and want to work cannot do so. That is the change of concept we want to make. We want people who can and want to work to be able to do so, and this requires, ladies and gentlemen, a change in the paradigm, a change in the map of benefit policies in Spain. We are advocates - we have always said this - of the flexicurity model. In this country in recent years we have made progress on the first part of the word, in the model of flexibility. It is true that policies have been implemented that have helped to cushion the shock of the severe crisis and that our companies can adapt, but it is true that we have failed in the second part of the sentence, in the security model, understood as accompanying or establishing a security or protection against the worker rather than the job, especially in the transit from unemployment to employment. We are seeing this with the high numbers of long-term youth unemployment that we still have and that we have not known or had the capacity to solve. Our solution is to invest more and invest better in active employment policies. If we see the resources we spend as a country with regard to employment policies, 88 per cent is devoted to these passive policies, such as minimum incomes, and only 12 per cent to active employment policies. But the problem is no longer just the amount we invest, but where we invest it, and there - we do not say so, as the European Commission also says - we also suspend the transparency of active policies and the results of management. Since we arrived in this Chamber we have fought to change these paradigms, we have fought to invest more - we did so in 2017 in the negotiations with the People's Party - in active employment policies, we have fought to bring a statistical profile that allows the public employment services, which are the least intermediate in Europe - only intermediate 2% -, to offer suitable placements to our unemployed, and also by the training check so that our unemployed can choose what their training is and can be relocated, by the wage supplement for young people accompanied by powerful active employment policies or by the creation of the Institute for job evaluation precisely so that we do not remain dependent on evaluation policies. But to these problems that I have said is added a new one - the previous speakers have said - and that is that we are facing a competition problem - the Constitutional Court has told us this in the judgment of 20 July this year - because we are facing a confused map of benefits, clearly in need of clarification of competition. For many years the autonomous communities have been creating different care benefits, but the State has also been creating certain protections and benefits for the long-term unemployed, such as the Preparation or EAP plans, which are also associated with important active employment policies, where, as I say, the Constitutional Court has told us that there is a competition problem. That is why we believe that it is necessary to review the various benefit and benefit programmes, as well as the mechanisms for protecting unemployment, not only with the autonomous communities, not only with the social partners, but also with the Administration, which has something to say. We will therefore support this amendment as a whole as proposed by the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo Estaún. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs. Franco Carmona has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u26	Thank you, President. I was going to say good morning to your ladies and gentlemen today, but I can only give them to a little more than half of the people who are here, to them and to the representatives of the Workers' Commissions and UGT, who are following with great interest the trajectory of their initiative. For this side, the right side, I have worse news, it's a little crooked in the morning. I must acknowledge to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, the surprise capacity you have, but it is a shame that this surprise capacity is for the defachability and contempt you have for democracy and for the people who are going through the worst in our country, and of course for my country as well. We are debating today a popular legislative initiative of the Commissions and UGT, as I said before, which opens up a debate that gets to the heart of our country's problems, and it is poverty. Popular legislative initiatives are reflected in article 87.3 of the Spanish Constitution as a tool of direct democracy. This popular legislative initiative has achieved 700,000 signatures, meeting more than enough the requirement of the 500 000 signatures, which I say to you is quite demanding. And today the People's Party is presenting an amendment that completely fulcrums the text of the popular legislative initiative. They want to derive what has been treated with this initiative as a subjective right towards a working group, an expert group or a study group that analyses the different minimum incomes that exist in the Spanish State, as if that did not already exist. I recommend that you take a walk through the Public Service of State Employment and the website of the Autonomous Communities because they will find all the information there. Moreover, with this popular legislative initiative they not only intend to fulmine the text in its entirety, but they want to create this study group controlled by the Government, taking care of that little direct democracy that is contained in the Constitution and that cannot increase spending. What then will this initiative serve? I'll explain something to you. I'm going to give them a little patience and I'm going to give them a hand because I see they're a little lost. There is no need for a law to create a six-month working group, no need. [[Applauds]] The Government already has more than enough power to set up this working group and all those who need it. That's part of your management work, that's on your payroll. I'm going to explain one more thing to you, I'm going to take one more step, because I see that you're not only lost in government management, but you're also lost in Congress. I will explain to you how the process of legislative initiatives works. Amendments to the whole, Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure: 'They will be amendments to the whole which deal with the opportunity, the principles or the spirit of the bill...' On the opportunity, it must be that they do not think it appropriate to deal with an initiative that can benefit families below the poverty line. In the spirit of the bill, the eradication of inequality in Spain is not included in its electoral programme. On the principles - there I understand it a little bit more - is that to you social justice, the dignity of our people does not interest you at all. They could have voted against, which was what they really wanted to do, instead of going through the bad drink of doing the ridiculous by proving that they are really bad managers and, moreover, a danger to democracy and social rights. [[Applauds]] You claim that this law invades jurisdiction, and that's a lie. It does not invade any competence of the Autonomous Communities. The Constitutional Court's ruling of 20 June was to say that this cannot be an obstacle for a very simple reason, and that is that this minimum income does not go to SEPE, does not go to the State Employment Public Service, it goes to Social Security, which is indeed state competence, ladies and gentlemen. You said that this was going to be the legislature of dialogue and that it was very important for you to dialogue with the social partners, and it turns out that the same day you are talking with the trade unions you are presenting this amendment. But, of course, you do not like democracy at all, you break it every day; you break the law every day. Congressional lawyers have said this about the misuse of parliamentary vetoes. You only govern for the banks and their friends, and use and retort the democratic mechanisms to do your will. Wash your mouth before talking about patriotism, because they don't love this country or work for its people. And now that you have taken off your face and have taken off your orange crutch too, you can make it clear: you are annoyed by social rights; you give equal to the more than two million long-term unemployed in our country, and you also give equal to half of the unemployed in our country have no income. Say it, say it in truth, vote against this popular legislative initiative, instead of presenting this shameful amendment. Between 2011 and 2017, they have reduced unemployment benefit budgets by 45% with measures such as the abolition of the benefit for those over fifty-two years of age. The measures they have taken are, for example, the Preparation Plan, the RAI and activation for employment, which are just patches that demand a lot of requirements and, in addition, are very short-lived. They are patches that all they do is stigmatize poverty. And that's where you go, wanting to give a poor card to the people who are worst going through it in our country, so that you don't forget that you're poor and you can't lift your head. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. You have not spent 36% of the Employment Activation Programme budget, and with that money, if we talk about numbers, you could have paid this minimum income for eighteen years. I'm going to give you a few very simple examples, because I see you lost. If you stopped stealing a single year, we could pay the dignity, with this rent, for two and a half years to most of our country. If you did well as good managers, we could guarantee for another four years the dignity of the people who are going through the worst in our country; or rather, if we could recover the money from the rescue to the banks, the 40 billion euros you have given to the banks, we could pay this minimum income for three years. I'm done. This initiative is not perfect. We have just introduced an initiative to launch an income guarantee plan, as a first step towards a basic income. Our group understands that this is one of the central problems of our country, and this was also understood by the 700,000 people who signed this popular legislative initiative. When it comes to defending the rights of our people, of our people, you will have us in front of you and your orange crutch. They won't get away with it today.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u27	Mrs. Franco, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u28	Today, in front of the People's Party Government, we are going to do patriotism and we are going to defend our people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Ramón Utrabo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u30	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, let me welcome and congratulate once again the representatives of the workers, the General Workers' Union and the Workers' Commissions, as drivers of this initiative; an initiative that the People's Party today wants to carry with it a pen with premeditation and relief. From my group, from the Socialist Group, we have already shown our strongest rejection of this evil so-called amendment to the whole. [[Applauds]] You, from the beginning, have been expanding this initiative that began its course in 2015. The consideration of this bill is discussed in the plenary session of February 2, 2017, five months later, being approved by 177 votes in favour and 165 against, of the People's Party and Citizens' Party. And seven months after the full amendment deadline has been extended seventeen times, you are presenting this amendment. That demonstrates your intention, your intention to eliminate this initiative and what interests you people who are really having a bad time. I do not think I receive the proposal you have, and I do not think so for a number of reasons. According to the Legal Encyclopedia, amendments to the whole may postulate the return of the text or present an alternative version. In theory, the People's Party today brings an alternative text, but what is the text? The text literally implies taking the initiative and setting up a working group; that is the solution. It seems to me to be an authentic hairdo and a lack of total respect for the citizenry. I remind you that the Constitution provides for the direct participation of citizens in the process of normative production, shaping the people as the subject of the legislative initiative. This is regulated by article 87.3 of the Spanish Constitution. And what does this article and its subsequent regulation in organic law allow? On the one hand, it enables the direct participation of the sovereign, who is the people, in the task of drawing up the rules governing the life of the citizens, and on the other, it enables the opening of ways to propose to the Legislature the adoption of rules whose need is widely felt by the electorate. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, about participation, and today you are violating popular sovereignty by means of a piece of dubious legitimacy. [[Applauds]] The proposal proposes the establishment of a minimum income benefit, as its own name indicates, within the social security system, generating a new scope of protection for persons without employment or resources. When I heard his lordship speak before, it seemed that we were living in different countries. Spain's reality is that there are 4 million people unemployed, 2 million of whom do not receive any kind of benefit and that there is absolutely no income in more than 700,000 households. I find it indecent to talk about economic recovery when in this country the poor are becoming poorer, the rich are becoming richer, the wealth gap is widening more and more and that supposed economic recovery that you preach to the four winds benefits those who have more. [[Applauds]] And this is not what I say, many economic reports say, including that of Intermon Oxfam, called 'Spain: an economic growth that leaves vulnerable people out'. The title of this report is in line with the debate we have here right now. I do not have time to go into detail in the policy of cuts and austerity that you have carried out during these years of government, but I would like to give some examples. As a result of these policies, in which, for example, you lower the unemployment benefit from 180 days to 50% or harden all the conditions for beneficiaries to have access to certain benefits, the reality is that the coverage rate of the unemployment protection system is in free fall: just 54 per cent of the coverage rate compared to the 70 per cent we had in 2011. The groups most affected by this lack of protection against unemployment have been the long-term unemployed, whose situation is being chronicled, with more than 1 700 000 people. And if, at the same time, we combine the status of being a woman with permanent unemployment, the situation is even more dramatic. Being a woman and a long-term unemployed means being 85 per cent likely not to be a recipient of any kind of benefit. The reality of this country is that less and less is spent per unemployed person. The most affected, as I have said, are the long-term unemployed, who, moreover, do not have reinsertion or retraining measures; the elderly, women and young people, who cannot access the protection system by tightening access requirements. You know that current benefits are not enough to cover social needs. The economic crisis and policies of the Government of the People's Party have led to an alarming increase in inequalities and social protection mechanisms have been weakened and show a frustrating inability to correct those inequalities. That is why the position of our group, of the Socialist Group, is to vote against this amendment because, as we have said, it does not propose a system other than that of the initiative to address the growth of poverty and social exclusion in our country; it derives exclusively from what can be agreed in a working group. What you bring here today is fraud, fraud in the legislative procedure because, as has been said, there is no alternative. It is, moreover, particularly hurtful to the individuals and families who would benefit from the initiative, because they would have to continue to wait for the working group to complete its work in order to be able to meet their needs. Finally - and you know it - for the creation of this working group it is not necessary to pass any law. Why has the Government not set up this working group before? Does the problem of inequality and insufficient resources in the protection system not seem urgent enough to them? In short, gentlemen of the People's Party, this group could already have created it if they had real intention of meeting these needs. We will not allow them, as they did in the course of the initiative, to call us demagogues again either on the part of the People's Party or on the part of Citizens, because this situation can and must be addressed. Do not call us demagogues the same ones that from the government put 40 billion euros for the rescue of the bank and it seemed that, instead of a rescue, the government had touched Euromillion. [[Applauds]] I ask you not to put obstacles to what is our obligation as political leaders, even beyond our moral obligation. It is a social cry that we must protect the most vulnerable people and that is what the popular legislative initiative seeks. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ramon Utrabo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u32	We turn to the agenda item on the agreement of the Equality Commission on the report of the subcommittee on a state pact on gender-based violence. For the presentation of the report, I have the floor on behalf of the Commission, Mrs Cancela Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u33	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The subcommission for a State Pact on Gender Violence, created within the Equality Commission, was the result of the adoption by the Plenary, at its meeting on 15 November 2016, of a non-legislative proposal for the promotion of a State Pact on Gender Violence by the Government of the nation, the autonomous communities and cities with autonomy status, as well as the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, in order to link all political parties, State powers and civil society in a firm commitment to a sustained policy for the eradication of gender violence. The same non-legislative proposal included the creation of a subcommission within the Equality Commission, which had as its objective the articulation of the pact. In fulfilment of this mandate, the Equality Commission, at its meeting on 30 November, agreed to the creation of the above-mentioned subcommission on the basis of a proposal made by all parliamentary groups. In turn, the House voted in favour of its creation on 21 December. The period initially granted to him to complete his work was four months from the time of his creation, although this authorisation was extended in three successive extensions until 31 July 2017, and then proceeded to his own authorisation. On 1 February, the subcommission was set up, and its work plan was also agreed, which included quotas for requests for appearances that could be made by each parliamentary group. Accordingly, the subcommission held 66 appearances and 43 meetings. On 1 June, the appearances were concluded and the working sessions began with a view to the drafting of the report. I would like to convey, on behalf of all the parliamentary groups, our gratitude to all those present for their time, generosity and qualified contributions. [[Applauds]] The pact is made up of two essential axes, the proposals arising from the appearances and the proposals made by the various parliamentary groups of the House. Hence the significance of the contents exposed in those. To these appearances it is necessary to add those contributions in writing of numerous professional organizations, associations and social entities which, by applying to appear, was not possible because of the condition of the deadline and the large number of requests sent to the Chair of the Equality Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the new challenge of facing for the first time the elaboration of a document constituting the pillars on which a state pact is based, not only novel in the conception and procedural iter, but urgent and necessarily solid in its contents, given the subject matter we are dealing with. The document before the plenary today contains an extract from the background and appearances held, as well as the body of the structured report as follows. It begins with a first section on the diagnosis of the situation, which analyses the nature of gender-based violence, as well as the normative and other instruments that have been tried to address it, both at the national and international levels. The persistence of gender-based violence in our society is also reflected in statistical data as a global and structural problem that needs to be resolved. In view of this situation, paragraph 2 of the report analyses the urgent need for an institutional, political and social consensus against gender-based violence involving the entire society, taking advantage of the positive results already achieved and identifying dysfunctions and shortcomings in order to provide an effective response to the problem. The report assumes the elimination of gender-based violence as a challenge for society as a whole that requires united and coordinated action in the actions that take place. This section also defines the content of the pact that forms part of this report on the basis of ten structural axes, which are: awareness-raising and prevention, improvement of institutional response, improvement of assistance, assistance and protection of victims, assistance and protection of minors, promotion of training of different actors, statistical monitoring, recommendations to public administrations and other institutions, visualization and care of other forms of violence against women, economic commitment and monitoring of the pact. Finally, the third subparagraph contains, under the heading of Proposals for Action, a total of 213 measures structured on the basis of the above-mentioned axes, specifically including the main reforms that must be undertaken in order to implement the aims outlined, as well as the recommendations of the international agencies, the United Nations and the Istanbul Convention. Each of these 213 proposed measures, and all of them as a whole, improve the situation of women victims of gender-based violence and their daughters and children, each and every one of them. Let me highlight just a few examples: the breaking of silence through awareness-raising and prevention in the educational sphere; including in all educational stages the prevention of gender-based violence and egalitarian values; including educational content in equality and specific teacher training; carrying out prevention and awareness-raising campaigns aimed at citizens; reviewing their content to focus on the abuser; having young people as their preferred recipients; and not forgetting the groups with functional diversity or considering the rural sphere because of their specific circumstances. Treatment in the media is essential, their commitment to gender-based violence and its decisive eradication, as well as preventive measures in the field of sport, work and health are essential. Improving institutional response through coordination is essential. The areas of the various administrations should give priority to policies against macho violence, specialized support of the victim from the complaint to the judicial resolution, comprehensive social assistance and individualized follow-up. In the area of security, a strategic plan must be implemented to communicate and share information between the computer databases of the various public administrations - prisons, judicial bodies, State Security Forces and Bodies, health centres and social services - nominally, as can be, for example, between the Viogen and Siraj system. In the area of justice, we must broaden the concept of gender-based violence to all types of violence against women contained in the Istanbul Convention, which brings with it the need to make the relevant legislative changes: to remove the attenuating factor of confession in crimes of gender-based violence, as well as reparation for damage. With regard to the improvement of assistance, assistance and protection of victims, secondary victimization should be avoided and the adequacy and resources of gender-based violence courts should be improved with more means and better facilities, the establishment of comprehensive forensic assessment units, the design of a plan for accompanying and advising the victim - personalized judicial support -, the prohibition of communications through social networks as a precautionary measure or as a penalty for deprivation of rights, the establishment of police units with specific training in gender-based violence that pay attention 24 hours a day and every day of the week, the improvement of the situation of unemployed women victims through the active income of insertion and article 27 of the Organic Law 1/2004, the training of primary care professionals for the early detection of gender-based violence and the creation of interdisciplinary teams in health centres. In order to promote training to ensure a better care response, it is envisaged to promote specialized training for media, administration of justice, state security forces and bodies, lawyers, health and educational professionals. The treatment and statistical follow-up of all allegations and forms of violence against women included in the Covenant should be improved; viewing and covering other forms of violence against women, such as sexual violence and its typologies; drafting a comprehensive law against trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, awareness-raising campaigns and awareness-raising workshops aimed at young people to discourage prostitution, as well as implementing emergency protection tools for victims of forced marriages. Ladies and gentlemen, this pact is endowed with an economic commitment sequenced in the years 2018 to 2022. The budget increases are reflected in the resources of the Government delegation, the ministries with competence in this area, the municipalities and the autonomous communities. We are talking about an overall increase figure to cover the measures provided for in this 1000 million euro pact, to be distributed over the next five years, an additional 100 million for local authorities, an additional 500 million for the autonomous communities and an additional 400 million for the state powers. I take it that each parliamentary group individually considered had drawn up a different document; in some there are many aspects, including assumptions not included or excluding others. The enormous strength of the document before this plenary today is that it emerges from the consensus of all the groups in the subcommittee created for that purpose. The search for agreement involves giving up some positions to seek common meeting points with the ultimate objective of benefiting all, which in the case we are dealing with is nothing but to minimize the assumptions of gender-based violence step by step in order to end up eradicating it. I thank each of your members of the subcommittee for their enormous work, their ability to give up positions on the part, their constructive spirit, their vehemence in the debate and their shared emotion. It is impossible not to suffer in the face of suffering, how difficult it was to face the working sessions of this subcommission so many times knowing more cases of vile sexist murders of women or their daughters and children, or to hear tearing testimonies of surviving victims; courageous women with violent sequelae visible in their body that will always accompany them, as well as those others not tangible to the senses of others but equally tearing and profound. I would also like to thank the services of the House for their great professionalism and skills. Surely we share all and all who integrate the subcommission that personalizes that recognition in our lawyer. Thank you, Mercedes Senen. You have a lot of responsibility for their achievement. [[Applauds]] I cannot let this occasion pass without thanking the contributions, struggle and example of the feminist movement, as well as the fact that it has been and remains the momentum and strength that has made possible the conquest of so many rights and freedoms for women. Without your conquests we would have taken much longer or would have been impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, gender-based violence is fear, pain, impotence, guilt, suffering, loneliness and above all silence; the victim's own silence threatened by fear, the silence of the environment he does not want to see or hear, and the complicit silence of a society that generally considers to be a subject of two or a subject of others or others. As long as we do not break down the walls of fear and silence, the violence exercised by men against women by mere being so will not die. Since we have statistics on the murders of women at the hands of their partners, ex-pairs or those who want to be, and do not understand no, in Spain we have more than 800 women victims of sexist terrorism. This year we have already been 37, for not counting 4 daughters and children along with them. In 2016, there were 390 complaints of male violence per day in our country, totaling 134 462 complaints throughout the year, according to the annual report of the Observatory against Domestic and Gender Violence of the General Council of the Judiciary, which represents an increase of 11% over the previous year. There are more and more complaints, but it is a very difficult process for women; so much so that 80 per cent of abused women will never report it. The dimension of sexist violence was overwhelming and, if we broaden the concept to what was meant by gender-based violence, extrapolation was shocking: forced marriages, genital mutilation, trafficking in women and girls for sexual exploitation and sexual assault. It is sluggish and insulting to talk about concepts such as parental alienation syndrome or false complaints, when they represent only 0.18% of those filed between 2009 and 2016 according to the report of the Attorney General's Office. They are manifestations - how many still persist! - of the most recalcitrant alienating patriarchy. That is why new generations of young people are so important. Precisely, there is a worrying increase in conduct that violates the principle of effective equality and neo-ochisms - or not so new - that are, together with the usual manifestations, new ways to rape women. Let us give priority attention to the new generations and act as soon as possible. The subcommittee unanimously adopted this report with the content that we presented on 24 July. In turn, the Equality Commission proceeded to its debate and approval at its 28th meeting of the same month, with the abstention of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. At the same meeting, a number of particular votes were adopted by a majority vote of the parliamentary groups, which appear as resolutions incorporated in the adoption document by the Commission. It was also unanimously agreed in the Equality Commission to request the debate in plenary, which is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u34	Mrs. Cancela, you've overtaken your time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u35	I'm done, President. Thank you for your patience. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about freedoms and rights, human dignity and democracy. It is not possible to speak of democracy if more than half of citizens do not fully enjoy their rights and freedoms. Gender-based violence is the most brutal sign of inequality, because it is directed against women because it is simply because it deprives them of the most basic rights of respect and ability to decide. In conclusion, it provides for the establishment of a permanent, non-legislative monitoring committee. Its purpose, as can easily be deduced, is to ensure the implementation and enforcement of agreements, as well as the evaluation of results. It is the responsibility of the Government of the nation in a remarkable way to promote and make possible the implementation of the proposals provided for in the agreement, as well as its budget allocation; the autonomous communities and local entities, their share, and the House itself, with regard to the legislative measures to be developed.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u36	Mrs. Cancela, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u37	This text is not an end in itself, it is a means of eradicating gender-based violence, and we still have much to do. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us continue to do our work to break the silences and crush the fears; let us build a democratic society with living women, with rights and free. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cancela Rodríguez. For the defence of the particular votes cast, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u39	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to greet and thank the groups of women who have worked for years, feminist sectors and sectors working in the specific field of gender-based violence, for their presence on an important day for the women of this country, for the children of this country and for the men of this country. I would also like to start by showing my complaint because, despite the attempts of this Member for personal interest and my political strength for political interest, we have not been allowed to participate. I hope that it will not happen again; being a state pact involving all political forces and all institutions, we were not allowed to participate in the Commission that was created. It was not a question of voting, it was a question of contributing; let us hope that in those new committees that will be set up, when it comes to the state pact, we will be all the political forces and not the representatives of the parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]] In any case, this, as the previous Member very well said, is a start. Forty-eight hours ago, a courageous twenty-two-year-old woman went to report that she was threatened, and as the protocol is that when a woman goes to report the first thing she does is call the assailant to testify, the next hour she was killed. We still have a problem; that cannot happen, especially because we all know that those first days, those first hours are the most difficult on a personal level, the bravest and the most complicated. There is something wrong here because, as specialists and lawyers said yesterday, even in a very quick case, up to forty-eight hours after the complaint do not begin the measures to protect women. That's why I'm saying today's a start. I also want to say that in the case of the Canary Islands - they won't believe it and they will say: this one already comes out with the Canary Islands, but it is true - it is much more difficult. When you are in La Gomera it is impossible for your attacker not to know that you are in La Gomera; if you are in El Hierro or on the island of La Palma, it is impossible for your attacker not to know how you move, where you live, where the children go. And we have to change the island victims. It sounds silly, but that happens in my land. That means we have to have the resources adapted. All this will remain in nothing if we do not change the laws, if we do not know and especially if there is no financial record; the commitment of all the political forces of the Government must be that there is a financial record in the State, in the autonomous communities and in the municipalities, and where it is not possible, to cover the rest of the institutions. I had only two minutes for a debate that lasted a year but in which I was unable to participate. I had a lot to say. I end up mentioning a daughter of a person I knew. Sixteen years old, Paula, who almost killed her, came out of that and today she is a militant, a courageous and proud person who has remade her life, who is studying in college and who had to fight against everyone to raise her voice. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas González-Moro. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u41	Egun on. Firstly, although no one expects the opposite at this stage, for Euskal Herria Bildu a state pact, whatever the issue to be addressed by it, is something alien in what he has no intention of getting involved because any pact of this nature valid for our group would have to be addressed within the geographical and territorial framework of Euskal Herria. In the case before us, in addition to this point of principle, the document itself, which is put to the vote, is an argument for us to vote for the abstention, because we are not going to hinder anything either. Even if you understand that it's a step forward, it's short. We believe it is important that there is no need for a prior complaint in the future in order for a woman to be considered a victim and therefore to be able to receive assistance. But something as important as addressing all sexist violence is left on the road, without limiting it to the partner or ex-partner, because the reality is much broader and needs to be addressed in its entirety. We have serious doubts as to whether the measures in question will be implemented, as there are no guarantees that they will be implemented. We believe that the educational sphere, for example, is very important, but it should not be limited to classrooms, it must also be taken into account all that happens outside of them in all matters relating to the leisure of youth. The agreements, in order for them not to be left on wet paper, must be accompanied by a budget for their implementation, concrete action plans with indicators of compliance, accountability mechanisms and, if not, nothing. No one guarantees that this time it will be any other way. So far, every time there was a step forward, it was unfortunately accompanied by setbacks soon. We believe it is time to talk less and do more in this matter and the cases that have been talked about and much this summer, such as that of Juana Rivas, show us that things are not doing too well. This particular case has been very media, the reality is more broad and dramatic unfortunately, a complex reality that tells us about sexist violence, not gender-based violence, and that calls for comprehensive action that has not been incorporated into this document. Therefore, progress is, but not enough, and for the two issues that I have said our group will not object to this pact moving forward and abstaining. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u42	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet also has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u43	Thank you, President. To Compromise this covenant is a sufficiently peeled, and very generous, like that teacher who approves you by the effort but you really have a four and peak, which in the end you have not reached the minimum competencies. That is for Compromise this supposed pact of state, and I say it is supposed because it is a political pact, because it may be an institutional pact, but we have lost the opportunity for it to be a social pact. It is a political pact because we were some political parties that we have been negotiating for hours sitting in front of a table discussing nomenclatures, competences and measures, but we have not all been - as the previous comrades have already said - because of the Joint Group, of seven formations, five have remained out, and it is not because they were not interested in the subject but because they were given no choice. It may be an institutional pact, as the various measures will make it necessary to negotiate with the autonomous governments and with the municipalities. Let us see, Minister, how you manage to negotiate with the territorial governments. In some of them, as is the case in the Valencia Country, we have made a much more courageous pact than this and obviously for us the Valencian pact deserves much more note. Let us hope that this negotiation will not constrain our freedom of action. And here comes the other part, this will never be a social pact. Contrary to what we have done in the Valencià Country, the social entities have been left out of this pact, they have not wanted to listen to them during the process, nor before the approval of it, and we believe it will be very costly for them to be heard during their evaluation. So enough naked and a little disappointment, I'm not gonna fool you. For feminists this was a historic milestone and being able to participate in this negotiation was almost a privilege. We know all that we've been there what it cost, the tensions and the reproaches, and all the sensibilities we've had to couple to fit all this and we've sacrificed a lot. But we still have hope, the partials in autonomy, as I said before. In our case, we have the Valencian pact, which is truly political, institutional and social, a pact so transgressive that it has included feminist entities in its negotiation and that it recognizes something as transgressive as all Machist violence. We've gone a little crazy in the Valencià Country and decided to include all the Machist violence in our pact. If we've got something good out of this process, it's been funding, a funding that I personally lost my skin in. The insistence was heaviness and the companions know it, but in the end there are 500 million euros for the autonomy, which are the ones that have the majority of competences in the fight against macho violence. For us a whole achievement. So enough naked, yes critical, in the hope that this will serve to tell the abuser that we are at war and that he is our goal. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sorlí Fresquet. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Violence against women is the most brutal expression of the inequality between men and women. We therefore start from the philosophy that we must work equally to try to eradicate it; to more equality, less space for violence in its many manifestations. Surely all of us present in this House share this almost founding idea of the unfortunate social phenomenon of gender-based violence, violence against women by their partners, ex-partners or people with whom they have maintained a sentimental relationship. A violence that, as emphasized, is the very basis of the atrocity that it is, is exercised by the fact of being a woman. I don't know if we've reached a state pact. I believe that we have made a document so that a state pact may be reached later. A pact of State that we do not understand as a pact for the State to make; that is, we have reached an agreement in which there are a number of recommendations and questions and each one will have to exercise his or her functions according to his or her abilities and competences. If there are two basic and central issues on which we have agreed in the subcommittee and when drawing up the document, there have been two. One, that this type of violence is a violation of human rights and as such it must be considered in all areas and, two, that it is a question that goes beyond the private sphere to the social sphere, becoming a question of State, State not in the geographical or even political sense, because it goes beyond the borders of what is State, but of public responsibility: that it concerns everyone and that we must all respond. We also share the majority that the visibility of this violence has put face and eyes on something that, underground, remained within the framework of privacy, as I mentioned earlier, to become a social problem. We have talked a great deal about this and we will continue to do so whenever necessary, whenever necessary to move forward, to correct and improve policies for prevention, assistance or the adoption of new even legislative measures. After numerous speeches and appearances and after long working hours - for which I would like to thank publicly here the services of the House and the colleagues who have been in the Commission - a basic consensus was reached on a number of subjects which we could sum up in two large blocs. One, prevention area, which includes education, awareness raising, coordination of different actors, etc., and two, the area of response in all areas: judicial, police, institutional, protection, victim assistance, exit opportunities, social protection, economic protection, etc. It's not as simple or as basic, surely, but our work has been aimed at covering these two large areas. I do not know if we have succeeded, it is clear that there were moments with discrepancies, which referred more to the environment of the casuistic and origin of violence than to the fact itself. We also disagree - and quite strongly - on the scope of the proposed measures, as well as on the institutional and action approach that they should have. But so and so, and from prisms and political positions I would not say that antagonistic but opposed, we agree on the fundamental, although there was no unanimity, as you know well. The truth is that we have achieved an imperfect agreement not to have led to a perfect disagreement, which is the easiest in these cases. We all made contributions and resignations, and with all legitimacy my group even proposed that discrepancies could be included in the text. Why not? No one demands unconditional membership, but better to agree on that than to stay out. The Chairperson said in her speech, Pilar Cancela, that we sometimes started meetings of the Commission and the Sub-Commission with news of murdered women. That is very hard, of course, and it was very difficult to deal with that situation because of the responsibility we had in terms of whether or not we were able to give an answer. But I remembered - of course with all the respect of the world for murdered women - let me say, of all those unkilled women who suffer from abuse and gender-based violence every day of their lives. Evidently that darkness in which these women are in, that lack of visibility is what made us have to do something effective, something positive, something truly valid. In any case, we believe that the methodology and respect for the competence to deal with this problem are fundamental and we have made this known by means of a reservation that is embodied in the text. The competence of those who have to exercise the relevant subjects must be made clear. In Euskadi we have responded well, not only by Emakunde, the Basque Institute for Women, but also by a number of other institutions that are involved in this matter. There is no doubt that an ill-treated woman is an ill-treated woman, here and in Afghanistan, which is why it is a matter that transcends. We always look down, as if it were not an autonomous issue; no, but it is not a State issue either, it is a European and even a global issue. As for the particular votes cast by other groups, I would like to point out that the alternative text that Podemos presents does not seem right to us. It is a sum of particular votes but in substance it is an alternative text. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u46	Wait a minute. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u47	Thank you, Madam President. I was saying, as far as individual votes are concerned, that the particular vote of Podemos - or the sum of individual votes, which is a sort of amendment to the whole - does not seem right to us. They will have their reasons for taking off at the last moment of the common text, as they did, but we will not support it because it would be opening another debate with another perspective that we do not share in its entirety although we can agree - and they know it - on a number of issues. Furthermore, there are votes from other groups that we will defend and others that we believe relate to a debate that we must certainly deal with, such as prostitution or subrogated pregnancy, etc., but which we do not think should be included in this debate. We have a lot of issues in this debate to frame and focus on. For all that said, we hope that the document that has been achieved and that I trust that we all support will do just that, so that there are no more murdered women, so that there are no more abused women, but above all so that no one thinks that this can be done. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea Urresti. Mrs Jordà has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u49	Very good day to all and to all, ladies and gentlemen, Members, comrades and colleagues of the Committee on Equality and the Subcommittee on the State Pact. Madam Minister, my first words wish to be of remembrance to Natividad Yarza, the first woman mayor of the Catalan countries and the Spanish State. Nativity Yarza was born in Valladolid and was elected mayor of Bellprat in 1934 to represent the Republican Left of Catalonia. Today, from this rostrum, I claim her figure as a teacher, her figure as a republican and obviously also her figure as a woman. We live in a patriarchal society, a society that discriminates against 50% of the population because of the mere fact of being a woman, a society in which women are raped, in which we are assaulted, discriminated against and killed for our gender. It is not a point problem - we have said it millions of times - it is a structural problem; it is the tragic consequence of an unjust patriarchal system that permeates the relations of hierarchies of power and status, relations that are the basis of macho violence and that devalue everything that relates to the femininity and recognition of women. We live in an unequal society, a society that feminizes poverty and precariouss the work that women do by distinguishing and segregating it between productive and reproductive work. We live, ladies and gentlemen, in a society that has segregated the labour market and created a wage gap, women earn less and we have less opportunities than men alone and exclusively for our gender. We live in a society in which women are twice as likely to be poor as men, and we must say it is enough; we must say it by calling for a constituent process that reshapes society from its very roots, rethinking it and building it from equality to overcome the machoist structures and the violence that they generate, because in its untouchable Spanish Constitution of 1978 not one woman participated in its drafting - not one -, and we must say it loud and clear. It is no coincidence that this Constitution establishes that men are preferred to women in the most important institutional position in the whole State. Not in vain, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about constituent courts where there were only 5% women. That is why in this twenty-first century we need a constituent process where women have the same capacity to decide as men, where the society we have decides among all and among all equally and obviously with justice. That is why we must build a society in which we are not raped, in which we are not attacked, discriminated against and killed simply because we are women. We must build a society of free and equal women and men in which all, regardless of our gender, share the responsibilities that guarantee access to women in all areas of representation - in all, I repeat - and decision-making. We must build a society with institutions that ensure that women's rights are realized on equal terms in all areas of public and professional life, and that they suffer any discrimination on the basis of gender or dependence on socio-economic grounds; a society in which women feel free and secure to decide whether to be mothers or not, to decide ultimately on their own body. Ladies and gentlemen, that society has a woman's name, that society is called a republic. Women want to be the protagonists of the constituent process of our society and it is obvious that we will be in that we are currently living in Catalonia. Our voice will not be silenced as it was in Spain in 1978, because the best chance to end this patriarchal system that discriminates against us is on October 1. Catalans and Catalans have the opportunity to change everything and to proclaim a feminist republic, a republic clearly of equality. That is why - and I finish this - the Catalan women will vote on 1 October. I finish my speech with the words of a woman who unfortunately is no longer among us, Muriel Casals who said: We are not here to look for a sleep, we are the sleep. Nothing more. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I first came up to this rostrum to talk about macho violence, I began my speech by mentioning a brave woman, a woman who miraculously survived the twelve stab wounds that her ex-husband, who is also the father of her daughters, stabbed her. That woman's name is Kasia, and her name and terrible experience are no longer just family to me. Many Members from different parliamentary groups had the opportunity to hear it very closely. Kasia came as a member of the subcommission, and I personally remember that moment as one of the most exciting that we live during all the work done to achieve this pact. I think you somehow managed, Kasia, that we would all be reflected in everything, that we would see the woman - at that time we were all women - and not the political rival we had in front of us. I assure you that's not easy at all. I wish more times like that were repeated because I'm sure it would bear very good fruit. Your testimony so close, so trembling made practically all of us there excited to get to tears. You taught us your scars, the physical ones; of the psychological ones we were able to see part and maybe that helped us to understand you a little better, to understand you and all the women who suffer from the macho violence. Thank you, Kasia, for that tremendous courage you've shown. Many experts, members of associations, feminist activists, health personnel, lawyers, etc. have passed through the subcommission. Everyone has provided invaluable information, but you have been the direct representation of all those women for whom we are here today. Your voice, which is the voice of all, is the most important. For us, at least that's the case. Of course, we do not want to take away the importance of the rest of the audience. From Citizens we want to thank you for your valuable work and encourage you to continue doing that work that is so important to our society. I would also like to convey our thanks to all the members of the subcommittee for their work. Special mention deserves our president, Pilar Cancela, and our lawyer, of course, Mercedes Senen, who have worked tirelessly, always provided with high doses of patience and left hand. [[Rumors]] What we have here is a state pact against macho violence; a milestone in Spanish parliamentaryism. I think we should value what this means. This is historic, unprecedented and perhaps - I hope not, I hope not - this is the only state pact that can be approved throughout the legislature. It is important that those women who are suffering a hell see gestures of unity and firmness on the part of all the powers of the state.. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u52	Mrs. Reyes, just a moment, please. [[Pause]] You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u53	...that you have the assurance that you will receive the support you need. That is the main message that we must send from here, and that is why the signals we send are vital, never better said. It is clear that if several groups want to reach a pact they will have to give up points that they consider to be important and important, and so it has been. All groups have renounced measures that we considered fundamental because there was no way to reach consensus. There have been very long and heated debates, but we consider, at all times, that it was our duty not to rise from the table. Citizens have tried to act with the utmost responsibility and loyalty; something that on certain occasions - I must say - we have failed on the part of other groups: calls for press conferences outside the subcommission, the use of this pact by the President of the Government to wash his image on the same day that he came to testify as a witness for the Gürtel case, which was a regrettable spectacle. [[Applauds]] For us, women like Kasia are an end. During such work it should always have been that, and not a means that some have tried to use for their own benefit. This pact does not contain all the measures that, in our view, should be; but those that are are the result of the consensus of all groups and will be able to improve the situation of many women who today feel completely sunk. From here, we call on the Government to put in place once and for all the necessary work to ensure that all these measures can be implemented as soon as possible. If I may, I would humbly ask the Group of the European People's Party to reconsider its position and vote in favour. We've all worked very hard. Members of Podemos as Sofia Castañón; of En Marea, Angela Rodríguez - or Pam, as you prefer to be called - you have worked very hard, and I believe that, despite the differences that we may have as a political group, it is fair to say it here in this rostrum. Angela or Pam, you said yourself in the Commission that, for you, doing feminist politics is reaching agreements. Do it, let's do it, what better time than this to put it into practice. Your abstention will devalue the pact. Of course there's a lot left to do. If we do not work on equal terms, we will never eradicate macho violence. We are clear that this violence is the most dramatic consequence of inequality, of the machismo that exists in our society. [[Rumors]] But there is so much to be done in all that matter, on equal terms... In the subcommittee we agreed that those measures would be seen in the Commission, so we consider it unfair and hypocritical that particular votes should be cast on this particular point. Also those presented when they had already been discussed in depth in the subcommission. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u54	Excuse me, Mrs. Reyes, excuse me. Look, I tried to keep quiet before to see if we were aware that we weren't listening to Mrs. Reyes. I understand that anyone who doesn't want to hear you don't listen, but please in silence. If you don't want to listen to her, don't listen to her, but let her focus on what she's saying. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u55	He also said that those who presented themselves when they had already been discussed in depth by the subcommission. And what about those who have no direct connection to macho violence, who mess with shoes allowing language. I won't even mention them in detail out of respect for the victims. Some seek to fully include their electoral agenda by devaluing the pact and deceiving, in a way, citizens. What is added as a private vote will not have binding force for the Government. Work it otherwise, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. Citizens want more than mere statements of intentions written on a paper. Work on it in the Commission; or, rather, feel like negotiating budgets; include measures for equality, as citizens have done with parental permissions, for example. [[Applauds]] I repeat that points have been left out that for our group they are important, such as the extension - Mrs Sorlí said - of the current Law on Gender Violence to all forms of sexist violence with the measures applicable to each of them. It cannot be that a victim of sexual violence is a second-rate victim. It cannot be that the woman who was raped by those savages at the feasts of San Fermín is continually revictimized; that she has to come and go from Madrid to Pamplona for not having to correspond to a specialized court near her home. This is something that could have been solved by now, but it wasn't achieved. It was always a point of disagreement with the Socialist Group all that had to do with amending the 2004 Gender Violence Act. It is a law that has been in force for more than twelve years, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, and they have to adapt to the times. In Citizens we will continue to work for equality and the eradication of all forms of macho violence where it now belongs, in the Commission or by negotiating items of equality in the budgets. We have raised only one particular vote of a purely technical nature. Citizens called, from the outset, for an economic commitment by the Government. We want that money that is going to be spent on the fight against macho violence to be spent in an effective and efficient way. We want absolute transparency with regard to subsidies. It must be done by giving them to one's finger, according to political affinity. We've seen it too many times. All associations that contribute to the elimination of this scourge must opt on an equal footing and must submit reports to assess the efficiency of their actions. In conclusion, we want to send a message of hope to all those women who suffer or who have suffered the violence of any kind. There are measures in this pact that will help you get out of that well. Look for help. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u56	Thank you very much, Mrs. Reyes Rivera. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Rodríguez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u57	Thank you, President. Good morning. Comrades who are up there with us and you have always been, this debate is today for you, this fight has always been for you; it is a pity that this Chamber is not full to listen to it, because I do not believe that today this cannot be heard. [[Addressing the public gallery]] [[The lady]] Much attention must be paid to this, because for women this is probably the most important debate that we have had, at least in this legislature, so first of all, very much thanks to the feminist movements that are accompanying us today. [[Applauds]] This pact is not good for us, even if the measures that are there are good; this pact is not good for us because it has no guarantees: first of all, we do not know when it will be launched. We've had a terrible summer with the case of Juana Rivas and a lot of murders. We have spoken specifically with the Government and with the Government's deputy delegate on gender-based violence, we ask you to take action on the matter and you have done absolutely nothing. Secondly, we also do not know how much money the Government is going to put into reality, and we do not know that for many reasons. Firstly, because there will be no General State Budgets - or at least at the moment we do not know it - and secondly, because we do not know whether they are going to carry out a credit reformulation so that we can have specific funding for macho violence. Minister, are we going or are we not going to have money for macho violence? On the other hand, and in relation to this, we have the famous EUR 1 billion, which if you divide them between five years, gives 200. If we take the 20 million euros earmarked for local entities, we get the ridiculous amount of 2000 euros per municipality in Spain. What's going to be done with those 2000 euros? It is a shame for you to pretend that this will finance the fight against macho violence. [[Applauds]] This pact doesn't work either, because we don't know who it is for. This pact continues to apply to women who suffer violence in the context of the couple, but it does not apply to poor women nor to transgender women, nor does it apply to women with functional diversity. It does not apply to a lot of women who have stayed out, for example, also those who have been raped, which is why this pact is not worth us either and we believe that it needs to be improved. Finally, we do not know exactly what the ideology behind this is, but what we are clear is that we do not share it, and I explain it with a very quick example. Today is Legal and Safe Abortion Day. There have been many debates on this in our country, and I think it is very important for us today to be aware that it is cheap - if not practically free - to guarantee women's right to decide. Why do the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party insist that this does not happen in our country? Why do we continue today to find that eight out of ten women who want to terminate their pregnancy voluntarily cannot do so in public health? What's behind this? Of course, without this being a specifically expensive measure, what is behind is an ideological question, what is behind is a macho question, and this is the problem that we have with you. This is what sets us apart and why we disagree. [[Applauds]] For us this pact should have been a reformulation of the society in which we live, because we think that the existence of inequality and the existence of machismo is what nourishes the existence of machista violence. Until this changes - this is an ideological issue, but of course also economic - macho violence will not disappear. We therefore believe that it is very important that this be done, because the right to decide of individuals and also of peoples is one of the most fundamental things to be guaranteed. Therefore, today we are in deep disagreement with you, for women and for peoples. As for the Socialist Group, Mrs Álvarez, my colleague, please think about certain things. I ask you, please, to approve with us the creation of an independent observatory for feminist movements, because without them in this follow-up committee we will not be able to rebuild and rebuild this country as necessary. They have to be with the people, but also with the women. Without you, we can't, but without them, even less. [[Addressing the public gallery]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u58	Thank you very much. Also by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u59	Thank you, President. Bonos said, good morning. My role today is to try to break headlines that pretend to be simple. This state pact on gender-based violence adopted today is a minimum pact, it is not a feminist pact and it does not solve the problem because we have lost a historic opportunity to overcome the framework of Law 1/2004; we have lost the opportunity to really extend the Istanbul Convention and what we have decided - what has been decided - has been patching up. What it means to opt for patching and what consequences it has, is something that each parliamentary group that has chosen to patch will have to respond to. Machism is not an accident, it is not a scourge, it is not inevitable; machism is precisely what is killing, raping, assaulting and discriminating against women in this country. It is not bias because this is a spinal issue, which is at the core of our society, and as long as we do not understand that this is not just happening to the poor, only to the migrant people, but it is happening because it is not going to the root of the problem we will continue to have a wage gap; we will continue to be invisible in the academic curriculum; we will continue to have fewer casualties per fatherhood, since they will not be caught because what we are going to take care of; there will continue to be more violations; there will continue to be more trafficking; there will continue to be more violence. A true covenant has to understand several things. You have to understand that we are talking about sexist violence and that this implies more than what the current law defines as gender-based violence; that this is work harassment, that this is sexual violence, that this is female genital mutilation, that this is so many things that right now, as partner Angela Rodriguez well explained, are not truly reflected in this pact. And it must be understood that this is corrected by changing the social structure, the economic structure and the cultural structure, and that it must be done on the basis of assumptions that are equal and fair. That this is not a private matter; that violence begins in the public sphere; that violence begins when a Member of this House makes Machistic remarks to a Member of this House; that violence happens on the streets when we have to be brave to come home instead of being citizens of full right and free. [[Applauds]] This pact, in order for it to be a real state pact, must understand that this is not a private issue, that this is not a question of women, that this is not a question of love, of jealousy, of passion. That this is talking about democracy, whether we have a state that guarantees dignity and rights and whether we have the security of all citizens or not. Finally, we need this pact to also understand article 14 of the Constitution, equality before the law. Because if what we have is a law that is not resourced and that the State Security Forces and Bodies are overwhelmed, as is the case with Law 1/2004, and if we have a law like 3/2007 that is a soft right, we are not being equal before the law. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to use a minimum pact to whitewash harmful management in preventing and combating violence against women. I will ask you not to use in your favor a struggle that is on the streets, which is the feminist struggle, which has made us talk about this in this House today; no, it is not the will of your lordships, but the struggle that the feminist movements have been doing for many years. [[Applauds]] Do not use this struggle in your favor as Minister Montoro continues to postpone the 2018 General Budgets. If this state pact has no funding in them, it will mean absolutely nothing. Do not deceive women and do not deceive citizens, that citizenship of Spain with which many here are filled with their mouths, do not deceive them. Let us also tell you something else, let us not be accused of not being constructive, because we are taking this so seriously that we consider this pact insufficient. We have already seen some interventions now in this House to see that a partisan use can also be made of something that is so serious. Don't fool people because while we're here making speeches with florists they're discriminating, raping and killing women in this country. Either we take this seriously or we're not talking about democracy or we're not doing our duty. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u60	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's talk about what to talk about. [[Applauds and rumors]] It is up to all parliamentary groups, after the presentation of the chairman of the subcommission, to come up to this rostrum to defend the particular votes and not to give political rallies... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u61	Quiet. One second, Mrs. Alvarez. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence and I recall that neither the word nor the action can be used in the rostrums. Thank you very much. Go on. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: But before starting the defence of the particular votes that the Socialist Group is presenting, allow me to make some considerations. Ladies and gentlemen, these agreements address the need to engage the State more actively in the fight against any form of violence that women suffer from because they are. Since 2014, the Socialist Group has demanded it with perseverance, because unity in the face of this scourge does not admit desertions for political calculation. [[Applauds]] However, as of today, the Government is in the hands of the Government to take action in the coming months on the implementation of the agreed agreement, so political desidiy, the cutting of funds or the legislation and the relaxed management are no longer in place in this area. It is placed in the hands of the Government, which is the responsibility of the Government: to establish the agreement with other institutions and powers of the State. Meetings with the Autonomous Communities, the General Council of the Judiciary or the Local Government must be a priority, because we have agreed on the time frames for the urgent need to save lives and avoid daily torture for thousands of women. This agreement, ladies and gentlemen, seeks to improve the preventive response of security, justice and redress to all forms of violence contained in the Istanbul Convention, which will entail an intense legislative task that the Government must plan and implement before next spring. [[Applauds]] We want to ask the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States to act responsibly. In this agreement, neither the whole budget nor all the measures that the Socialist Group would have wanted, but even you are aware that everything that is useful to the victims and to the women as a whole is not to be avoided in view of the benefits of these measures. [[Applauds]] We will be demanding with compliance with the agreements and the Government will demand diligence and enable the resources committed. The Group of the European People's Party would like to point out to you that if the budgets are extended we will require the granting of an extraordinary credit not less than a fifth of the commitments for the next five years, because we will not accept any kind of evasion to circumvent the implementation of measures that, I insist, are focused on saving lives. [[Applauds]] We have agreed to combat all forms of gender-based violence, say what others say about this agreement. To do this, as much as we insist, we do not need a single law. I will repeat it again, I have already said it in this rostrum, but I will insist again: We must promote legal standards appropriate to the specificity of each form of violence, because what is useful for the fight or social intervention against violence against women in the context of the couple can be ineffective and useless for the fight against trafficking or sexual assault. [[Applauds]] Therefore, specific rules. Entering into the particular vows, the best example we will give today will not be in the breakup of unity, but in the vote that we jointly present so that mothers who have suffered vicarious violence or cases of violence by interposite person will benefit from the support provided by the law. The Socialist Group is particularly proud of this. They are undoubtedly direct victims of gender-based violence and should therefore be legally considered as direct victims, which implies including them as recipients of the support, benefits and rights contained in Organic Law 1/2004. [[Applauds]] We owe it, ladies and gentlemen, to Ruth Ortiz, Kasia, Margarita Dopico, Gemma, Barbara, Rocío and all those to whom the greatest damage has been inflicted. [[Applauds]] This morning, Mrs Ortiz, who met with Socialist Members Carmen Cuello and Pepa González this summer to ask them to do what we will do here today: vote together to give them that right. That's the deal. [[Applauds]] Another of our particular votes focuses on the need to reduce the high rate of impunity and the high volume of acquittals in crimes of gender-based violence. Reducing impunity goes hand in hand, ladies and gentlemen, with the reform of Article 416 of the Lecrim. The veto on that reform is inexplicable and at this point my group still does not know what motivated it. What we do know is that the latest memory of the prosecutor's office has called for this reform to be postponed. Therefore, if this vote is not incorporated into the agreement, the Socialist Group will promote a proposal to prevent the fundamental proof of office, the testimony of the victim, from being left out of the process. Our particular votes also call on your ladies and gentlemen to consider the United Nations opinion in the case of Angela González Carreño, who calls on us all to recognize the right to effective redress, but also to accountability by State agents when they are responsible for inadequate responses. The pact urges us to legislate fully against trafficking in persons, but we are voting in particular so that the future norm truly incorporates the fight against the sex industry, and that is to penalize any kind of lucrative pimping, because it is necessary to tackle the problems from the root and not only to alleviate their consequences. [[Applauds]] It has been a mistake to veto our proposal in the subcommission to ensure the presence of the Civil Guard specialized in all posts and territorial units. We keep it as a particular vote because at present specialized personnel are only in command, which means that women living in rural areas are not served by qualified personnel for risk assessment. Ladies and gentlemen, we also put forward a vote to create a sub-committee of study to identify whether the imposition of shared custody is leading to a legislative and case law shift in the interests of parents in the interests of minors. Article 31 of the Istanbul Convention provides that legislative measures providing for custody and visits must take into account incidents of violence within the scope of the implementation of the Convention. No right of visitation or custody can jeopardize the rights and security of children. [[Applauds]] This summer, the need to assign jurisdiction to courts of violence in relation to civil procedures for the restitution or return of minors has been highlighted. What had happened to Juana Rivas would not have happened if the criminal jurisdiction for the crimes of abduction of minors had been in the courts of violence. Moreover, Spain, as a country at the forefront of the fight against violence - I am addressing the People's Group bench - should promote the study of how international legislation should be reformed to provide adequate protection for women victims and their children. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to express my gratitude to my fellow Members of the previous legislature who worked to promote this agreement; to Members Lola Galovart, Lidia Guinart and Carmen Cuello and to the chairman of the subcommission, Pilar Cancela, who have brought to fruition the Socialist Group's commitment to this agreement, and to the lawyer Senén and to each of the Members who have worked to achieve it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by reminding you that the memory of Mrs Ortiz's children and the empathy with her pain must also guide our political work, because here we can do things to change the world. Mrs Ortiz, your presence in this House this morning is important because you bear witness to the extreme damage that machismo can cause. We are not going to abstain from that pain. Know that this parliamentary group will always have on its agenda the defence of the equality and freedom of women, that freedom for which you have paid such a high price. To you, who is here on behalf of so many others, I can only tell you to count on us. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, standing up and looking at the guest gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u62	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs. Dueñas Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I get to the bottom of the issue that brings us here today, I want to have an exciting memory for all the victims of macho violence, especially for the 20-year-old girl who was murdered cowardly last Monday at the hands of her ex-partner. I would also like to greet all the associations that accompany us in the rostrum, the minister, the delegate of the Government and, of course, Ruth Ortiz, a courageous and strong woman in her terrible pain, whom I would like to send on behalf of my parliamentary group all our affection. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group with the immense satisfaction of giving voice to the intense work that we have done in the subcommittee for months; a work where there has been dialogue, debate, discussion, discrepancy, emotion, but above all respect. From this respect I would like to thank all the participants, the lawyer Mercedes Senén and all her team, the president, Mrs Cancela, each and every one of my colleagues in the subcommittee and, in particular, my personal and political thanks for their dedication and commitment to my colleagues in the parliamentary group: Marta González, Pilar Cortés, Silvia Valmaña, Javier Maroto and Elena Bastidas. Ladies and gentlemen, we unanimously agreed on 213 measures in this historic state pact, which left out those other issues that did not reach consensus; indeed, some of them sought to introduce with affluence, knowing that they had nothing to do with the object of the pact or with the issue we were dealing with. There are 213 measures that are born out of the compromise majority agreement of all political formations. It is a pact reached since listening, dialogue, negotiation and generosity in proposals and agreements. It is a pact, ladies and gentlemen, which we should be proud of, so I do not understand some of the absolutely partisan interventions that we have been able to hear this morning. It is a pact where the real protagonists are none of us, but women who are victims of gender-based violence and their sons and daughters. These measures seek to respond to what is at stake in the Istanbul Convention, as well as to another series of forms of violence affecting women in the twenty-first century: trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, female genital mutilation or forced marriages. Thirty-seven women killed cowardly in what we have been doing all year, ladies and gentlemen, more than eight hundred women since 2003; it is a figure that causes chills and a lot of sadness, a figure with a woman's name. That is why in this report, in these 213, we include measures to further raise awareness and raise awareness, measures aimed at young people, who unfortunately see how they affect certain behaviours that have a negative impact on their relationship. According to the latest study - by giving them some data - girls come to accept that they are controlled by schedules, that they are told what they can or cannot do or that they are prevented from seeing their family or friends. One more fact: 70% of the thirty-seven murdered this year by their partners or ex-partners were not even thirty-five years old; trembling, ladies and gentlemen. They are measures to raise awareness in the justice system, with important legislative reforms, in the media, in health, in the workplace, in the security sector; measures aimed at rural women, migrant women and women with disabilities, courageous and strong women, surviving women in the added difficulty with which they find themselves. Allow me to briefly stop myself in minors, victims without doubt of this terrible violence, direct victims, so we have them recognized. As far as we are concerned, six minors have been killed by their father or by his mother's partner, minors who are often used as a means of revenge and pressure against the mother. It is another abuse, an added abuse, because the abuser always seeks the same goal: to harm the woman regardless of her children. The abuser attacks, ladies and gentlemen, where it hurts the most. For them, we have made a great deal of progress in this report with these measures contained in the pact. Many of them have already been advanced by the spokesmen who have preceded me. I would also like to welcome the particular vote by the Socialist Group, which we have managed to adopt unanimously, so that mothers whose children have been killed by gender-based violence are recognized as victims. It was justice, ladies and gentlemen, it was justice, and we did it. All this comes to add, it comes to improve everything along the way, because the feminist struggle, Mrs Rodriguez, is not only your heritage, it is not your left heritage, it is the heritage of all the women, of all those who have preceded us, of our mothers, of our grandmothers, of all the women who have worked to get you and me to be in this rostrum today. [[Applauds]] And all this, moreover, accompanied by an important budgetary commitment that have led and assumed the Government of the People's Party and this parliamentary group, a commitment of EUR 1 billion at different levels for the next five years - local entities, autonomous communities and state competences in the field of gender-based violence - within the General Budgets of the State. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. As Prosecutor Flor de Torres said - and I share - recently: beyond acts, ties and victims' accounts, in the fight against gender-based violence there is still a revolution in the interior, the one to which we must go together women and men in harmony and equality; a battle, a revolution from the deep defense of the victims and their families, so that the tearing up of the loss of life is not accompanied by misunderstanding and frustration. In that spirit, ladies and gentlemen, and being aware that there is still a way to go, I ask you to make history again, for those who have expressed their abstention to reconsider, because with your speech you have shown some inconsistency between what was raised in the subcommittee, what was spoken in the Commission and what you have brought to this plenary today. As I say, let us make history, ladies and gentlemen, history in positive, history of hope, history of a great agreement for and for women, who are the real protagonists, and let us demonstrate from unanimity our strong belligerence and activism against any form of violence against women and their children. I assure you that this is our commitment, that of the People's Party Government, that of President Rajoy, that of my parliamentary group and that of all of us in this House; it is ours, ladies and gentlemen. Now I ask you and I invite you, with your vote, when you press the voting button, to demonstrate that it is also that of this whole House. Let's make history, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u64	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u65	Thank you, President. Thank you very much and welcome each and every one of the women who accompany us today in the rostrum, as well as all the associations and our government delegate for gender-based violence. The report of the study paper on the development of strategies against gender-based violence was adopted at the Senate Plenary on 13 September. Today, too, we have a few senators and, therefore, thanks also to the Senate. Today this plenary will adopt the report of the subcommittee on the State Pact on Gender Violence. Both agreements are a firm and secure step towards the achievement of the State Pact on Gender Violence, a firm step where the groups have been essential, where you have demonstrated this effort of dialogue with the will to reach agreements. You have given precedence to the agreement on the legitimate difference that can separate us, always in a shared spirit and with resignations. Therefore, thank you, Chairman of the Sub-Commission, thank you to each and every one of the sub-Commission's spokespersons and spokespersons, thank you to our lawyer, dear Mercedes, thank you to all the services of the House, thank you to each and every one of the representatives who have gone through the Sub-Commission and thank you to the government delegate for the fight against gender-based violence. You have focused on each and every woman, on each and every one of the children and their families who suffer violence in their own flesh and, above all, you have focused on two major axes: the axis of prevention and the axis of response. Today we are transmitting a message of clear and clear hope to each and every woman, not only to those who suffer violence, but to the whole of Spain, a message of hope that the whole of society is committed to the fight against this historic scourge. Today, Ruth, I sincerely want to tell you that the Government of Spain is not going to resign in the fight against gender-based violence. It is our commitment and it is a matter of state and therefore for all the Ruths of Spain we will fight against this scourge. [[Applauds]] Today, after approval, it is up to the Government to move these agreements and work with the autonomous communities, the Federation of Municipalities and trade union, business and women's associations. We are not going to rest for a minute until we finally get this great historic agreement that will help us all to fight that scourge. Today is a beginning and a day of hope for each and every woman, your children and your families, who has suffered violence in your flesh. It is also a clear and clear message to the abuser, who has no place in our society. Therefore, let us all continue to work together for a society free of macho violence. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u66	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u67	We now turn to the last item on the agenda relating to requests for the establishment of committees of inquiry. I would remind you that, as agreed by the parliamentary groups, the request of 78 Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the creation of a committee of inquiry into the causes of the railway accident in Santiago on 24 July 2013 and the request of the Confederal parliamentary groups of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Mixto, for the creation of a committee of inquiry to clarify the causes of the railway accident in Santiago de Compostela on 24 July 2013 and the security system will be discussed together. In defence of the proposals put forward by your groups, Mrs Cancela Rodríguez is speaking by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, allow me to convey on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group an affectionate greeting to the Platform for the Victims of Alvia. Welcome to this plenary meeting. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we all remember with sadness and bitterness, the accident of the Alvia train in Angrois, Santiago de Compostela, occurred on 24 July 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, I live in Santiago de Compostela, I am one more neighbor of that city; a city that suffered and suffered deeply from that tragedy and that from the very first moment went out on the street to show solidarity, to help, to donate blood, to accompany or simply to be, all this in the midst of disconcerting the magnitude of the sinister and the shared pain and at that time not yet fully dimensioned. [[Rumors]] I would like to express our gratitude and gratitude, once again, to the neighbours and neighbours of Angois - the whole of the Galician people are proud of their example - to the emergency services, health care, forces and security bodies... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u69	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u70	...and to the community in general, who in a spontaneous act of shared solidarity lived that indelible night and the after. In any case, there is no pain nor medium to the victims, to the tearing absence of those who, unfortunately, are not and to the painful experience of those who have survived and suffer those absences and the physical and psychological consequences forever. Eighty dead and 152 wounded. There are not enough words to express empathy, solidarity and accompaniment in the actions we can share. [[Rumors]] We initially considered as a political position on the part of this parliamentary group, which I represent here and in the Galician Parliament, that the appropriate and most proactive area to clarify the causes and circumstances of the Alvia accident should be the judicial area, because we understood that it had the greatest capacity to gather evidence, testimony, appearances from the administrations involved and/or responsible or from those who could shed light on the relevant investigation. At the same time, setting up political commissions of inquiry in the parliamentary sphere, in addition to doubling proceedings and having a more limited field of work, would add noise to judicial work. But the state of affairs is not immutable and since then there have been non-minor developments that require new political positions and that cannot be overshadowed. Some of these developments come precisely from the judicial sphere. The Provincial Court of A Coruña issued an order on May 26, 2016, estimating the appeals filed by the victims of Alvia and agreeing to reopen the case, ordering the return to the stage of pre-trial investigation. In the car, the hearing ratifies and requests clarification of two expert reports issued and that the proceedings be carried out... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u71	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. I beg you all to remain silent. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u72	... necessary to determine whether a comprehensive risk assessment of the line was mandatory and technically necessary taking into account the hazard situation in the curve where the fatal accident occurred and whether, moreover, it is true that there was technical consensus among the experts on the need to protect significant speed transitions by means of continuous or punctual control systems. The Court held that it was not exclusively a question of whether the manner in which the risk for the authorisation of the line was assessed or managed was not the appropriate one, but that such a method of valuation could acquire a causal relevance to the accident because there were indications that there was indeed an excessive risk in the curve and that such risk should have been mitigated to acceptable limits. It goes on to say that there are indications that the method used by ADIF as a general guideline and in this particular case has shortcomings which determined that the actual risk was not assessed and that it should have been corrected or that the risk should have been exported to the driver or Renfe. To the greatest extent, the European Railway Agency has stated that the accident has not been independently investigated, as laid down in the Railway Safety Directive, questioning the performance of the Spanish body that carried out the work, which is no other than the Commission for the Investigation of Railway Accidents, attached to Fomento, because it lacks independence criteria and because it obviates the analysis of key elements. Therefore, an investigation following the appropriate independence requirements should be opened. On 24 January 2017, the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament, after receiving a visit from the spokespersons of the victims of the accident, agreed to address the European Commission to ask Spain for a new independent investigation into the Angois accident. On 10 March of this year, the Santiago City Court of Instruction No. 3 issued an order, which agrees to investigate the person who was the director of ADIF security, noting that there are sufficient indications to conclude that the Directorate of Safety in the Movement of ADIF, which is responsible for assessing the risks inherent in the movement, did not carry out this task, generating and tolerating a risk situation. There are indications, ladies and gentlemen, of incomplete and partial poor performance in risk assessment. If, in addition to the European institutions, judicial proceedings do not leave any doubt as to the lack of preventive action in the risk assessment of the Angrois curve, the Socialist Parliamentary Group considers it necessary to launch a parliamentary committee of inquiry sooner than later to clarify the causes of the accident we are dealing with, according to the compromise text that we have arrived at among the various groups that we are presenting. It is pertinent to move at this time to the Platform of Victims of Alvia that we have come so far for their affection and their struggle. The merit is all yours. I finish as I started this intervention, referring to July 24, 2013. 24 and 25 July each year, ladies and gentlemen, are great days for Galicia. The 25 itself is either Gaga da Patria Day or Galicia Day, when we celebrate the pride of being and the identity of belonging and show the world the strength of our galeguity and the generosity of a land that crosses borders, because its people take it where they go, and welcomes so many always but especially those days. Santiago de Compostela is filled with citizens of the world; that is precisely why the victims of Alvia come from so many different places. We share that day of celebration and reaffirmation of everything that identifies us and differentiates us to define ourselves as Galicia, because not in vain all the roads of Santiago converge on one point, but that date will never be the same for us again, for the Galicians and the Galicians, because we will always remember it as a long night of sadness. We're sorry we're late, but we'll walk together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u73	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Fernández Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u74	We bring back this initiative for the creation of the Angois Accident Investigation Commission. After three attempts we have managed to get him back to this House again and we are confident that he will finally come forward today. We also thank the Socialist Parliamentary Group for joining this initiative. Since En Marea we have carried out a genuine exercise of persistence that has been the most similar to a race of obstacles and we have had to suffer vetoes. This same obstacle race is the one that has had to suffer the platform of victims of the accident, since over these four years from the People's Party and also from the Socialist Party they have not been heard and their demands have not been met. The demand was very simple; the only objective was to open an independent and objective commission of inquiry. They have had to come to European level because here they have always encountered a blockade, a blockade promoted by the Ministry of Development and by the political leaders. You have only found vetoes, silences, non-independent investigations, and gentlemen of the People's Party, you still look elsewhere. They look elsewhere because probably their strategy, which is the one they always use - look elsewhere and let time pass, was that the victims were exhausted, that the platform was exhausted, that they ended up leaving and that this was buried. Perhaps you did not calculate - as you sometimes do not calculate how badly you manage your decisions - that what you were going to generate was a force, a treasure and an effort that were promoted by the pain you have suffered and the indifference you have had with them. That engine that had the platform to know the truth of an accident that - as I recall - killed 81 people and caused more than 150 wounded has led them to turn to European authorities. There they have found a recognition denied until then by the Spanish State. They had to go to Brussels to put forward something as basic as being attended to and able to express themselves, and only thus did they obtain the recognition of defencelessness to which the Spanish State was subjecting them. As a result, the European Commission analyses both the accident and the investigation carried out by the CIF, the Commission for the Investigation of Railway Accidents, and concludes that the Spanish State must open a new investigation. What has been the answer from Minister De la Serna? One more time, silence. All the minister has done is throw balloons out saying that the CIAF is an independent agency of the ministry and that he cannot therefore request to reopen the commission. For to be independent the CIFA from the ministry it is curious that a few months later the minister promoted to chair the CIFA one of the people who formed part of the infamous report in which all the blame was transferred to the driver. He says that as a minister he can do nothing, but he puts a gentleman who said he refused to open the committee of inquiry to say what Europe said. This is a scandal. [[Applauds]] However, although it seems that the pieces of the puzzle are being placed to block this commission, I will give the People's Party the benefit of the doubt and I will really think that you want to do what the European Commission marks, that you are very concerned that the CIAF does not open that investigation. You are in luck, because today you have the opportunity to respond to the European forum. Tell Europe here today that they do want to be investigated. If this Government is prepared to comply with the indications of Europe, it must agree that this committee of inquiry should be opened. This is really your cotton test. Do you want to know the causes of the accident and correct the errors that are detected, as Europe demands, or are you going to follow the strategy of silence by voting against this committee? Today you will send a message back to the European Commission as well. So, just so you can think about it and think about it, I'm going to read you a little text. The other time I read them a text of the victims and now I will read directly to them the text of the European Railway Agency, because the People's Party is always more than square with Europe than with the citizens. It says: The composition of the CIAF investigation team did not guarantee the independence of the investigation. The investigation body did not comply with the independence requirements set out in the Railway Safety Directive. Consequently, the obligation to investigate accidents was not properly met. He's telling you that the CIAF wasn't independent and you from the ministry are putting as president a gentleman who was endorsing that report. And the report of the European Railway Agency continues: The report of the CIAF focuses on the direct cause, on human error and does not answer the essential questions of the root causes. Causes were not investigated; there is, for example, a lack of risk assessment. The Community Directive requires a risk assessment and control measures to be implemented when there is a change in operating conditions or new material poses new risks to the infrastructure. In this case, the risk was not assessed or controlled when a change was made to the original project and the ERTMS safety system was not installed at the most dangerous point of the route. Nor was the risk assessed or controlled when the chief of drivers warned in writing of the risk on the curve in December 2011, and when the security system was disconnected because it generated delays, neither was the risk assessed or controlled. The report continues: These unresolved questions relate to bodies that were included in the research team, such as Renfe Operadora, ADIF and Ineco, and to the functioning of the DGF. You put in the CIAF, which should act as an independent guarantee commission, the responsible companies themselves; the same people who disconnected the security system because it generated delays were then in the commission of inquiry. Just see the example of Ineco, participates in the investigation when it was the company that validated the safety of the line. Don't you find this absolutely endogamic? Don't you think that in the end everything ends up in a plot, the plot of the Ministry of Development against the truth? [[Applauds]] And the report continues: In summary, the Agency considers that the accident has not yet been independently investigated, in accordance with the requirements of the Railway Safety Directive; also, given that this accident is very serious, the Agency considers that an investigation should be opened that meets the requirements of independence and addresses, at least, the weaknesses indicated above. I think you can say it louder but no clearer. Gentlemen of the Government, invest again. How can the People's Party say no, with this report in hand, with the objective data on the table? If you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, refuse this commission of inquiry, it is up to you to investigate why you are trying to hide the truth. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u75	Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u76	Truth is part of reparation and this, in turn, of justice. We could not point out to the victims and their representatives that we want to apply justice if we do not know the actual causes that led to that accident that caused 80 deaths and 150 injuries. The intention we have is to add to the possibility of opening a committee of inquiry which will lead to the knowledge of the actual causes that caused the accident and, therefore, to the reparation of the victims in order to cause this effect of justice, and we want to do so in Parliament, so that it will give rise to the knowledge of some responsibility, not in the criminal field, which belongs to the courts, but in the administrative field; to know whether, in their case, there was any simple irregularity or serious irregularity and therefore to deduce the corresponding responsibilities. Only for this reason will we join the proposal made jointly by the Socialist Group and the Group of the European People's Party, not so much to respond to a dynamic of setting up commissions of inquiry but because, in fact, those 81 people who have died and those 150 seriously injured deserve to be repaired. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a terrible accident with 81 dead more than 150 wounded, broken families and, on the other hand, many doubts. Were you in a hurry to finish the works? Were there any changes in the project? Were security systems disconnected? Suspicions and doubts, whether substantiated or not, are not uncommon in cases where accidents as traumatic as this occur. At the moment we know that the European Railway Agency has questioned the independence of the CIAF in the investigation of this accident, and this should already point us a way, because doubts and uncertainty contribute to aggravating the pain of the victims. Nothing is going to compensate those who have lost family members, who have lost loved ones, who are suffering from sequelae, but at least let us make their pain not increase with uncertainty, with the evidence that it has not really been understood what has happened and, therefore, it is possible that measures have not been taken to prevent something like this from happening again. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u79	Quiet, please. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u80	For this purpose, this Commission must be used to listen without prejudice and to try to reach conclusions that will enable us to improve. This is the first principle that guides us. On the other hand, it is reasonable for this Commission to be made in Parliament because, among other things, we have to see whether there have been political errors. Look, in our programme in the Committee on Development, our main point is to depoliticise infrastructure decisions. Did something happen here? Were political decisions interfered with the techniques? Could this contribute to the error? Well, we have to find out. And on this path, if we really want to come to conclusions, we must avoid falling into some other mistakes. For example, we must avoid the mirage of retrospective fallacy. This is a mechanism that runs between all of us, it is a mental shortcut that makes us believe, when something happens, that it was evident from the beginning. If we don't avoid this bias, we can hardly learn and we have to. In life it is impossible to aspire to zero risk, but to minimize the probability of accidents we must understand how they occur. In the past legislature I already spoke in an intervention of the model of a psychologist, James Reason, who developed it to manage the risk of accidents in high-tech and high-impact systems such as Angrois. According to Reason, in addition to the immediate error, in addition to the trigger, what is called latent errors must be taken into account. For that, imagine different levels of security in one organization as if they were sliced in front of each other. One of the slices would be business or political decisions; another would be technical decisions; another would be training; another would be security systems; another would be the way information flows in the organization, and the last would be that of the immediate operators, the pilots, those who handle the levers of a nuclear power plant, the drivers. In an ideal world, slices would be solid and waterproof, but in real life they have holes and, therefore, this model is called the Swiss cheese model, which is very visual. This means that when there is failure at one of the safety levels, if the rest are solid the accident does not occur; but when holes at all levels occur, and those holes are aligned, the accident is guaranteed. Were there enough slices in this case or was it just the driver who took all the risk? Was there then an excessive risk, as the courts now seem to question? Well, we have to decide this. We learn and believe more solid slices and greater security. I want to say one last thing, neither do we want this Commission to be used as a tool for the partisan struggle, because we do not seek lynching; we seek to learn from the mistakes to avoid them in the future. For all this, we support research in the past legislature and we support it again. In short, we want it to be without prejudice, trying to avoid retrospective fallacy and without torches; trying to draw lessons from the past that allow us to improve in the present. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Delgado Arce has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group we remember the people who four years ago, on the eve of Galicia Day, lost their lives in the terrible accident in Angrois, as well as the wounded and the families of all of them, and some people present today in this Chamber who represent them, whom we greet and show our respect and understanding. Today we discuss two requests for the creation of commissions of inquiry to analyze the causes of the railway accident that occurred in Santiago on July 24, 2013; one from the Socialist Group and one from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and the Joint Group. The People's Parliamentary Group is not going to support these requests for the reasons I am going to put forward. On the one hand, because a judicial procedure is under investigation to clear up responsibility for the causes of such an accident. Neither the investigation nor the judgment resulting from the judicial proceedings, we believe, should be conditioned by a parallel investigation in the parliamentary seat on the same facts. [[Rumors]] On the other hand, because from the point of view of improving railway safety and to prevent future accidents... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u83	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u84	..., the commission of inquiry carried out in its day the technical investigation of the causes of the accident, issuing the recommendations that it considered necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative branch that we represent in this House, within its powers, acted after the accident in different areas with control and impulse activities, study activities and legislative activities of regulatory production. On August 8 and 9, 2013, both the Minister of Development and the presidents of ADIF and Renfe were already appearing before this House to report on this accident. The minister herself outlined a set of twenty-two measures to act in different areas of railway safety, and since that date this House has received regular appearances from senior officials to account for how it was working. The ministry promoted a technical-scientific commission, on which the best heads and experts in railway matters of this country sat, and issued a report in 2014 by all weighted. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u85	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u86	And, ladies and gentlemen, in this House we set up a subcommittee for the study and analysis of the Spanish rail system, in which the aim was to make a report on proposals for improving the system and to analyse various aspects, especially the safety aspect. We constituted it on October 30, 2013. At the same meeting, there were 39 very high-quality experts who proposed all the parliamentary groups and who were asked all kinds of questions about the accident. Ladies and gentlemen, that work ended on 30 June 2015. I had the honour of coordinating the report. Do you know how this report ended in that legislature, which you said of the roll of the absolute majority of the People's Party? No less than 34 votes in favour, one vote against and three abstentions. Why did this happen? Because that was a serious, consensus-based report, in which it gave priority not to the partisan but to the constructive spirit, embodied in 84 recommendations to improve the Spanish rail system, especially in the area of safety. Ladies and gentlemen, there was intense legislative and regulatory activity in this House, aware that we had to update our regulation even more. An example of this is the Railway Circulation Regulation of 2015 and of course the Railway Sector Law 38/2015, which established such important things as the new State Railway Safety Agency, a national authority that did not exist and that was launched at that time. In addition, all matters relating to the commission of inquiry into railway accidents and incidents were regulated much more intensively and more in line with the European directive. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to that, there was the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Railway Accidents, which determined the causes of the accident. Well, in the context of all this activity, how are things? They're being actively investigated by the judiciary. In the Court of Instruction number 3 of Santiago de Compostela, pre-trial proceedings are followed, 4069/2013. A procedure is under way to determine whether there is criminal liability for breaches of railway safety regulations. The decisions of the investigating judge are subject, as in any judicial proceedings, to a higher court, and thus, the Provincial Court of A Coruña has on certain occasions confirmed decisions appealed and on other occasions modified them. This is what is happening: a judicial activity without external interference, in which criminal and civil responsibilities are cleared. [[Rumors]] This investigation is led by an independent, irremovable judge, member of the judiciary, who does not meet objective criteria, who does not meet partisan criteria... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u87	Silence, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u88	... which has complete autonomy to investigate without any limitation, with the capacity to gather evidence, to demand contradictions, to urge national and European Union authorities. This is a complex cause. Please be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that by order of 6 June 2017 a decision of 6 June 2016 declaring the case complex has been confirmed, and you have even taken the possible period of investigation until 6 June 2019, and I am talking about the investigation phase, not the oral trial plenary phase. Therefore, we are not faced with an inactive or desirous procedure; we are faced with intense and complex action. [[Rumors]] Very recently, this very court has requested that expert reports be ratified...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u89	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg your silence. The speaker cannot be heard. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u90	Thank you. He was saying that this same court has recently requested, by an order of 26 June 2017, that extended police reports concerning risk assessment be ratified; he has instructed the European Railway Agency to rule on issues related to risk assessment; another person investigated has received a statement on 27 July; it has just been requested by 15 September provide that both ADIF and Renfe and Ineco communicate names of persons who had or might have had some kind of responsibility on those dates. Where is the inactivity then? Why, in this context of intense and full judicial activity, do you believe that it is better to have a parliamentary inquiry here? Really, if that inactivity existed we could still understand it, but in full activity and with these circumstances and all these guarantees we do not see the meaning. Ladies and gentlemen, the institutional collaboration between the Courts and the General Council of the Judiciary has limits and must, in our view, preserve the independence of the Judiciary. I simply want to say that I regret the change in the position of the Socialist Group. It is your right to do so, but we have not been convinced of the arguments that have been moved here today. It was then said in that debate by the socialist spokesman: There would be a pollution between processes that should be isolated and separated. The European Parliament's approach prohibiting parliamentary investigations as long as they are subject to judicial investigation was said and recalled. We think - and I conclude, Madam President - that the judgment ending this judicial process will establish facts, establish cases and it is the time when we must honestly ask ourselves whether a parliamentary inquiry should take place in this House. The People's Group wants to know the truth, it wants justice; it has nothing to hide, it wants to know the truth, but we think that it will not be obtained in a party chamber with positions such as that expressed by Mrs Alexandra who has ended up with a challenge to the People's Group, raising doubts about our Rector proceeding. That is not going to be achieved in a party chamber and we hope and hope that justice will give us the answers to these questions, because we feel with pain what happened in Angrois; all those who are here and especially the Galicians. Nothing more, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u91	Thank you very much. In three minutes we shall begin voting. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u92	Let's start the voting. We begin with the votes taken into consideration of proposals for legislation. Proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to ensure the independence of appointments in the regulatory bodies. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 345 votes in favour, 322 votes in favour, 324 votes against, 5 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u93	Consideration is given to the proposal for a law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u94	We move on to the no-law proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group on the prohibition of advertising campaigns with 'VAT-free' slogans. [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 310 against, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u95	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u96	We now turn to the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the assessment of educational policy and the prospects for the start of this course 2017-2018. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to the fact that we are going to vote on points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 159 against, 134 abstentions, 50.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u97	Approved. Let's move on to point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 186 against, 139 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u98	It was adopted. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 155 against, 134 abstentions, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u99	It was adopted. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 153 against, 134 abstentions, 54.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u100	It was adopted. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 168 against, 167 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u101	It was adopted. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 162 against, 135 abstentions, 46.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u102	It was adopted. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 195 against, 135 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u103	It was adopted. Point 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 163 against, 135 abstentions, 45.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u104	It was adopted. Point 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 186 against, 140 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u105	It was adopted. Point 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 162 against, 171 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u106	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u107	We move on to committee opinions on legislative initiatives. Proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 5/1995 of 22 May of the Jury Court to ensure the participation of persons with disabilities without exclusion. Vote on the Commission opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 343.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u108	It was adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u109	Overall vote on the proposed law for being organic. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 343 in favour, 340 in favour, 2 in favour, 342 in favour, abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u110	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u111	We turn to the opinions of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies. Opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on declarations of the activities of the most excellent Members. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 341 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u112	It was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u113	Vote on the amendment of the entire alternative text to the proposal for a law on the establishment of a minimum income benefit in the field of social security protection, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour 167 against 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u114	It's rejected. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u115	We shall now vote on committee agreements on reports of subcommittees and presentations. We begin with the agreement of the Equality Commission, in connection with the report of the subcommission for a State Pact on Gender Violence. Let us begin with the particular votes of the Joint Parliamentary Group. First of all, the individual vote 56. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 84 against, 252 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u116	It's rejected. Private vote number 57. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 20 against, 171 abstentions, 152.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u117	It's rejected. Private vote number 58. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 110 against, 177 abstentions, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u118	It's rejected. Individual votes of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Let's vote on private vote 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 119 against, 155 abstentions, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u119	It's rejected. Private votes of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Private vote 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 64 against, 264 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u120	It's rejected. Private vote 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 109 against, 233 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u121	It's rejected. Individual votes 11, 14, 16-18, 25, 33, 34, 41 and 42. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 77 against, 179 abstentions, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u122	They're rejected. Private vote 15. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 109 against, 147 abstentions, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u123	It's rejected. Individual votes 19, 20, 28 and 36. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 162 against, 147 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u124	They are approved. Individual votes 21, 24, 26 and 29. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 77 against, 147 abstentions, 119.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u125	They're rejected. Individual votes 35 and 37. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 196 against, 146 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u126	They are approved. Remaining private votes of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 162 against, 180 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u127	They're rejected. We shall now vote on the particular votes of the Socialist Group. We begin with the particular vote 43. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 86 against, 244 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u128	It's rejected. Individual vote 46. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 94 against, 177 abstentions, 72.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u129	It's rejected. Private vote 49. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 94 against, 188 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u130	It's rejected. The Socialist Group's particular votes remain. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 149 against, 167 abstentions, 26.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u131	They're rejected. We now vote for the particular vote of the parliamentary groups Mixto, Vasco PNV, Esquerra Republicana, Citizens, Confederal de Unido Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Socialist and Popular in Congress. Private vote 59. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 341 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u132	It was adopted. [[Applauds]] We shall vote on the subcommission's report. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 278 abstentions, 65.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u133	It was adopted. [[Prolonged applause]] We shall now vote on the resolutions adopted by the Commission on the basis of the particular votes cast by the parliamentary groups. First, the resolution adopted in connection with the individual vote 22. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 162 against, 166 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u134	It's rejected. Resolution adopted in connection with the individual vote 24. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 175 against, 167 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u135	It's approved. Rest of resolutions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 196 against, 134 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u136	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u137	We now proceed to vote on the request made by 78 Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the creation of a commission of inquiry on the causes of the railway accident in Santiago on 24 July 2013 and the request of the Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Mixto for the creation of a commission of inquiry to clarify the causes of the railway accident in Santiago de Compostela on 24 July 2013 and the security system. They are voted together in the terms of the compromise proposal presented by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 343 votes in favour, 208 against, 135.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-28-CD170928.u138	It's approved. [[Applause.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Group of the European Parliament]] The meeting rose. It was 12 and 50 minutes from noon.
