ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u1	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u2	We begin with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Hernando Vera, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, what do you intend to do to regain confidence in the succession of cases of corruption affecting senior leaders of the government party?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. Improve controls to hinder such conduct, support those who have to prosecute the crime - State Security Forces and Bodies, State Tax Administration Agency, judges and prosecutors - and tighten sanctions. That is what we are doing and I believe we must persevere in it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u7	But let's see, Mr. Rajoy, don't you realize that the answer you just gave and the distance with which you talk about this subject the only thing that produces is irritation and shame? In one month Ignacio González has been arrested and imprisoned, for criminal association to be enriched; Esperanza Aguirre has had to resign for the third time, with two vice-presidents imprisoned; Pedro Antonio Sánchez accused of embezzlement; we have known that Rodrigo Rato bleached until he was vice-president; you yourself have been called to testify by the court that judges the Gürtel case as a witness. Mr Rajoy, his Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor and the Secretary of State for Justice have become genuine defence lawyers. With this letter from the prosecutors pointing out to the Secretary of State of Justice, you have to cease him, as you have to cease the Attorney General of the State and the Minister of Justice. You are seen not as fighters against corruption, but as accomplices. Don't you realize the damage that Spain is doing to have a president of the government at the mercy of the courts for cases of corruption? Don't I realize that 'the one who makes the pay' is no longer credible in his mouth, because it only happens when they get caught in court? They knew, Ignacio González knew for years, and what did they do? Nothing at all. As they knew about Barcenas, and they paid him salary and lawyers, Mr. Rajoy. I will refresh your memory - I open quotes -: 'I was wrong, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry, but it was. I was wrong to maintain confidence in someone we now know didn't deserve. I made the mistake of believing a false innocent.' Do you remember her? End of date. It's yours, it's four years ago. Were you wrong with Ignacio González too, Mr. Rajoy? It no longer hangs; it is so much the flood of corrupts that it no longer hangs the theory of the scoundrel that betrays his trust. "Sir Rajoy," Hegel said, "Let the world not perish." Apply it here and now and apply it in Spain, because in a few days you will come to declare in an anti-corruption commission and you will not be able to escape with the 'and you more' nor will you be able to evade your political responsibilities in all this, unless you want to bring Spain to an unprecedented institutional instability for one reason alone: that you are surrounded by the corruption of your party, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u8	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Hernando, I'm not going to get into your game, I'll let you know. I want to say that our obligation is to prevent, prosecute and punish corruption, and to do so we have passed an endless number of laws in this House that increase controls - you know them - we have provided the means for those who have an obligation to prosecute it and we have increased sanctions. That is why today we are much more effective in the fight against corruption, and in fact events that occurred more than ten years ago are discovered today, judged today and punished, and before that did not happen, Mr Hernando. We will have done something to fight corruption. And two final comments. Try to build, Mr. Hernando. I am not going to quote here or with just one of your party's corruption cases, because I would not even get the answer to twenty-five questions. I'm not gonna do like you. You probably have some internal problem that advises you to make an intervention like you did today, but that's not my problem. I do invite you to bring some ideas in addition to criticizing, to defend the rule of law; when it is necessary to defend the presumption of innocence defend it, because if we cannot run the serious risk of ending up in a situation of presumption of guilt that I believe is not suitable for anyone. I also say to you that I support the new measures that I will present in this House, namely the State General Budgets for the coming year, to try to strengthen the prosecution and combat corruption. We will convene more than a hundred places of judges and prosecutors; we will strengthen the staff in the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office; we will approve all the reinforcements requested by the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office; we will establish the Office of the Prosecutor throughout the territory; and we will provide the Attorney General's Office with a support unit within the framework of the General Administration of the State. What you have done today is only for internal consumption, and I stress again that I do not know what the reasons are, although I can see them, but if you want to fight corruption effectively you support the laws and rules that we are doing here and support the prosecution and the judges' actions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u10	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF MANUAL Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE WORK OF ANTI-PRODUCTION TAX? [[File number 180/000235]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u11	Question by Mr Pablo Manuel Iglesias Turrión, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, how does the government value the work of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u14	Well, very positively. I think the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor is a professional with a broad and successful career, as you are sure to know, who acts with total independence and full personality, and I think the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office is working very well, and you should be glad. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u16	This time, Mr President, even your bench has had to make an effort to applaud you. [[Several Members: No!]] I'm going to propose a memory exercise. Calm down. Do you remember the year 2009? There was a hunt in Jaén, which organized a local leader of his party: shotguns, wine boots, Berlinguian atmosphere. And there coincided the then socialist minister, Mr. Mariano Fernández Bermejo and Baltasar Garzón, then the magistrate in charge of the Gürtel summary. I will remind you of what you said at that time - literal quote - about the meeting: An attack on democratic quality. I'm still quoting literally. In a civilized country this would be more than enough reason for Minister Bermejo to resign. What's more, you put up a football simile, I quote literally: It's as if in one game you lose because they point to three unfair penalties, and then you find out that the previous night was dinner with the coach of the other team and the referee. You used some flashing epithets. He spoke of a degrading encounter, of obscene and buchornous act. And he ended by pointing out: liquidated any appearance of division of powers and impartiality of justice. Well, I think you were right, and Mr. Bermejo resigned. Now I'm putting in some more recent literal quotes. 'Let's see if we can put Moix on anti-corruption, he's a serious guy.' 'I think to see if we can put the issue of the anti-corruption prosecutor, you know?' And 'I think it's going to be him. If it comes out, it's lame. This was said by Ignacio González to Mr. Zaplana in a recording transcribed by the Civil Guard. However, Moix is appointed as anti-corruption prosecutor, despite the fact that the state prosecutor was aware that he was the preferred candidate for Ignacio González, who is now in prison, and all Spanish citizens have seen that Mr Moix has devoted himself to preventing his work - calm down, ladies and gentlemen - to anti-corruption prosecutors and to trying to avoid the records that harmed Mr González. [[Protests]] It is extremely serious, when today we also know that the number two of the Interior was the one that apparently gave Mr Gonzalez a slap. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, we are not going to present you with a motion of censure because we have ideological differences, but because you are parasitizing the institutions of the state. I know that you have tied the numbers with the PNV, with Citizens and with the Socialist Party, which is neither expected nor expected... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u17	Thank you, Mr. Churches. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u18	Thank you very much. I thank you for quoting me, Mr. Iglesias, if you persevered in this you could certainly speak with greater knowledge of cause. So I encourage you to repeat your appointments in the future. I already know that that of the Spanish Constitution generates a descriptive enthusiasm, but listen. The Constitution states that it is for the prosecution to promote the action of justice in defence of legality, the rights of citizens and the public interest protected by law. Well, that's what the Anti-Corruption Attorney's Office does. It seems to me that the vast majority of the fiscal career understands this, because the last meeting of the Fiscal Council recognizes the work of the members of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office - it is literal -, encourages their work and demands respect for it; respect that I also demand of you for it. That is therefore my position, the absolute independence of the prosecution to prosecute the crime. Then there is another different position about what should happen to judges and prosecutors. Listen to me carefully, because since you're dating me I'll have to quote you too. The choice of judges and prosecutors should take place by consensus - see - under the logic that the teams will necessarily be composed of capable people, with different political sensitivities, but committed to the Government of Change programme. [[Rumors]] This is what you offered Mr Sánchez in 2016 to reach a coalition. [[Applauds]] Well, Mr. Churches, that's your position. Neither respect nor I cease to respect it, I find it. That's not mine. I believe that judges and prosecutors do not have to be committed either to the government of change or to the government of exchange, nor to the one you could form with the Socialist Party. They only have to be committed to the law and the rule of law. That's democracy. [[Prolonged applause.- A honourable Member: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u19	Thank you. - OF MR CARLES CAMPUZANO AND CANADIANS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT RESPONSES FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO REQUEST CATALAN SOCIETY TO DECIDE CATALUNE'S FUTURE POLICY WITH THE CELEBRATION OF A REFERENDUM? [[File number 180/000245]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u20	Question by Mr Campuzano, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group, to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, what answer do you intend to give to the demand of Catalan society to decide the political future of Catalonia with a referendum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u23	Thank you very much for your question, Mr Campuzano. My position you know very well. We both have two and a half minutes which makes it very difficult to get into details, but I will point out the most important thing. I, like the vast majority of Spaniards, want us to continue living together, as always, because I think it is best for everyone, and so we decided when we adopted our Constitution, where, among other things, we affirmed the unity of the Spanish nation and also national sovereignty. That is, it is the whole of the Spaniards who have to decide what their country wants to be. If you, who also voted on that Constitution, change your mind, you are in your right, but what you have to do is come to this House, put forward the reform of the Constitution, and if the House and then the Spaniards accept your approach we will be in a different situation from the current one. What does not seem very reasonable to me is that you, to satisfy your pretensions, pretend that I skip the law, something I obviously cannot do because I do not believe in it, and in no case would you do so for a cause as profoundly unjust as the one you are raising. No one in the world would make such a decision, and if it did, it would be the same, because the decision falls to this House and then to the Spanish people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u24	Mr. Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Your answer is predictable, it's nothing new, but I want to insist on some arguments. From the outset, the democratic principle on which the political order of Spain is based. I would like to remind you that Rubio Llorente defended at the time that a referendum was possible with this Constitution. I would also like to remind you of the ruling of the Constitutional Court of March 2014, which also pointed in the same direction, and that eight hundred Catalan jurists of enormous prestige have also argued that a referendum on the right to decide in Catalonia is legal. What is needed? Political will and boldness; certainly the same audacity and political will that Adolfo Suárez had forty years ago by agreeing to the return of President Tarradellas and restoring the Republican Generalitat, before the adoption of the Constitution and without a specific legal framework to protect it. There was political will and boldness. But, Mr Rajoy, this demand made by the Democratic Party is not our demand, it is the demand of the majority of the Catalan representatives in this House, of En Comú Pomera, of Esquerra Republicana, of the Democratic Party, of the Senate, of the majority of the Catalan Parliament, of the majority of the municipalities, that is, it is not just a demand of the Catalan political parties, it is a demand of Catalan society. All public opinion polls say this: 80% of Catalans want a referendum and the National Pact for the Referendum, which is the space that unites Catalan civil society, is composed from the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises to the trade unions, from the large entities of Catalan civil society to the multitude of small entities that articulate our civic fabric throughout the country. It's not a party demand, it's a country demand. Catalonia feels like a nation, Catalonia will exercise its right to decide, sooner or later. There are things, Mr. Rajoy, that cannot be avoided. I simply invite you and reiterate that you abandon all hope of preventing the referendum through the competition conflict and the Criminal Code. Sit down and talk. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u26	Mr. President. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Obviously my answer is nothing new. It would be graceful if the President of the Government of a democratic country such as Spain would change his mind every quarter of an hour when the unity of Spain was to speak. If I want to say one thing: to appeal to the democratic principle on your part, trying to disassociate it from the law, is something that is not admissible, because the most important thing in a democracy is that we are all subject to the rule of law and should not forget that, as we should not bet on twisting the law; you know perfectly well that with the Constitution in force national sovereignty lies in the whole Spanish people and therefore that referendum cannot be held. Since the figure of Adolfo Suárez should not be used as an argument, because all of us in this House are fully aware that Adolfo Suárez would never have liquidated national sovereignty and would never have gone against national unity. And even Mr Tarradellas would not have done that; another of the people you mentioned in this House. Mr Campuzano, you are the ones who have organized this approach, you have left very little room, your only will to speak is to say: well, let's talk, but the referendum has to be held yes or yes; we have heard it in this House on numerous occasions... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Elena MARIA BASTIDAS BONO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: WHAT ACTIVITIES IS THE GOVERNMENT TO DEVELOP IT'S IMPULSAR THE II NATIONAL PLAN OF ACTION ON WOMEN, PEACE AND SECURITY? [[File number 180/00248]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u29	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. Question by Mrs Elena María Bastidas Bono, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as you know and as the congressional diaries reflect, the People's Parliamentary Group has always shown a special sensitivity and a clear will to drive all initiatives aimed at addressing peace and security also from a gender perspective. We are also aware from our parliamentary group of the efforts made in this regard, as reflected in the 2015 review by the Security Council, which also highlighted areas where further work is needed to implement Resolution 1325. No one can therefore question Spain's efforts, which included the MPS agenda during its presidency of the Security Council as one of its priorities. I would like to recall that Spain has promoted the unanimous adoption of Resolution 2242, which aims to strengthen the commitment of the United Nations system and integrate the gender perspective into the study and work of its entities. On the one hand, Member States are also urged to implement additional measures to ensure the protection of the human rights of women and girls in conflict, their full presence in the prevention and resolution of armed conflict, and their participation in the construction and consolidation of peace. They also call for a more significant presence in the fight against terrorism and extremism. It is therefore clear that the Government intends to continue this line of work within the Second National Plan of Action on Women, Peace and Security, since Spain has been and must continue to be a protagonist in the progress towards enhancing the gender perspective in conflicts, because as the work that promoted Resolution 1325 concluded, gender inequality is a threat to international peace and security. And I join the words of President Mariano Rajoy when he added that it is also an immorality, an injustice and a scourge for the progress of humanity. I therefore ask you, Minister, what action the Government is taking to develop and promote the Second National Plan of Action on Women, Peace and Security. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u31	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u32	Thank you, President. Your Honor, gender equality, the empowerment of women, are a fundamental part of the Spanish Government's action in the field of human rights. Where the woman is postponed the future is bleak. Aware as we are of this, a fundamental moment in which to enhance this agenda of gender equality and the protection of women is in crisis and conflict situations. As you have said, during the Spanish presidency of the Security Council a high-level debate was organised chaired by the President of the Government to update Resolution 1325. As a result of that debate, where the President of the Government clearly stated, among other things, that the agenda is so important because in conflict situations it is sometimes more dangerous to be a woman than a soldier, it was the unanimous adoption - you yourself have recalled - of Resolution 2242 which updates, which renews that agenda. But as we know the adoption of those resolutions has to be followed by their practical implementation, and as we like to set an example, we have decided to update the Plan of Action on Women, Peace and Security. We have created an interministerial group that, in contact with civil society - because we believe that it is important for civil society to be part of this action - is at an advanced stage in the elaboration of this II action plan. But we also do not want to work alone, we want to work with the other countries that are involved in that goal, and we have recently organized in Alicante a first meeting of contact points for the agenda's action plans on women, peace and security in other countries, as a demonstration of our determination to move forward together on such a laudable goal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u33	Thank you very much. - of Mr Raphael Simancas Simancas, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which forms the Minister of Justice. HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT EXPLAIN HIS VINCULES WITH DIFFERENT IMPLICATIONS IN LEGAL OPERATION? [[File number 180/00240]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u34	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Rafael Simancas Simancas, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Catalá, my group is asking you this morning about the role of your Government in the institutional treatment of cases of corruption affecting your party, the People's Party. You constantly and rightly allude to the necessary confidence in the institutions that safeguard our rule of law, but I do not know whether you are sufficiently aware of the extent to which your own conduct is seriously undermining such credit in the institutions. I could talk about your unfortunate statements, some revealing telephone message, but I will focus on your decisions, Mr Catalá. Why Moix, Minister? Why did you bet at this delicate moment on a chief anti-corruption prosecutor like Moix? He wasn't a specialist in this matter, he isn't. In fact, of the candidates submitted, he was the only one who had not passed through the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. And if the reasons for betting on him were not of capacity or experience, what other aspects of your curriculum convinced you, Minister? Did you convince them of your daring to report the judge who imprisoned Blesa? Did you convince them to refuse to act against Mrs. Aguirre for her episode of escapism and disobedience to authority in the Great Way? Or was it because you didn't notice the espionages of the PP in Madrid? Or because he filed the complaints of irregularities on the Isabel II Canal for up to three times without due diligence? Was it because he was assiduous to FAES courses? Or Ignacio Gonzalez's recommendation to that serious, good guy? Or for being in favour of punishing the media that publish news about corruption summaries? Mr. Catalá, you know that Mr. Moix was chief prosecutor in Madrid, sure you also know when to be appointed: in July 2003, just a few weeks after that anti-democratic coup we knew as 'tamayazo'. Moix was not an anti-corruption specialist, Mr Catalá, but I'm afraid you knew very well why his appointment was appropriate. Moix was the prosecutor in charge of burying any evidence in that coup in 2003, he was the prosecutor who for twelve years did not want to see, did not want to denounce, did not want to pursue the looting and kidnapping of countless corrupt people in the Community of Madrid. Do you want to ensure the prestige of the rule of law? Let justice be done, let the guilty be imprisoned, let the whole truth be finally known from 2003 to here, let them return what was stolen, and above all return dignity to the institutions by leaving the institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u36	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u37	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Simancas, you know very well what the procedure is for appointing prosecutors in the first category. They are proposed by the Attorney-General of the State, after the report and vote of the Fiscal Council, and the Government simply transfers that appointment to a royal decree and to the State Official Gazette. That is the intervention of the Government and that is the model of the functioning of the institutions in our country. You are committed to manifesting and talking about interference. On the one hand, we are told that we do not have to have any interference in the prosecution - and I very much agree with that approach - and then we are asked to explain how the prosecution works. The State Attorney General is going to appear for the second time this afternoon in this House, as he did a month ago. I myself will appear for the third time in the Committee on Justice. There is no precedent for this level of transparency and information, as surely there is no precedent for you to tell me that Mr Moix, a 30-year-old prosecutor, has no experience in anti-corruption. What is anti-corruption more than the fight against crime, Your Honor? It must be that the prosecutors who appointed the socialist government, on the proposal of Mr Candido Conde-Pumpido, were all superspecialists, were all experts and those who knew all these matters best. It seems to me that questioning the knowledge of a person with thirty years of career is at least quite uncertain on the basis that they may have their considerations and quite unfair. Surely, what makes clear about Mr Moix's previous work, you have known him very well. As a Member of the Madrid Assembly, you have heard of your actions. I believe that if anything Mr. Moix is doing at the head of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, it is his duty to promote justice. We have already heard some questions this morning about the links, about who recommended them. It seems a lie that we have given the word that someone who has no influence is the author of the proposal for an appointment. Please note that this person, who was supposed to have a lot of interest in him being an anti-corruption prosecutor, is in jail because prosecutors have requested that he be sentenced to imprisonment against that gentleman. Therefore, the facts absolutely deny the insidia that you are trying to pose. Let us trust the institutions, let us trust the good functioning of the prosecution, and it will be a great service to democracy, Your Honor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF MR ISABEL RODRIGUEZ GARCIA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO DO BEFORE THE MANIOBRACES THAT HAVE HAPPENED IN THE FISCAL MINISTRY TO OBSTACULATE DETERMINED JUDICIAL CAUSES AGAINST CORRUPTION? [[File number 180/00241]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u38	Question by Mrs Isabel Rodríguez García, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u39	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group trusts the institutions, which it does not trust, Mr Catalá. [[Applauds]] There is something more serious than the fact that your party is plagued by corruption, and it is that you, from the Ministry of Justice, are appointing those prosecutors who are protecting the corruption of the People's Party. Mr Catalá, my question today is out of date, and the only answer this House and this country deserves is whether you are going to resign as Minister of Justice. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u40	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u41	Thank you, President. It's not that it's out of date, it's that you change it on the march. In any case, it is absolutely nothing, I am in a position to answer your honourable friend's question. Although I improvise the question on the way, the answer is that I am appointed by the President of the Government, I try daily to fulfil my obligations and I have the confidence of who I have to have it. I will therefore continue to work, as I have been doing for more than thirty years, in the service of the general interest and of the general public. [[Applauds]] In any case, Your Honor, it seems to me very good that the Socialist Party trusts the institutions - that is what we are doing - and, in addition to saying this, they could put it in their statements, in their questions, in their questions. Then we will have the debate on an inquiry that you have raised as a matter of urgency. For the same day that we have a scheduled appearance by the State Attorney General and myself this afternoon in the Committee on Justice, you have an urgent inquiry. But if we were to come, if the date and time were already set! I do not know what the urgency is, but it is very good: in any case, transparency and trust in the institutions. Your Honor, what you said later about prosecutors protecting corruption seems to me to be quite incompatible with your declaration of confidence in the institutions. Accusing professionals, public servants, as prosecutors, of protecting corruption is not exactly a statement of confidence in the institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u42	Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u43	Mr. Catalá, don't make any effort. We have all heard it, we have heard it from Mr Gonzalez's mouth, from Mr Zaplana's mouth. You name those prosecutors who believe you protect them and protect them from corruption. We trust the other prosecutors, those who have put Mr González in jail, despite Moix and Mr Maza. That's our trust in prosecutors. It's not the first time. Do you remember Murcia? You have a background on this case. These prosecutors, whom you name, are the ones who make other prosecutors who want to work and fight corruption in our country run into obstacles and, as they claim, have to go to the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office to protect themselves. I will tell you why we presented this urgent inquiry this morning in this House, and it is because we believe that this has to be the last chapter. The Lezo case has to be the last chapter in the interference of the Ministry of Justice and the prosecution in cases of corruption. We have put this question before you so that you can tell us everything we want to know and decide this afternoon if you resign today in this House, and if not, if you do not, next week the Socialist Group, as a result of that question, will bring to this House your reproach that we hope will be supported by the majority of the parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]] That's why we brought that inquiry here. We expect your resignation or your reprobation.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u44	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u45	Thank you, President. Your Honor, it is truly surprising that you consider that the prosecution works properly and that you support it as an institution, despite the Attorney General of the State and the Chief Anti-Corruption Prosecutor. I don't quite understand that inconsistency between what the chiefs decide and what the prosecution does. If Mr Gonzalez is in prison, it is because it has been ordered by a judge at the request of the prosecution, who is insisting that these measures should be taken into consideration. If the prosecution decided not to deal with a particular case against which he was president of the Murcia Region it is because prosecutors of the Supreme Court, the senior category of the race, said that there was no criminal case in that circumstance; it has not been told by the Minister of Justice nor, for God's sake, Mr. Zaplana. Are Mr. Zaplana and Mr. González the ones who say who's being named and what the prosecution does? You really believe that, do you? Or is it good for you to start a debate? [[Several Members: Yes!]] If you believe it, you know little about the functioning of the institutions in any case. Well, the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office works effectively every day, is increasingly acting and is producing results in the fight against crime in Spain. [[Rumors]] Let us therefore continue to support the institutions, but indeed, ladies and gentlemen, not only by word of mouth. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF JOSÉ MANUEL VILLEGAS PEREZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT THERE IS NO POLITICAL INJURY INJURY? [[File number 180/000238]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u46	Question by Mr José Manuel Villegas Pérez, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u47	Thank you, President. Minister, the Spanish people's perception of the independence of justice and the autonomy of the prosecutor's office is on the ground and reforms are needed to change that state of mind. I wanted to ask you today about the reform that you were going to push, especially in the field of prosecution, to have a truly autonomous prosecution, as stated in paragraph 143 of our agreement, but, in view of the scandals in which you appear as an unfortunate protagonist and which have to do with leaks to party comrades, with complaints of interference by prosecutors themselves, with your messages to imputed comrades, with your appearance as a protagonist in certain recordings, let me extend the question to you: Minister, do you really feel qualified to lead as minister those reforms that Spain needs? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u48	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u49	Thank you, President. I believe that there is a great deal and a great deal of need for the reforms that we need to carry out and when I appeared in this House in December at the start of the parliamentary term, I tried to expose, above all, what you are talking about, the strengthening of our criminal procedure in order to ensure the proper functioning of justice and also to equip the prosecution with greater autonomy, more material means, more personal means and better laws so that they can do their job better. I firmly believe that this is the way to work and, modestly, in the time that I am the Minister of Justice of this Government, I will try to do everything in my power to work with the parliamentary groups, with the rest of the Government, with the Ministry of Finance and the rest of the departments to obtain those material means, personal means and legislative reforms that strengthen justice in Spain, that strengthen the proper functioning of justice and that, consequently, improve citizens' perception of independence from justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Villegas.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u51	Thank you, Minister. Of course, reforms are urgent, but the explanations that you will have to give in this House on many serious issues are also urgent. You will have to explain whether or not you leaked sensitive information to your party partner Pedro Antonio Sánchez Yes, you directly, Minister. [[Rumors]] He will have to explain whether the prosecution has been pressured to act by favoring the procedural criteria that benefited his party partners investigated for corruption. You will have to explain whether you have leaked information to Mr González; you will also tell us that no, that this is more a subject of Mr Zoido, but in any case we will hear his explanations and also, I suppose, that those that the Minister of the Interior has to give at the time. You're going to have to explain your texts in support of Ignacio González. You will have to explain why an accused - also Mr Gonzalez, the one to whom you were sending SMS support - had a plan to get rid of justice and relied on you as the main collaborator and key piece in that plan. You're going to have to give a lot of explanations, Minister. And if your explanations are not consistent, they are not convincing, Minister, rather than an ally for those reforms, you will have become an obstacle to reaching the necessary agreements and consensuses that Spain needs to reform justice and to regain in public opinion that idea of independence and honesty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u52	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u53	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Villegas, I give all the explanations that you ask me - today, three parliamentary questions, one question and one appearance - as it cannot be otherwise, with absolute availability and with absolute transparency. But, man, I can explain, first, what I know and, second, what I do. Let's see if you're going to ask me for explanations of all the crimes that are committed in Spain every day, because from the list you've made... I mean, I leaked information. You'll have proof, I imagine! You will have proof that I have leaked information, I have paralyzed the prosecution's action, I have informed Mr. Gonzalez... for God's sake! But, well, you'll know what you attribute to me, and I'm sure you have data. For the moment, in a democracy, guilt is proven, not innocence. Therefore, if you accuse me of all that, I imagine you will have data on which to base your accusations. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes affirmative gestures.]] Today we talk a lot about the functioning of the prosecution and we talk a lot about the functioning of the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, let us work to restore citizens' confidence in the institutions. The Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office has been exemplary in recent years; it has doubled its actions; we have given it personal and material support from the Government; we have created regulatory frameworks so that what is being done can be done, recorded legally, so that the prosecution can be carried out. All this has been done by this Government in previous legislatures. Therefore, our commitment to the rule of law, to the law and also to the presumption of innocence, Your Honor, is absolute, and I am sure that it will also be yours. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL PAPER BUSTINDUY AMADOR, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM WE CAN COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT CONCERN DEFENCE RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES OF THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION? [[File number 180/000236]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u54	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pablo Bustinduy Amador, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u55	Good morning, Minister. As it has been published, on March 23, you travelled to Washington to interview at the Pentagon with the Secretary of Defense of the Trump Administration, Mr. James Mattis. I wanted to ask you what you talked about with Mr. Mattis; what commitments you made, if any; and how the government focuses on defence relations with the United States of the Trump Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u56	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the relations of the Government of Spain with the United States of America of the Trump Administration, as your honor calls them, that is, with the Government of the United States of America, are those that belong to a Government that is the Government of the country that is the main partner and strategic ally of defense of Spain. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Bustinduy.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u59	Minister, in just over three months Mr Trump has taken steps against the separation of powers, against Muslim, migrant and Latin collectives, against women's fundamental rights and is about to take away any health coverage from millions of people. At the international level, it has already given him time to launch military attacks without the authorization of the UN Security Council, to unleash an unprecedented arms race and to put the world at risk in an episode of nuclear tension on the Korean peninsula. Faced with these facts, you, your Government, have taken a number of worrying measures and positions. The next day, one day after his visit to Washington, the government appointed his predecessor in office, Don Pedro Morenés, former Minister of Defense, as ambassador to the United States, who is not known prior diplomatic experience, but his deep ties with the arms industry. One wonders what interests Mr Morenes will defend in the United States. Just two weeks later, his Government endorsed an illegal military attack launched from the Rota military base without even knowing if the Government had knowledge that it was going to occur. Last week, you brought to this House a draft state budget that increases defence spending by 32%; that is, three times as much as Mr Trump himself is going to do. Madam Minister, this country does not forget that you have already dragged us into a disastrous war drift against 90% of this country's citizens, when Mr Aznar thought it was a good idea to put your feet on Mr Bush's table, another enlightened emperor, and fifteen years later the consequences are in sight: international law shattered; Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria and Yemen devastated; hundreds of thousands dead; millions of refugees fleeing for their lives, while the European Union and its Government look elsewhere. Minister, this government's policy towards the United States is worrying and unacceptable. You live up to Spain's international commitments; you defend peace and human rights in our external action. This country should not be a vassal of anyone and less of a dangerous government like Mr Trump's. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u60	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u61	Thank you, Madam President. As you can imagine, the Spanish Government's foreign and defence policy cannot be guided by prejudices, which is quite clear to you, and I respect them, nor do I respect nightly concepts of faculty coffee, and I say this to you with all respect. The relations between Spain and the United States of America have been very rich for many years and are multidisciplinary, for example in the field of education, which I know is well known and well known. But beyond that I have to tell you that in the field of defence our relations with our main partner and ally in the field of defence have a fundamental objective that is to defend the security of the Spanish families, Your Honor. From that point of view, the Government is fulfilling its obligations in the bilateral relationship with the United States and also in our international commitments. For example, from an absolutely basic point of view in international missions, where we participate jointly in defending, as I say, the role of our Armed Forces, in defending the security of Spanish families. And from other points of view, which I also know your parliamentary group may be interested in, for example, industrial policy - I am not going to refer to the things you have said and to the accusations you have made absolutely unfounded - it is true that the technology acquisitions, for example, of the F18 have caused a very important defence industry in this country or a naval industry supported also by the United States of America, which I know is also of interest to your parliamentary group or aid to our Navy. Therefore, relations of partner allies based on mutual trust with this administration and I hope that also with the one that comes as with the previous ones because it is essential for the defense of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO DEPUTY, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DOES SHE STILL KEEP THAT THE TAX AMNISTIA HAS BEEN BENEFICIENT FOR THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION? [[File number 180/00243]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u62	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Pedro Saura García, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do you still maintain that the tax amnesty has been beneficial in combating corruption? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u64	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Saura, what I have to regret is that you and the Socialist Parliamentary Group are still asking the same question after five years. You are trapped in a loop; it is a matter of you and there you are. Normally, after a debate on the State's General Budgets, those issues that were pending were subject to parliamentary control, but no group has addressed the Government or the Minister of Finance to ask him about the fringes of that debate. The debate has become clear and we are now on such a new subject as what you call fiscal amnesty, which simply did not exist in Spain. There was an extraordinary tax declaration, which was placed in model 750, and which has led to very numerous inspections by the Tax Agency in contrast to the 720 declaration of goods and rights abroad and, in particular, the figures are that the work has allowed from this tax regularization to open 3545 inspection proceedings among those who submitted the special tax declaration, with an educated debt of more than 246 million euros, of which more than 189 million euros has been settled until 10 January 2017. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Saura, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u67	Thank you, Madam President. To me, Mr Montoro, what you said the other day and what you said today seems to me to be a real nonsense because the tax amnesty has been used to whiten corruption, to whiten corrupt people and to whiten criminals. And it's not true, it's the justice that has discovered that the corrupt took over the tax amnesty. Five years ago the Socialist Group told you, Spanish society and this House that the tax amnesty was a tailor-made suit for white-necked criminals, for corrupt and also for many leaders of the People's Party. That is what we said five years ago and five years later we have found that there is no case of corruption in our country that has not received the tax amnesty, many of them linked to the People's Party: Case Lezo, Púnica, Defex, César, Rat, Pujol, Emperor, Noos, Caja B of the People's Party, Gürtel and many more than you know, but that the rest of the Spaniards do not know because they do not want us to know who has received the tax amnesty. By the way, we are not going to stop until we know who has done it, because there will be no real democratic regeneration in our country until we know who all those who have accepted the tax amnesty are. Mr Montoro, fiscal amnesty is a sad and black passage of Spanish democracy, of the Spanish Public Treasury. It is a very black passage from the Spanish Public Treasury and in the end it is another example, Mr Montoro, of the perfect storm of the PP with corruption: looting of the institutions and using them to defend many corrupt people who have been leaders of the People's Party. It is a black passage from Spanish democracy and its management. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u68	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u69	Thank you, Madam President. That's not true. One gets up and releases the four thunders that dictate his inspiration, which is also the same as that of five years ago. Simply, it's not true. When a person is surprised by the justice system, by the Tax Agency, there is an extraordinary regularization that was not accommodated in the ETD. That's what's happening and from there all sums up and everything gets confused. Your Honor, the truth is that Spain is growing and creating jobs, which means that we are emerging from a crisis, something the Socialist Party does not want to recognize. That's where your mistake is, from now on and five years ago. I invite you to cooperate in the economic recovery and job creation of our country. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u70	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO GOMEZ-REINO VARELA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: HOW LONG DO YOU THINK TO KEEP THE GOVERNMENT THE MEASURES BLOCKING THE LOCAL AUTONOMY? [[File number 180/000246]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u71	Question also addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Antonio Gómez-Reino Varela, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. How long does the Government intend to maintain the measures that block local autonomy?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u73	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Local autonomy is recognized in our Constitution and identified in our laws, in the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration, and is being perfectly applied by those who have governmental responsibilities and by those who have democratic representation - the councillors - in those entities. I would like to celebrate publicly once again the budgetary consolidation they are carrying out, their commitment to the budgetary balance of all public administrations in Spain and how positive it is that the management of thousands of local corporations in our country is helping economic growth and job creation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Gómez-Kingdom, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u76	Thank you very much, President. Privatization, prohibition of recruitment and cuts. This is your model for our municipalities, a model that is not casual and that, even if they want us to believe otherwise, is not the only one. It is a clearly ideological model: the public is destroyed by a contract for friendships and corruption. Against the common good of our municipalities, you with your rules have been one of the main promoters of the business. Understand me well, the business for a few to parasitize the public and take the money of the citizenry. Our municipalities collect and you don't let them spend. Our municipalities need staff and you don't let them hire. We want to rescue people and municipalities and you want to drown them. I will give you three figures which are not mine, but from this report by the Court of Auditors. Private water management is, on average, 9 euros more expensive per inhabitant than the public. The private management of cleaning is, on average, 12 euros more expensive per inhabitant than the public. The management of urban solid waste is, on average, 11 euros more expensive than the public. Where's all that money going, Mr. Montoro? Fortunately, citizenship and we have it very clear: privatization means that we pay more, we have worse services and we open the door to corruption that you know so well. Fortunately, in front of that model there are many municipalities that are planting before you. Town halls and a new municipalism that have eradicated corruption. Town halls and a new municipalism that have regained the dignity of the public. Town halls and a new municipalism that show every day that they are more effective and have planted it face to face with their business. Give the portfolio back to the municipalities and the citizens. Señor Montoro, A Coruña, Ferrol, Santiago, Madrid, Barcelona, Zaragoza, Valencia, Cádiz and so many towns and cities in this country are not sold. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u77	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u78	Thank you, Your Honor. Town halls that have served to place yours. That has been forgotten and a few have placed. [[Laughter and applause]] Do you want to tell me what legal rule this Government has promoted includes the requirement of privatization? [[Mr. GómezReino Varela utters words that are not perceived]] I do not know any rules, either in the Organic Law on Budget Stability or in the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration. You want to tell me that rule? You have the advantage that you get up and always say the same thing. But do you know what's going on? That in Spain in 2012 the suppliers had to be paid, because if the suppliers are not paid the garbage is not collected, the lighting cannot be financed and people with disabilities who are residing in social residences cannot be cared for. [[Mr. GómezReino Varela makes negative gestures.- Rumors]] Yes, Your Honor, yes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u79	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u80	That is what this Government has done by promoting funding mechanisms and has also set very effective standards against abuse and corruption. There is practically no single case of corruption at the present time, regardless of who governs local entities. They're all cases of the past. Let's face it. As I have already said, you have come to this House on time, to criticize what no longer exists. It's a problem to update. Mr. GómezReino, give him a little imagination and update his speech. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u81	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON FELIPUS JESUS SICILIA ALFEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES HE THINK THE SECRETARY OF STATE OF SECURITY HAS JUSTIFIEDLY JUSTIFIED HIS MEETING WITH A PERSON INVESTIGATED BY JUSTICE? [[File number 180/00242]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u82	Questions now addressed to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Felipe Jesús Sicilia Ensign of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Mr. Sicily.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as far as we know from the Lezo case summary, Ignacio González, former President of the Community of Madrid, and his brother received the clap that they were being investigated and their communications were being punctured. After this information, the González brothers met and were concerned about who was the Director General of the Police. After this fraternal meeting, two days later, the Secretary of State for Security received in his office the brother of Ignacio González. It is a meeting that the judge who investigates this corrupt plot, which once again puts the People's Party back in the spotlight, values as serious what it might involve, Mr Zoido. The explanations given by your number two are, of course, insufficient and unbelievable, and the letter that yesterday afternoon the Secretary of State for Security referred to the prosecution is an example of interference and something unexpected and very serious, Minister. The explanations have to be given by you. The explanations about the role of your Secretary of State in all this case must be given by you and not by the prosecution. That is why, Mr Zoido, I ask you: did you know before this meeting took place that Mr González and the Secretary of State were to meet? Did they tell you how it happened? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u84	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Sicilia, I am absolutely convinced that the Secretary of State for Security, from the very beginning, even at his own request, has given all the appropriate explanations of how, when and what it was about at that meeting. The explanations have been sufficient, exhaustive and reasonable. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Sicily.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u87	Minister, you have not answered the questions I asked you: Have you previously heard of this meeting? Did Mr. Nieto then account for how it happened? Answer me, you have enough time to do it later. Mr. Zoido, you had not only the role of running the Ministry of the Interior, but also of regaining the good name and prestige of the ministry, a prestige that you lost due to the actions of your predecessor. I remind you of cases such as the meeting you had with Mr. Rat or that other conversation with the head of the Anti-Fraud Office in Catalonia, the one where you suggested that you could fine-tune some business. Issues such as this have made your ministry discredited, and you are today collaborating in this contempt with cases such as the DGT director's floor or with this meeting that the Secretary of State for Security has held. I insist, don't put any more obstacles on judges or prosecutors to investigate and let the State Security Forces and Bodies do their job, Mr. Zoido. What you must do right now to recover that good name is to cease the Secretary of State for Security, because, if not, the suspicion will not be on Mr Nieto, that suspicion will be on his back. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u88	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u89	Mr Sicilia, whether you are not interested or not convinced of the explanations given by the Secretary of State does not mean that they have not been sufficient. Moreover, I now understand why you are asking me a number of questions that the Secretary of State has sufficiently clarified, because, being a member of the Congressional Committee on the Interior, when you appeared at your own request, you did not attend; you could have asked him to correct you. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] It has already made clear to the Secretary of State that it had been a merely protocol meeting month and a half before the arrest took place and that he did not know that he was being investigated and, Mr.Sicilia, he also explained that, since nothing was known to him and it was a merely protocol meeting of something more than five minutes, he did not tell me anything that he was going to meet or what the result was because - I insist - it was merely protocol. [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u90	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u91	I tell you one thing, Mr Sicilia, there are only two options here: either you know that Mr Nieto has acted well and is taking this politically to get him out of it, or you know that he has acted badly. If you have acted badly, it is very worrying, because you are part of a party that has formed Government in this country, but it is more worrying because you are part of the National Police Corps and you should know that article 126 of the Constitution says... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u92	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u93	... says, Your Honor, if you don't interrupt me, that the judicial police depend exclusively on judges and courts and the prosecutor's office to investigate what the crimes are and to look for the offender in accordance with Spanish criminal law, and that's what they're doing. You have intended that the Secretary of State should do something he should not do. The Secretary of State, like this Government, respects the division of powers, and the prosecutors themselves made it clear yesterday in their statement that they are in no way accusing the Secretary of State of any offence and that there is no open line of investigation against him. Yesterday's writing does not change anything at all, Mr Sicilia. There's no news, neither the Secretary of State nor I have anything at all... [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA SORAYA RODRIGUEZ RAMOS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE LAST REVELATIONS ON IRREGULAR ACTIVITIES OF RODRIGUE RATO MINITORE WAS THE VICEPRISE OF THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00244]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u94	He also asked the Minister of the Interior, Mrs María Soraya Rodríguez Ramos, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u95	For I do not address it to the Minister of the Interior, I address it to Mr Montoro: Evaluation of the last we know of Mr Rat's actions when he was Vice-President. I'm looking forward to knowing why it's your turn to answer me. In the meantime, I can only think of two things, Minister: either that you will announce to the House that, after the last revelations, you have met in your office with Mr. Rato, as your predecessor did or as your Secretary of State does with Mr. González's brothers, or that you will announce that today a judicial police operation against Mr. Rato begins. If so, I tell you not to do it; Mr. Catalá may be listening to us in the hallway and then he knows what he's doing: pick up the phone. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u96	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Before giving the floor to the Minister, I would ask all of you to remain silent, please. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u97	Mrs Rodríguez, I regret that it is I who have to answer you, but I do so to tell you that the system works, that the one who makes it pays and that depending on when the instructions are concluded, the investigations conclude in one way or another, within the independence of powers; that division of powers that is allowing the Spanish one who makes it pay during the mandate of the People's Party, which is very important. [[Laughter]] I'll tell you one more thing. This division of powers is the guarantee and therefore the UCO has to answer exclusively to judges, courts and the prosecutor's office and in no case has it to answer to the Executive or the Legislative Power. That is the great advantage and that is what he will continue to defend, because he believes in the division of powers, the government of the People's Party. The one who makes it pays, but of course we will not interfere with the independence of the judicial police. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u98	Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u99	I know the division of powers and that is why I do not ask the UCO and I ask its fellow banker, Mr Montoro, who was Minister of Finance when Mr Rat was Vice-President of the Aznar Government. The other day, Mr Montoro, you said, with your characteristic squandering, that talking about increased public spending, education, pensions, health care was like going out of business. Well, with his own simile, I will tell him what it is to play with the public money of all the Spaniards: that, according to the latest revelations, a vice president of the Economy would be enriched, allegedly illegally, with public enterprises that he was privatizing. Companies such as Telefónica, Endesa, Repsol, Paradores are cited, of which Mr Rat received EUR 82.96 million, EUR 28.9 million while he was Minister and Vice-President of the Aznar Government. With that money, Mr. Montoro, and while you were in the office next door, Mr. Rat escaped to the Public Treasury through opaque societies in tax havens. You were supposed to be having a drink because you didn't find out. But what's more, when you came back with Mr. Rajoy the game continued and made an indecent tax amnesty to favor alleged Aznar government criminals. There you are, Mr Montoro, not us, in that indecent tax amnesty. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u100	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u101	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodriguez, where do you want to go? Would you suggest that the previous government, at the time when Mr. Rat was in office, knew about the irregularities and did not want to do anything? Or does it turn out, Mrs Rodríguez, that you also want to insinuate that later governments, such as Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's, also wanted to cover it up? You're implying that, too? [[Mr. Floriano Corrales: Very well.-Applause]] You say you defend the division of powers and you're here today proving you don't defend it. You might be wanting to slip that people weren't chosen well. I'll ask you, Mrs. Rodriguez, with all due respect... [[Mrs Rodríguez Ramos: I have said it clearly.]] I am telling you with all due respect, Mrs Rodríguez, if you can assure me that all members of the Socialist Party in this country knew the irregularities of Mr Chaves and Mr Griñán when they were able to make decisions under your government. [[Mrs Rodríguez Ramos utters words that are not perceived]] I don't think so, they didn't all know it. Do you know what the Tax Agency does? The Tax Agency in 2016 has obtained 14,883 million, as a result of the fight against fraud, whoever falls, Mrs Rodríguez. [[Mrs Rodríguez Ramos utters words that are not perceived]] That's the difference, which we still don't know what you were doing, when you don't believe in the division of powers and wanted and had, perhaps, information from the UCO and the police... - OF THE DEPUTY WOMAN LUCIA MARTÍN GONZÁLEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES WE CAN-IN COMMUNITY CAN-EN-MARE, WHO FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT MEASURES DO YOU HAVE FORCED TO TAKE THE GOVERNMENT BACK TO THE GREAT PROBLEM THAT AFFECTS THE LIVING IN RELATION? [[Applauds]] [[File number 180/00231]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u102	Questions now to the Minister for Development. First of all, question by Mrs Lucía Martín González, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. [[Rumors]] Go ahead, Your Honor. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u103	Thank you. What measures does your Government intend to take on the serious problem of rented housing?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u104	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u105	Thank you, President; thank you, Mrs Martín. With regard to the strengthening of the rental market, we will establish a set of policies that are in addition to those already adopted in the last legislature, especially with the establishment of a new balanced regulatory framework for the lessor and lessee and, more specifically, those envisaged in the draft of the Royal Decree of the State Plan 2018-2021 which we have just presented and which aim to increase the supply of the rental market and the establishment of a comprehensive package of aid for access to it, especially for families with fewer resources, for the elderly and for young people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Martin.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u107	You tell us about the next state housing plan and I'm going to be very direct. Since they arrived at the government they have cut that plan by almost 40%. Your ministry spends ten, twenty, thirty times less on housing than countries like France, Holland or the United Kingdom, so the first thing you have to explain is whether that next state plan is going to have a budget that equates us with those countries or whether you are going to continue to announce measures that, with your history of cuts, basically serve to sell smoke. Since they arrived at the Government their policy regarding rent has been a constant trampling of rights. They have reformed the LAU so that contracts are only three years old, so that people facing evictions have virtually no rights and so that the rent price goes up without limits. We have 1% of the public rental park; with that percentage, people's needs cannot be met and private market prices cannot be dragged down. We need 2 million homes to reach 10%. Tell me how that is achieved by cutting 40% of the housing budget. All its policies have encouraged rent to be a first-class speculative asset today. Investment funds are being provided, they have free bar to buy, rehabilitate and put the apartments for rent while neighbors and neighbors - popular classes but also middle classes - have to leave their homes because they can't afford them. In cities the prices of rent go up without limit, people are suffering what are called silent evictions because after three years they cannot cope with the increase in the price of the new contract. In the meantime, you, Minister, go on television last Sunday and happily let go that you have no constitutional capacity to regulate the rental price. Well, I'll tell you something: you have it, and so much you have it. Moreover, his obligation, as Minister of Development, is to protect housing as the basic good it is, and to do that above any other speculative logic. To achieve this, you have to reform the LAU to extend contracts and restore guarantees and rights, you have to change the legislation so that cities can limit the price of abusive rents, as they are already doing Paris and Berlin, and you have to create a public rental park. All this is said by my parliamentary group - and certainly others - and also by municipalities such as Madrid and Barcelona, but most importantly, the PAH tells you, it is said by neighbouring organizations; in short, it is said by a citizen who is sick of suffering from his bubble policies, before with mortgages and now with rents. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u108	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u109	Thank you, Madam President; thank you, Mrs Martín. It is not true what you say, because, despite the Ministry of Development's adjustment needs to meet the public deficit targets, precisely one of the items that has not undergone any cuts has been the amount allocated to the rental and strengthening of rehabilitation policies. Nor is it true that the competences - as you say - reside in the ministry; of course we have competences to regulate housing, but the competences in housing policy reside - that is, in the autonomous communities. Don't make an example of what happens in Paris or Berlin because you know perfectly well that rents in these cities are almost twice as much as a rent in the city of Madrid, then don't make them exactly as an example of what rental policies have to be. [[Rumors]] What we are going to do, precisely, is to encourage the increase in the supply of rental policies, and we are going to do so with measures as important as the aid programme to be able to rehabilitate homes up to EUR 350 per square metre useful for housing up to EUR 31 500, which is going to increase the supply; we are going to increase direct aid by up to 40%, raising the maximum allowable rent limit up to EUR 900; we are going to create a programme of aid for people with fewer resources, financing up to 100% of the rental aid, and for people who are in a situation of eviction, with a special increase for aid to young people up to 50% and an additional 30% up to those EUR 900, and we are going to implement many other measures that are available on the website. If you have any comments, you have until 30 May to be able to take off the draft of the royal decree and make the appropriate contributions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE JORDI SAVER'S DEVELOPED I duch, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, which expresses to the Lord Minister of Foment: what is the work plan of the Government to present THE PROPOSAL TO AMEND THE WORKERS' REGIME FOR THE PROVISION OF THE PORT SERVICE FOR THE MANIPULATION OF GOODS TO THE COMPANIES, THE SYMBOLS AND, IN YOUR CASE, THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS BEFORE THEIR APPROVAL? [[File number 180/00237]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u110	Question by Mr Jordi Salvador i Duch, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u111	Thank you, President. Minister, once the royal decree-law presented to us on the greenhouse, which, with the excuse of the application of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union dynamite the labour rights of the greenhouses, what action has been taken to resolve this conflict? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u112	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, Mr Salvador. What we are going to do in our work plan is to adopt in the Council of Ministers a royal decree-law that we will bring to validate this House, as well as to draw up a royal decree, as a regulatory development of the royal decree-law, collecting mediation that is the result of the Social Dialogue Bureau. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u114	Mr. Salvador i Duch.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u115	Sincerely, we remain very concerned, especially if we add that so far this Parliament has not received any information and that we find it lacking dialogue, Minister; that is why we have asked this question in this monitoring session, because it has been more than two months and we are very much afraid that it will again present us, as you have just said, a real decree-law or, worse still, a regulation to jump into this Parliament and be able to go beyond European rules, trying to impose its labour model based on flexibility, competitiveness and liberalisation at the expense of those who have always, in this case, precariousing the greenhouse sector. That is our fear and that of the workers, and that is why we will always oppose. So know that either you choose the path of real dialogue, the path of respect for workers' rights, or you will be playing with fire and you can be responsible for a destabilization scenario that no one cares about, let alone the workers. We are not going to accept that with the excuse of competitiveness - or is it that the greenhouse sector is not competitive, Minister? - you skip a basic pillar of democracy, such as collective bargaining. I remind you that time is running out, more than two months have passed, and that the last summer strike lasted eighteen months. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u116	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Salvador. We have been making a great effort of dialogue with the sector and in more than two years we have held multiple meetings - I have had the opportunity to participate in many of them - as we have also done at the tripartite table that has given rise to the mediation that we are going to collect in that royal decree. We are also maintaining dialogue with the political groups. You speak of fears, but fears are already there, and today there are already consequences. Today we pay EUR 27 000 more than we were paying yesterday and we already carry around EUR 25 million of that first sentence, which will be increased by EUR 134 000 per day if the second sentence takes place, in addition to the serious damage that is being done to the image of the country, because, as you will understand, our obligation - not that of the Government but that of the whole of this House - is to comply with the sentences that we have as a country. I would therefore ask you not to transfer that responsibility from which you have spoken to the members of the Government, because the responsibility to comply with that sentence and to do so as soon as possible is everyone's, and of course we are going to persevere, to exercise that responsibility and to adopt soon a new royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u118	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED BENIT BARANDIARIAN GIFT, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: IS THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERING THAT A CORRECTION OF THE TERRITORIAL OFFICIAL NAMES TO INTERNET SEARCHERS FROM THE NATIONAL GEOGRAPHICAL INSTITUTION? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00232]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u119	Question by Mr Íñigo Barandiaran Benito, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, does the Government consider that there is a proper overthrow of the official territorial denominations to Internet searchers from the National Geographic Institute?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u121	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u122	Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. The National Geographical Institute is responsible for the elaboration of the so-called national geographical denominator, which contains the referenced designations to be used in the official cartography. It is a dynamic register that includes the autonomous geographical denominations that are also made in collaboration, as you know, with the autonomous communities. It is in this context that the Government, through the National Geographic Institute, has maintained and maintains a careful effort to respect the official denominations and, of course, the co-official languages existing in Spain. In addition, work is being done to ensure that these official names are in the cartographic data sources used by the Spanish and also used internationally, as is the case with the websites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the reason for our question and concern is not so much to question the data of the National Geographic Institute, which we do not doubt are correct and respectful of official designations, but their exploitation, their management, the way in which it is provided to third parties, the providers of geographical information, that information and therefore compliance with those linguistic guarantees which are also required by the regulations themselves. As an example, Minister: Muskiz is Muskiz and is not Somorrostro, in the same way that Hondarribia is Hondarribia and is not Fundrarrabia. The same goes for Sopela, which is not Sopelana, or Txemein which is not Gemein; or like many other municipalities: Valmaseda, Ciérvena, Guecho, Mundaca, which appear with Castilian scripts because their original scripts are not respected. [[Balmaseda]] [[Ziervena]] [[Getx]] [[Mundaka]] And that happens in geographic information providers as important and fundamental as Google Maps, Repsol Guide and so many others. Or, for example, the territory of which I am a Member, which is Gipuzkoa and is not Guipuzcoa as it appears in Castilian script. And from what we are told, the same problem exists in other territories where there is an official language other than Spanish. The possibility of access to geographical information generated by public authorities is something common and providing it to the network is also normal, but all, absolutely all have a base, an initial layer from which you build that information that you then draw up, and that base, Minister, always comes from official and public sources. The availability and sharing of this information is implemented in Spain through Law 14/2010 on Infrastructures and Geographic Information Services and the possibility of its public dissemination is provided for in order 2807/2015, which also establishes the possibility that certain issues contained in this information may be subject to license. That's what this is about, Minister. Despite the fact that the first additional provision of that law provides for the guarantee of the use of official languages in the use of geographical information infrastructures but also in their management and despite the fact that such legislation makes it possible to establish conditions in the granting of licences for their use, it is not produced by them...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u125	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Barandiaran, I agree substantially with what you say. It is true that Google Maps does not use official toponymy, but it is also true that the government cannot impose a geographical name policy on a private company that applies its own in all parts of the world. This does not mean that, in view of their concern, we do not meet with them and try to reach some agreement or at least encourage them to use official cartography, as we have been doing, I insist, together with the Autonomous Communities and especially with the Vice-Teacher of Linguistic Policy of the Basque Government. We have already received corrections to the latest updates for the province of Álava. We are waiting for corrections to be received in two other provinces. It is also true that of the thirteen IGN viewers there is one, which is the Iberpix, which accessed a database whose toponyms were not updated. We are changing this; the representatives of the Basque Country have made a reference to us. We are taking advantage of this change of technology precisely to solve the problem, which will be resolved in just a few weeks. Therefore, I would like to reiterate that absolute respect for official designations and recall the work we will do from now on with other types of search engines, such as Google and Google Maps, to try to improve those references according to official mapping and toponymy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - of Mrs Raquel Alonso Hernandez, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which expresses to the Lord Minister of Foment: what are the guidelines for the next life plan? [[File number 180/000247]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u127	Question by Mrs Raquel Alonso Hernández of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the People's Party, through the Housing Plan 2013-2016, has been committed to the needs of Spanish society, a society that still noted the effects of the crisis and in which thousands of Spaniards had enlarged the lists of unemployment by previous socialist management. This plan has been particularly sensitive to those most in need and has focused its efforts on promoting rental and urban rehabilitation, regeneration and renewal aid. I would like to give some data, some figures that I think speak for themselves about the benefits of this plan. Since 1 January 2013, EUR 2427 million has been allocated to state housing aid and more than 570 000 people have been benefited. Breaking down these figures, we see that EUR 1118 million has been earmarked for rental aid, reaching more than 239 000 households; EUR 775 million for interest subsidies on public housing and EUR 418 million for urban rehabilitation, regeneration and renovation, which have improved more than 80 000 houses. I believe that the figures speak for themselves and the will of the People's Party to ensure decent housing for all Spaniards is undeniable, but we know that much remains to be done and access to housing remains a delicate issue, even more so for young people, young people like me, who are old enough to become independent and start looking for our way. Similarly, many of our people live in the rural world and it is essential to enhance rural housing in order to avoid the depopulation of our peoples, which are a clear sign of the identity of our country. That is why, because the good data of the 2013-2016 Plan are a good starting point but not by far are the final point of the policies of the People's Party on housing, which I ask. What are the guidelines for the next housing plan? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u129	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Alonso, I take advantage of your interesting question to talk about the State Housing Plan 2018-2021, not in the area of rental aid - of which we have spoken in a previous question - but in another of the fundamental pillars that we intend to support with this new state plan, which is that of building rehabilitation and urban regeneration. One of the issues that we are going to try to resolve or improve with this plan is the flexibility of the processing that the autonomous communities have to do, which - I stress again - are the competent ones in this area, to give them all the tools necessary to remove bureaucratic obstacles; among other things, that they can pay the aid on a regular basis that they consider or that they not only have to grant this aid under competitive conditions but also under open procedure. Rehabilitation, as I said, will have a very important specific weight in this plan. For the first time we will be able to grant aid to single-family homes, whether urban or rural; we will also be able to do so for individual housing within a building, which so far could not be done; a specific programme of aid for energy efficiency issues will be set up; we will increase the range of housing that can receive rehabilitation aid, because we will make it possible for those older than 1996, which will increase the housing stock by about 5 million; we will substantially increase aid for improving accessibility up to 75% for people with reduced mobility or for people over 65 years of age; in short, we will establish new ways to encourage rehabilitation, among other things, to focus housing on the rental market. In addition, the only case in which aid is to be granted in order to gain access to housing is that of young people, to whom aid of up to EUR 10 800 is to be granted, with a limit of 20% of the purchase price. There are also some interesting complementary measures, such as the extension of the deadlines, which have been requested by the municipalities, from the areas of urban regeneration and renewal until December 2019, among many other measures envisaged by the new plan. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u131	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JORDI ROCA MAS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: What contribution will the Government make to the celebration of the Mediterranean Games 2018, in Tarragona? [[File number 180/00249]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u132	Question now to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Question by Mr Jordi Roca Mas, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister of the Government of the Nation, the 2018 Mediterranean Games of Tarragona are the clear paradigm of something that has happened for too long in Catalonia: a repeated lie a thousand times can deceive many people - a lot of good faith - can separate people from each other, but it remains a lie. It has been said thousands of times that the Spanish Government mistreats Catalonia or, in this case, the Tarragona Mediterranean Games. It has come to say that the PP of Tarragona city worked for another city in the Mediterranean Games and against Tarragona. But what is the reality? The reality is that after eight years of transition to socialism, Mariano Rajoy's government found itself on the edge of the precipice and priorities had to be set. Some chose to continue with lies, with hispanophobia, with breaking, with separating, with breaking the law; we, modestly, for saving the welfare society and its people, for creating employment and, in the case of Tarragona, for infrastructure or for the Mediterranean Games. That is why when I was a Member of Parliament - or also a Member of Congress - I moved motions in favour of the Mediterranean Games, which, by the way, were unanimously adopted. That is why the Government of Spain has done everything we have asked of it since Tarragona, despite the year lost by the gallop of a populist illuminated by the cry of 'no is no'. [[Rumors]] Minister, thank you for your patience with this humble and insistent Member, but especially for your affection for Tarragona: yours, that of Minister Montoro, that of the Vice-President of the Government and that of the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, and all your team. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Minister, what is the contribution of the Government of Spain so that Tarragona can - we can - successfully organize the Mediterranean Games 2018? Thank you very much. [[Applause.-Applause from several Members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u134	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u135	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. You've been so good, Mr. Roca, that Podemos' friends also applauded you. The importance of the Mediterranean Games you have highlighted: it is very great. It is an ambitious sports project with 28 sports, 33 sports disciplines, 237 tests - including the Paralympics -, 32 competition venues in 16 municipalities and 4500 participating athletes, so it is a major event. It is true what you said, the decision was made before this government arrived and, from there, when I arrived at the ministry I was told that there were commitments made to carry out and finance these games, but verbal commitments, as you know, do not exist; commitments are budgetary. And in difficult times it was not easy - on the contrary, it was very complicated - to make contributions, but the Government made them. He did it already in 2016 and, aware of the importance of it, has done it also in the budgets of 2017 - another good reason to approve them - and will do it in those of 2018. Therefore, the contribution that the Higher Sports Council will make in these three years is 13,026,000 euros, to which must be added 2 million from the State Lotteries and State Betting Society. It is a bet that the Vice President of the Government corroborated when we went to Tarragona a few days ago together with the Minister of Finance, where the collaboration with the City of Tarragona was real and very positive. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Spanish Olympic Committee, which has achieved something that seems important to me to achieve success - which is what we all want -: delaying the games a year. That has been a good decision that will allow us all to steer our efforts in the same direction. The Higher Sports Council will also do so, and within the organizing committee will be the Director General of Sports as a demonstration of the commitment of the Government of Spain to show all the participants of these important Mediterranean Games the reality of our country; a country with a great past - the imperial Tarraco is a good example of this - but with a splendid future that we make the men and women of Spain who, when these occasions arrive - as we demonstrate in Barcelona 92 - we know how to act united for the good of all. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF FRANCE IGEA ARISQUETA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT MEASURES DO YOU THINK TO THE GOVERNMENT TO PROTECT THE HEALTH OF PATIENTS FROM REAL DAMAGE PRODUCED BY SCIENTIFIC PEUDOTERAPIES? [[File number 180/00234]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u136	Question is now addressed to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by Mr Francisco Igea Arisqueta, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u137	Minister, what measures is the Government planning to protect the health of patients from harm caused by dangerous pseudotherapy without evidence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u138	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u139	Thank you, President; thank you, Mr Igea. The right to the protection of the health of citizens is a constitutional mandate developed in all our health, state and autonomous regulations and therefore its fulfilment is an obligation and a priority for the Ministry of Health. Citizens can rely on our National Health System because the common portfolio of services offers, through proven safety, effectiveness and above all scientific evidence techniques, technologies and procedures, as provided for in article 20 of the Cohesion and Quality Act of the National Health System. In addition, health-care centres, services and facilities comply with the requirements of the Royal Decree of 2003, which establishes the general basis for the authorizations of health-care centres, services and facilities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Igea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u141	Madam Minister, that's very good, but the reality today is that at this hour, as you and I speak, on Spanish Television, on the 1st, in the public, there is a gentleman selling the kindnesses of bleach for the treatment of bladder cancer or HIV or Ebola. The truth is that at this hour, as you and I speak, on a page of a friend of this gentleman's - a page you can access - some plants are sold as an alternative to chemotherapy, unless you have leukemia, for which you have some infusions. The truth now in this country is that two years ago, very close to where you live, a child died in Olot from a diphtheria because someone convinced his father of how bad it was to vaccinate him. The truth is that, at this time, in this country, doctors in the public system of the Tauli Park report loss of opportunity for patients with breast cancer because they have fallen into the hands of scammers. The truth is, at this hour, the WTO has given you sixty pages of dangerous pseudotherapy that are still open. And the truth is, at this hour, there's a father in the courts defending the honor of his son who died of leukemia when a scammer wasted his time. This is the truth, and the saddest truth is that many of Parliament's health advocates have profiled themselves in these situations. Why? Because some have contacts with people as peculiar as these, because there are other spokespersons who measure everything in votes. We will not profile ourselves, we believe in the freedom of people to seek well-being and health in their own way, but we, apart from liberals, are not complex; we will defend the health of our patients, we will defend health costs the vote that costs and that is why we are here and we ask you this question: will we be able to look into the eyes of the next father, the next Mario who dies of a leukemia? Will we have done enough then? That's the question. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u142	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u143	Thank you, President. Mr. Igea, we're worried and we're busy. Health protection constantly demands supervision through the development of initiatives that, of course, will improve and update the regulation of the advertising of health centres and services with the aim of eliminating possible frauds and frauds without scientific evidence. And I can assure you that's how we're doing it. We are currently working on the development of the state register of health professionals, which will promote the control of graduates and the detection of possible frauds in titling. We continue to promote measures to improve the training of citizens as patients, such as the network of health schools for citizenship that stimulate their critical sense in centres and treatments that do not respond to established guarantees. And, of course, this ongoing monitoring of the protection of the right to health requires full coordination with the autonomous communities, professionals, patients and society as a whole. With autonomy, from the respect of competence we work through the sum of efforts that consolidate the quality and safety of patients. With healthcare professionals and college organizations we work in coordination to promote the updating of knowledge and decision-making in their daily practice on the basis of scientific evidence, and of course also with patients and with society as a whole, we work continuously to inform and alert possible frauds, as well as to actively involve them in the reporting of irregular health practices they detect. We're busy and you're not worried, Mr. Igea; you're convinced. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u144	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u145	We shall now proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality on the privatization of public services and health and its effects on the sustainability of the health system and on the health of the population. For your defence, Mrs Sibina Camps has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u146	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we come here to celebrate an anniversary. [[The Lord]] A few weeks ago, twenty years after the entry into force of Law 15/1997, a very short law, a law that fits on one page, but that has turned our public health into a nest of opacity and corruption; a one-page law that has allowed some, over the past twenty years, to become rich thanks to the public health money we pay among all. And how could a one-page law have achieved this? For right now I will read it: 'This law states that the management of health and social health centres and services can be carried out directly or indirectly through any entity of nature or public ownership admitted to law'. So far it could be said that the thing is going well. But, we continue and find the real cause that motivated this law. It says the statement of reasons: '... the law includes the possibility of establishing agreements, agreements or contracts with persons or public or private entities...' - or private. And he says one more thing: 'This rule must be an important instrument of flexibility... with a view to improving the effectiveness of the National Health System, whose consolidation and modernization is a priority objective' of this law. This is how twenty years ago the People's Party, with the support of the Socialist Party, Convergence i Unió and the PNV, opened the door to the looting of public health in Spain. Minister, flexibility, modernization... guess who benefited from this law? Since 1997 this law was passed, we have seen how they have gone into business with our health. Here are a couple of examples; today, the health of a million Valencians is in the hands of an American company called Centene, based in Missouri. Another example, today, in the Community of Madrid, there are five hospitals that provide health services to about one million people: the Jiménez Díaz Foundation, the Elena Infanta Hospital in Valdemoro, the Rey Juan Carlos de Móstoles Hospital, the Villalba and Torrejón Hospital, or, for example, the Sagrat Cor Hospital in Barcelona, among many others, which have been managed by venture capital funds, with head offices in tax havens; venture capital funds: capital for them and risk for people, and which now belong to Fresenius Helios, a German private health giant, which we will talk about later. How modern, Minister! How flexible! By the way, speaking of flexibility, work, in this case. Mr. Aznar, after passing the law that made all this possible, in 2013 he filed for the American firm DLA Piper, who advised the British fund CVC Partners. In Valencia we saw how from the hand of Mr. Eduardo Zaplana, yes, the same one that is being investigated by the operation Lezo, Ribera Salud was done with the control of the health of the Valencians and the Valencians. We saw how names like Adelas de La Caixa and Dragados were launched into the business. It did not take much time for the announced disaster to manifest itself. Ribera Salud became a bottomless black hole, but there was Mr. Zaplana to put money. And I do not say that, Minister, our parliamentary group does not say that, says the Valencian Community Union of Accounts. Minister, I read you a news release just before yesterday Zaplana gave Ribera Salud 26 million in 2003 for loss of profits, after suspending a contract giving losses. [[Showing a press article]] I wonder: Is this the flexibility they promised in 1997? Is this the modernity they approved twenty years ago? [[Mrs Villalobos Talero goes to the seat of the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, Montserrat Montserrat, and speaks with her]] Minister, are you listening to me? This is the plot of healing, this is an absolute failure. [[Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, Montserrat Montserrat: Yes]] Twenty years ago many have already said so, but luckily we are many more now. This is the plot of healing. [[Applauds]] Recently, Madam Minister, I read the words of a senior director of a private health company, Fresenius, who recently acquired Quiron Salud and said the following: It probably surprises them, but the revenues on the public side are more profitable than those on the private side. That phrase is the recognition that private health is not interested in public health, and what really interests it is to continue to empty public health of funds because it is more profitable for it. It doesn't make it any simpler, it doesn't make it more selfless, it doesn't make it more stimulating, it doesn't make it safer, of course. No, it's more profitable for him. In our State, according to the satellite accounts published annually by its ministry, private health expenditure accounts for 30% of total health expenditure and 70% of public health expenditure and of this 70% of public expenditure, 1 out of 3 euros end up in private companies, 1 out of 3 euros. Mr Echaniz, his party partner, said in the debate on Law 15/1997 that you were not going to privatize the health system and alluded to the United States of America as the model of what would never happen here. Their coincidences with North America do not need to be pointed out, there they leave without health coverage from one day to another to millions of people, who need it most, and here you did the same. But with regard to Mr Echaniz's words, it seems clear that private health in our country enjoys good health and does so because public health maintains it. Private management is not more effective, it is not safer and it is not more efficient, and point. At equal expense, public health makes people live longer and consume less resources. This is published in a lot of bibliography. You often defend private management by referring to work flexibility, ease of recruitment or management capacity. What you call job flexibility, we call it workers' rights. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, when you talk about facilitating recruitment, what workers suffer and suffer is speeding up dismissal and, Madam Minister, when you say that private enterprise has greater managerial capacity, what you mean is that we are incapable of managing the public. His defences of private health management are merely recognition of his manifest inability to manage the public. Public management can be more controllable, more transparent, more efficient because it does not need to achieve profit margins, more participatory with professionals and people and more capable of generating economies of scale. And I say it can because it really can, as long as those who manage it want it to be so and not to damage it until the citizens and professionals end up believing that they would be better managed by Ribera Salud or Capio than by their own regional health service. Public management must prevent the management of public health from giving vulture funds, construction companies trapped in the real estate bubble and profit-making companies, which must be accountable to shareholders rather than to patients and citizens. It is not that we have phobia to the private, it is not that; we believe that the management of the common has to be done from the public and the common, from the public properly financed and not decapitalized to exhaustion, as his Government has done in recent years. We do not want our gaze to remain in the year 1997 or in the previous and subsequent laws, which allowed the current situation; we prefer to urge the rest of the groups that at the time were positioned in favor of Law 15/1997 to change their position and bet on direct public management, and to shield a health system that today serves as a host to the parasitization by the private company. I'll end up asking you a few questions, which I'll also leave you written here so you don't forget and I can answer them when I get up. The first is: What measures is the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality taking to monitor that in its coordination work, under Law 15/1997, it is not causing harm to the health of the population or to the sustainability of the system? Another question: Do you not think that leaving public health management in private hands is a manifest gesture of inability to manage the public and, therefore, it would be more honest to step aside and let those decisions be managed by someone who really believes in the values of public health? Another question. What opinion do Fresenius's CEO's sentences give you about how profitable contracts with public health are for your company? Another: Will your ministry institutionally support actions such as that of the Valencian Government to reverse private concessions of public health? And finally: Do you think it's the same way that a concert is given to a profit-making company as to a non-profit? And finally, Aneurin Bevan, British Minister of Health, said that the National Health System will last as long as there are people with faith to fight for it. My group and millions more people have faith in our public health system and we will continue to fight to defend it from those who have turned people's health into a business for a few. We look forward to your answer, Minister. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs Sibina. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sibina, the public health commitment of the present Government and of course of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality is clear, decisive and firm. Sanity is one of the public goods most valued by the Spaniards and it is because it is the heritage of all. Firstly, it is enshrined in articles 43 and 49 of our Constitution, which recognize the right of all citizens to health protection. Secondly, health is a public good of all that is institutionalized within our administrative structures through the autonomous communities, which exercise their responsibility to make use of health skills. On these principles and constitutional competences, the State and the autonomous communities work every day to ensure the universality of public health, its equity, cohesion and sustainability, and to consolidate and develop our health system, which is one of the best health systems, not only in Europe but in the world, which is the result of the efforts and work of all Spaniards and the National Health System itself over the past forty years. Therefore, Your Honor, the definition of Spanish health as a reference public good is unquestionable not only for Spanish citizens, but also for the rest of the world. A few weeks ago we met Bloomberg's ranking, which places our health system as the world's first in public health. The Bloomberg ranking uses life expectancy, per capita health expenditure and relative expenditure as benchmarks as a proportion of gross domestic product. I will tell you more: confidence in the Spanish health system has also been demonstrated by the data from the last health barometer published last February. 86% of primary care users, 79.5% of patients treated in specialist consultations and 75.8% of those who used emergency services considered the assistance provided by our National Health System to be good or very good. Moreover, yesterday, the WHO literally described the progress of the Spanish Hepatitis C Plan as very impressive. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a source of great satisfaction. The effort that we have all made and that the National Health System has made has made us one of the best in the world - of course, in Europe - and so we must continue. We are all patient, our National Health System is the heritage of all and we must all watch and work to preserve it. Forty years have passed of democratic coexistence and of building a just and supportive welfare state for all citizens, and we must continue to consolidate and develop it. Let's talk about demographic challenges: Spain and Europe face major challenges such as the progressive ageing of the population, low birth rate, increased life expectancy - we are the second country in the world - and the increasing prevalence of chronic diseases and dependence. There has been a positive revolution in our country thanks to the National Health System, the state of well-being and the effort of all, and that is why we are the second country in the world in life expectancy; but all this is related to the demographic challenge of Spain - and of course of Europe - which is facing a new social reality that demands renewed solutions. In Spain there are ten autonomous communities that currently have a negative vegetative balance and throughout the nation demographic projections suggest an uninterrupted decline in the population with a loss of more than half a million inhabitants in 2031 and more than 5 million in 2066. Within this loss, Spain today has 8,800,000 people over the age of 65, but it is expected that in 30 years we will be 17 million. In addition, today we have 14,000 people over 100 years of age and there will be half a million people over 100 years of age by 2050. Our welfare state, and especially our National Health System, have taken a prominent place on the political agenda of this Government. You are anchored in the past, but we look to the future and work the present to improve the future. I will tell you more: we have started this legislature with President Rajoy leading a Conference of Autonomous Presidents at which twelve agreements were reached. There were autonomous presidents of all political forces and, among these twelve agreements, six concern matters of competence of this ministry; subjects shared with other ministries, but six of those twelve agreements, agreed unanimously by the autonomous presidents of different political colors and led by President Rajoy, affect matters of this ministry. I'm going to quote you first. One of the major issues discussed and agreed upon at the Conference of Presidents was autonomous financing, with special reference to financing and public spending on health. It was therefore emphasized that health expenditure is the component that consumes the most resources in the budget of the autonomous communities. The second agreement reached was to make a first national strategy against the demographic challenge that designs a joint and future response among all political groups, all administrations and all citizens to address the changes, challenges and challenges that affect our National Health System. And here I am waiting for you, in this national strategy in the face of the demographic challenge to which all the autonomous presidents committed themselves and to which I am very convinced that you too have to commit yourselves. The financing agreement agreed to strengthen the services contained in the Law on Promotion of Personal Self-Government and Care for Dependent Persons. Therefore, these are the first two agreements. The third major agreement is the state pact against gender-based violence, in which we are working. The fourth point is the social card, led by the Ministry of Employment, but in which the Ministry of Health and Social Services is also involved. There is also the social bonus, which belongs to the Ministry of Energy, but in which we too are involved. And the fifth point has to do with workers' rights. You said they care about workers' rights, but this is not left-wing heritage, we are all workers and we all defend their rights. And precisely because we defend workers' rights, a great deal of agreement was reached at the Conference of Presidents on Public Employment. The Conference of Presidents agreed that we have to work in public employment, moreover, we have come to one of the great agreements of this democracy and, when I say this democracy, I refer to the last forty years. On 29 March 2017, the Government of Spain, together with the trade unions Workers' Commissions, UGT and CSIF, reached a large state agreement for the public service, which pursues three main objectives: to defend the rights of workers of the National Health System. The first major objective is to reduce the rate of temporality in the National Health System to 8% in three years. The second major objective is to ensure a 100% replacement rate for public employees in priority sectors such as health. And the third major objective is to reduce interinity in our National Health System. The nature of the agreement is of such importance that in three years, 129,700 places will be offered to professionals of the National Health System. That is working for our workers, for our professionals and for workers' rights. It is a clear example of commitment to this essential public good, which is health. All these professionals will be able to consolidate their professional career leaving behind the uncertainty of previous years. In the same line of commitment are the General Budgets of the State of this year 2017, in which it is destined for health and consumption 327 million euros, 11 million more than in 2016. The sum of this budget and that of the dependent agencies is 384 million euros, that is, we increase by 4.52% compared to 2016. Moreover, the increase in funding for the autonomous communities must be added to this allocation, which is 53 billion more than last year to finance the autonomous communities, and we believe that they must devote it to the welfare state, i.e. to health, education and social policies. Therefore, we, from the Government of Spain and from the ministry, together with the autonomous communities, want to continue to advance in improving the care response that we offer to citizens; to strengthen the job stability of professionals, with this great historic agreement of democracy; to speed up the implementation and the total interoperability of electronic health, to advance in the monitoring of health and to give a cross-cutting response to the needs of society. As I told you, Spain is a world leader in the health sector and is also one of the major research powers at European level and, as you know, the Spanish Government - led by President Rajoy and coordinated with the Generalitat of Catalonia and the Barcelona City Council - has submitted the candidacy to the European Union to host the European Medicines Agency in Barcelona. We have the experience and the consolidated excellence of our Spanish Medicines Agency, the city of Barcelona is a European reference in innovation and above all we have the strategic map of what we want to achieve. We want Spain to be the scientific hospital for medical, health and pharmaceutical research in Europe and the world. I am convinced that you will support us in this candidacy, which would be a way of strengthening our great National Health System. All we have, scientifically and healthily, is the fruit of the work and effort of all Spaniards for four decades. It is a heritage of all, which I assure you we will develop and consolidate with the help and collaboration of the State and public administrations. That is why this legislature is a great opportunity to reach a great agreement, a state pact for health, which ensures that our children enjoy the benefits of a great system like the one we have met and received. In the Senate there was a motion, tabled by the Socialist Party and the People's Party, to work on a state pact. You, along with Esquerra, were the only ones who voted against it. I ask you to reconsider that vote against that almost unanimous motion, except you and the Republican Left, in favour of a state health pact. I am very pleased that the People's Party and the Socialist Party, together with Citizens and the other groups in the Senate, have been able to put aside our differences and have agreed that it is essential to dialogue and reach agreements to improve our health within the framework of a state pact. Our National Health System has to face such important challenges as demographics - which is what I have commented on - and it is essential that everyone, the autonomous communities, the patients, the professionals, the scientific society, the universities, the professional schools and, therefore, the whole of Spanish society should be supported so that our health services continue to be a reference in Europe and in the world. The improvement of the National Health System is the responsibility of all political parties. I am ready to dialogue with you and reach agreements to improve our health, and I would like all groups to share with me the same attitude and that we can join in that beginning of the state health pact that they have begun in the Senate. In this way we will all live up to what the citizens expect of us. Thank you very much, Mrs Sibina. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u149	Thank you very much, Minister. I now give the floor to Mrs Sibina Camps for the speaking time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u150	Madam Minister, it is a bit disappointing, or rather disappointing, that after six months of holding office you come here to the plenary and continue to read the same papers, exactly the same papers. [[Applauds]] Five minutes don't give at all, absolutely for nothing; I will use five, you will go up, you will use five more; I could go up again - but it won't be - and you five more; it doesn't give at all. He mentions me, for example - I'm going to answer some of the things he said -, the Bloomberg ranking. He also mentioned it when he appeared in the Commission. Minister, whenever you mention the Bloomberg ranking comes to be like mentioning the Big Mac index to be serious about macroeconomics. [[The lady]] The Bloomberg ranking measures the relationship between life expectancy and health spending; life expectancy is only affected by the health system by around 20%, with much more influence being placed on socio-economic, environmental and other conditions than what are called social determinants of health, which as a minister should lead to the centrality of their discourses and policies. Therefore, the relationship between life expectancy and health spending is a good marker, a good marker to detect people who are not very clear about what they are talking about. Life expectancy is hardly changed in the short term, while health expenditure can change rapidly. So, if you want to cut it off, we'd better forget about Bloomberg. Gender-based violence. They do not boast so much of their state pact against gender-based violence because in the bat burrillo that the collectives are setting up they are raising from the table. What he does is talk about the state pact and not budget a single euro in it, for example. On competences, you tell us that the decision of who to assign the provision of health care is of the communities. Minister, this law is state, this problem is systemic. If you want to do this as a ping-pong game and look away and slip the bundle... Put yourself to it, look at it face to face and don't always do the same. I'm running out of time. What we intend - this is important - with the motion that we are going to put forward, and which I hope you will take objectively into consideration, Minister - as I have said before, is quite unlikely that you and I will agree here on this issue - is to make something more clear with the rest of the groups in the parliamentary arc, for example. That is why we will record this motion. On the one hand, how could a law of this kind be made in 1997 and we are still waiting for someone to assess in Spain the impact on the health of the population and on the health system in public-private incursions. On the other hand, we would urge that the necessary rules allowing private provision of public health be repealed and that the drafting of a basic law on public administration should begin, which would give the autonomous communities greater freedom to innovate within the framework of their competences within the public management of private health. I have a couple more things, but since I don't have time, I'm going to tell you exactly what I think I have to tell you right now and I skip the rest. Madam Minister, do not have the slightest doubt - I say it very seriously - that one day - do not hesitate - you and your party, the People's Party, are going to have to apologize, forgive the people of this country, forgive the citizens for having wasted their money; they are going to apologize. This is only a matter of time, well, time and having a little humility and political will, more humility. Do not have the slightest doubt that you will have to apologize to all people for the looting they have done. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u151	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u152	Thank you, President. Mrs Sibina, you read the papers from twenty years ago and I'm talking about the present. I have talked about an agreement of January 2017 on autonomous financing, with a special treatment to the financing of health; I am talking about a historic and unique agreement, since it is the first time that there will be a national strategy of demographic challenges to anticipate and work with these demographic challenges and challenges that await us in the next thirty years; I am talking about one of the great historical agreements with the unions to end the temporality and offer in three years 129 700 places of professionals for the National Health System. You don't care about this or mention it. I am also talking about budgets with an increase of 4.5% for health, which you have not even mentioned. I have also talked about a proposal by the Socialist Group, the People's Group, the Citizens' Group and the other groups in the Senate, except you and the Republican Left, to start work on a health pact. You talk to me about humility and humility is dialogue. Today I have offered dialogue through this pact of state that the political forces, except you, have begun in the Senate. Therefore, this is also to speak of humility. Humilde is the one who listens and dialogues, and I have offered him dialogue. [[Applauds]] I'm talking about present, everything we've done in these six months. We have started talking about autonomous financing, a national strategy for demographic challenges, a historic agreement with trade unions with an offer of 129 700 seats, a budget with an increase of 4.5% and a state pact. This in this period, that is why I am talking about the present in order to really improve our future and, therefore, preserve our great National Health System. You always criticize me with Bloomberg, so I'm going to talk to you about the own survey we have in the ministry, done with the Spanish citizens. I've already given you the data. 85% of our citizens who go to our National Health System say it is very good or good. Therefore, we also need to hear what our citizens and patients - who are all patients - say about the National Health System. As I said in my first speech, our health model is one of the best in Europe and one of the best in the world. It is based on a mixed model between the State and the Autonomous Communities; I would also like to make it clear that the competences are transferred to the Autonomous Communities. However, the State retains exclusive powers such as external health, basic law and general coordination of health, as well as legislation on pharmaceuticals. But, as you know, the process of transfers began in July 1981, with the transfer to Catalonia, and gradually developed throughout Spain: in 1984, to Andalusia; in 1987, to the Basque Country; in 1988, to Valencia; in 1990, to Galicia and Navarre; in 1993, to the Canary Islands and ended in December 2001, with the transfer of competition to the Principality of Asturias, Cantabria, La Rioja, Murcia, Aragón, Castilla-La Mancha, Extremadura, Balearic Islands, Comunidad de Madrid and Castilla y León. From the government of the nation we have a constitutional conviction of the state of autonomy and its decisions on management model over the last decades, which consolidate a National Health System that today is a European and global reference. In his interpellation he referred to some autonomous communities - he spoke of Madrid and Valencia - but in all the autonomous communities, in the seventeen, in the order that you prefer to list them, so much so, regardless of the political sign of your governments, they coexist different management formulas. The reality is that after two decades and the implementation of various forms of management of Spanish health services, the life expectancy of the citizens has increased thanks to the improvement of prevention services, the expansion and improvement of the portfolio of health services, the excellence of the medical-health profession and the support and confidence that the whole of Spanish society has in its health system. As I said in my first intervention, the State Health Pact is the most appropriate framework for analysing each and every one of the issues that have to do with what you have mentioned to me, also with the demographic challenge, with dependence or with how many issues they want to do with the consolidation of our welfare State and, above all, with the National Health System. But you said no to dialogue, no to that motion to which all the parliamentary groups have joined, so you can choose between joining dialogue or saying no, or joining general budgets or saying no to modernization and the future of public health. We defend the National Health System, protect it and improve it, but always from the dialogue that you say you do not. In short, it is you who say no to the National Health System, not to a historic agreement with the unions that will call 129 000 places for the new professionals. Therefore, I again offer you this dialogue that you have begun in the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u153	Thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY, ON ITS POLICIES ON INTERNATIONAL ADOPTIONS IN SPAIN. [[File number 172/000041]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u154	We turn to the urgent inquiry of the Parliamentary Group Citizens to the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality regarding her policies on international adoptions in Spain. Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u155	Thank you very much, President. Minister, you are not the first person we are going to from Citizens to talk about the terrible situation in which the adoption processes are in Spain, both in the case of international and national adoptions. They have made it our fellow Members in different autonomous parliaments, we have done it since Congress and also in the Committee on Children, both in the previous legislature and in the current one. From here, I would like to remind you that a non-legislative proposal submitted by our parliamentary group on 30 November 2016 was adopted more than four months ago. At the time I also addressed Mrs Báñez personally, who was in charge of the ministry at the time, with whom I held a meeting and also later held another meeting with the current Secretary of State, Mr Garcés. So far we have not achieved any results on the part of the Government, but from this rostrum I assure you that Citizens will not stop insisting until the adoption processes are unblocked in our country. When it comes to matters as delicate as this, it is better not to talk about figures because behind them there are people who suffer, in this case children to whom we are taking away a future. Working for only one of them would be worth it, but the point is that we are not only talking about a child, we are talking about the 16 000 children in Spain who are in foster care and 120 million orphans in the world, according to Unicef. We find it very difficult to understand that since there are so many people and so many families in Spain who want to be parents, also meeting the requirements to do so, they cannot be, and above all, that these children cannot be given the opportunity to have a family. Minister, we are aware of how complicated these processes are, they are delicate, but that does not mean that they stop caring, otherwise a much greater effort needs to be made. In Spain, there are about 33,000 foster families waiting, 33,000 households for 33,000 children. What's wrong with them? If something portrays a society, a Government, a political party, is the way in which the problems of the most vulnerable sectors are addressed, and what sector is more vulnerable than children, than those children who are deprived of something as necessary as having a family? You put us in your day the excuse of interinity; the government is in office, you said. What happens now? It's been a long time since they've formed a government. If you don't do it out of sensitivity, do it now just by complying with the regulations, the national and the international. Our question relates to international adoptions, but we must not turn them off from the national ones. People who decide to adopt with good will are not generally thinking about the child's place of birth. And again I give the same data: in Spain there are 16,000 children in reception centres. And curiously, when you ask for information about international adoptions, in many cases you find the deadline closed. It's happened to me personally. Last week I did, I asked for information in the Community of Madrid, and you know what they said to me? The time limit for submitting the application is closed. Do you know how long? For two years, nothing more and nothing less. And, even worse, they don't even know when that deadline will be reopened and whether it will be reopened at some point. The only possibility given to the person who wants to adopt right now is international adoption in some autonomous communities. And I repeat for the third time the same fact: 16,000 children in care centres. Does the Minister take into account that residential care, juvenile centres, should in practice be the last resort? Do you know that in Spain there is an intensive use of it, which also tends to grow more and more? Ladies and gentlemen, we must all know that this is something that separates Spain from the rest of the European countries. We are the country with the highest percentage of children under the age of six in residential care. 80% of foster children enter residential care. Almost all experts point out that the use of residential care should always be the exception and should never be produced in children under six years of age. All these children should be cared for by families, because, if not, we will be destroying that which in psychology or psychiatry is called the attachment capacity, that relationship that a child needs to develop with at least one primary caregiver for such social and emotional development to occur normally. If they suffer from deficiencies at an early age, they will be virtually impossible to compensate in the adolescent or adult stage. We've evolved since Dickens' time, minister. Have you ever considered the progressive closure of some of the existing institutions and attempted to have these children welcomed or adopted by families as advised by most experts, of course leaving specialized centres for cases where family care is truly conflictive? We recognize the law that you made in 2005, the Child Protection Act, but why is it not put in place? And, apart from the law, other measures are also necessary; I do not say it is an easy task, but it is clear that much effort is needed to do so; effort to promote the interest of families by giving them the right information, effort to form them, effort to value them and support them in the important work they will carry out in our society. Minister, when I came to ask for information, I was simply told that the possibilities for national adoptions are currently non-existent. This I would say is cowardice. Let's get on with the international adoptions. Since 2004 they have fallen in bits, 85 %. In that year 5541 minors arrived in Spain, while in 2015 only 799 children arrived. We will not deny that this is an international trend because of the legislative changes that are taking place in the countries of origin, but, of course, in Spain the fall is much greater than in other European countries. This, minister, you know what this has to do with? It has to do with the Government's ability to respond to these changes in the countries of origin. Countries are closing to international adoption, but others are also opening up to compensate, always ensuring clear security is there. This is how most European countries are acting, but in Spain it is not. Since 2012, not a single country has been opened, it has been five years, Your Honor. Why? In addition, from 2015 onwards - despite the fact that just that year or because the amendment of the Child Protection Act came into force - the applications were increased by 22%. The situation of blockade has been worsening more and more and one of the causes - as you well know - is that Law 26/2015, on the protection of children, transfers competence to the State in the following cases: initiate, suspend or limit the processing of adoptions in certain countries and accredit agencies to act as intermediaries. These functions were carried out by the autonomous communities through these authorities. The problem is that at present there is no specific organism - fix me later if I am wrong - within the ministry that performs this function. The Government through a regulation should have developed the law and after two years it has not done so. With this, the current situation is a complete dislate. Although the law states that the General Administration of the State is competent, some autonomous communities continue to play such a role and others have ceased to do so with the consequent cessation of these processes. Minister, you have to comply with the Child Protection Act 26/2015. The Citizens' Group has already repeatedly called for the urgent implementation of these regulations. In the previous parliamentary term - I have already said this - you used the excuse of the interim in which the Government was in place and, therefore, the impossibility of implementing any regulation. In spite of that, you did adopt regulations such as the one for the control of seed potatoes, claiming that in that case it was in the general interest. I ask you: Does the Government of the People's Party of General Interest consider children and the right of minors to have a family? [[Applauds]] With your actions I believe that you have left and continue to make it clear that you are not. Potato at the time was of general interest, but children were not. But that is no longer the only issue, they formed government last October and still do absolutely nothing. We spoke, as I said before, of complying with laws, Your Honor, which were never intended at any time to make an election campaign. Laws are for something else. You are letting yourself spend a precious time, a single year or even months in a child's life can be decisive because it can change your personality and your future. You've let go for many years. Are they going to start already? On the other hand, as you are also well aware, the bodies accredited for intermediation between the authorities of the countries of origin and the families handle almost 90% of the cases. These agencies are non-profit entities that perform a social function, a task that the State is somehow delegating to them. At the beginning of this year there were forty-one accredited agencies, many of them have had to close and all who remain live in a truly suffocating situation. Don't you think you need to do something already from the state? These bodies carry dossiers of many people who have been waiting, some more than ten years waiting, to be able to adopt. Don't you feel responsible for what these families are going through, for the children who might be with them? If the Executive decides not to carry out this work directly, at least they do not block the good work that these organizations are doing, which, by the way, they do without any funding from the State - neither they nor the families who come to them. The situation is unsustainable now, minister. What measures are you going to put in place to stop adoptions being blocked in our country? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u156	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Reyes, thank you for your question because it gives me the opportunity to deal with an issue that is very important to me because of your social burden and sensitivity, as you have explained, and with which the Spanish Government is deeply committed, which is the protection of minors. The protection of minors is a top priority for the Government of Spain. Childhood is the most precious good of a society, and there is no better way to protect it than to give children the opportunity to have a home, a family, that can grow up within a family that teaches them and provides them security, love and affection and guides them in their development as individuals. It is true that the process of adoption, both national and international, is many years old and that this time of waiting and uncertainty for the parents of that beloved child becomes eternal and frustrating. We have important legislative instruments that enable us to provide, in the best conditions and with the greatest security, that protection that children demand and meet the expectations of families who want to host and/or adopt within their home. In particular, the Organic Law of 22 July 2015 on the Legal Protection of Minors, adopted by the Government and which entered into force in August 2015, reinforces the right of the minor to a priority interest. You were talking to me about the interest of the child and, indeed, it is a priority and is thus included in the organic law of 2015. This law reflects the observations of the United Nations and for the first time in our country establishes flexible and open interpretation criteria that allow defining what is to be understood in the best interests of the child, a principle that must be adapted and responsive to the essential rights that assist children in the various circumstances that may affect them. The law identifies the need for children's life and development to take place in an adequate and violence-free family environment in order to meet the right integrated in that best interest. In this context, the law gives priority to family care in front of the residential, that of the reception centers, because we really want our children in Spain to be in families and not in foster care or care centers. In the same vein, the 2015 law amending the system for the protection of children and adolescents, adopted by the Government in July of that year, carries out a thorough review of the institutions of the system for the protection of children, incorporating into our system the United Nations guidelines on alternative forms of care for children both in terms of national and international adoption. This law simplifies the constitution of family care in such a way that the intervention of a judge is not mandatory. As with adoptive families, welcoming women will also be assessed to determine their suitability. The goal is that at least all children under three years of age can live with a family without passing through a reception centre and, in addition, if there are several brothers, they always stay together. In this sense of child protection, both temporary care, which will no longer be necessary in the face of the simplification of family care, and pre-adoptive care, which is ultimately a stage in the adoption procedure, is abolished. The law, therefore, introduces improvements in adoption procedures, which are complemented by more guarantees. Thus, for helpless minors, the consent of biological parents will not be necessary if they have not tried to reverse this situation for two years. The criteria for the suitability of adoptive families are thus unified, including the impossibility of adopting those who are deprived of the parental power of a child, and new developments such as open adoption, which means that some form of relationship or contact with some member of their family of origin can be maintained. With this new law of 2015 we want more Spanish families to have access to family care and adoption without having to look for alternatives in other countries. We are well aware of the difficulties families face throughout the adoption process, but we are also fully committed to each and every child and adolescent in a vulnerable situation. We are working to ensure that no minor has to live his childhood and adolescence in a reception centre, as you well said. With regard to intercountry adoptions, the 2015 law significantly amends Law 54/2007 on Intercountry Adoption. The changes introduced by the law are aimed at ensuring respect for the rights of the child at the various stages of the adoption process. The pre-adoption phase defines future adopters not as applicants but as persons offered to adopt, placing child protection at the centre of the process. It sets out the eligibility requirements and details the obligations of prospective adopters. At the post-adoptation stage, legal consequences are laid down for non-compliance with the obligations with the countries of origin of minors, especially with regard to follow-up reports. It also strengthens the right of access to the origins of adopted persons, requiring the competent public authorities to retain the available information on the origins of the adopted child. The law reinforces the guarantee provisions for intercountry adoptions by requiring the processing to be carried out through the above-mentioned accredited intermediation agencies for intercountry adoption. Moreover, the law provides that it will be the competence of the General Administration of the State, in the terms and under the procedure prescribed by law, to accredit intermediation bodies in international adoption. What does this decision offer? It offers advantages: centralised accreditation, therefore, to a body's attention to citizens residing throughout the national territory, homogenising the requirements and costs for the same country of origin; it also facilitates collaboration in the control and monitoring of accredited bodies; it facilitates a single decision for the initiation and suspension of processing with the countries of origin; the registration of complaints and incidents at national level, as well as a single contract model between applicants and those bodies. The new law introduces other important developments in the rules of private international law, such as the amendment and revision of adoption, consular adoptions, and claudicative adoptions. The law also states that there will be no recognition in Spain of adoptions constituted abroad when Spanish public order is violated, understood for this purpose as the preservation of the best interests of the child, particularly in cases of minors not adoptable because there is no informed, free and free consent of their legal representatives. In cases of adoptions carried out by a Spanish adopter but resident in the country of origin of the adopted person, the law regulates cooperation between the competent authorities of the States concerned and provides for the recognition of dual nationality in cases of international adoption in which the legislation of the country of origin provides for the preservation of their nationality by the adopted child. Your Honor, this ministry is working on the regulatory development of the law, whose approval has indeed been delayed by the time the Government was in office. The drafting of the regulation is of considerable technical complexity, as it confers on the State powers, as you quite rightly said, which have been carried out to date by the autonomous communities, which requires closer cooperation with them. It is the General Administration of the State - you said so too - that assumes, with the cooperation of the Autonomous Communities, the decision to initiate, suspend or limit the processing of adoptions with certain countries, as well as the accreditation, control and monitoring of accredited bodies for adoption. We have already started, and I can tell you that right now the draft legislation is being posted on the website of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, open for public consultation, and will soon be forwarded to the ministries concerned and the autonomous communities for analysis at the next meeting of Directors General for Children and Family and subsequently referred to accredited agencies and other agents. From the Government we are fully aware of the discomfort caused by the delay in the adoption of this regulation, which is why we have started, and that is why we can now say that the draft regulation is in public consultation. I would like to make it very clear that this delay in no way paralyzes the ongoing or forthcoming international adoption processes. Agencies accredited by the public entities of the communities have continued their activities while maintaining their accreditation. Moreover, processing through the competent public authorities has not been affected by this reason, but by changes in the reality of international adoption: the decrease in the number of international adoptions or the change in the profile of adoptable minors in the countries of origin. Your Honor, in recent years international adoption - and you explained it very well - has become complex and has nothing to do with what happened between 1997 and 2004. The very significant changes that have taken place in recent years have resulted in a sharp global and steady decline in the number of adoptions. International adoption experienced a very strong growth from 1997 to 2004. In 2004, the number of children adopted by Spanish families reached a total of 5541 adoptions, compared to 942 adopted in 1997. This figure placed Spain as the second country in the world in international adoptions, after the United States. From 2005 there has been a decrease in adoptions, reaching 2216 adoptions in 2015. In comparison, this decline has been more significant in our country, as you said, a decline of 86% since 2004, compared to 74% overall. This difference is explained by the fact that the starting figures in Spain were very high compared to those in the rest of the countries. For example, in the United States, international adoptions in 2004 amounted to 22,000 people, now falling to 5,600 people. In France, in the same period, there were 4000 people and now there are 815 people. In Sweden it fell from 1100 adoptions to 333. In Germany, 749 minors were adopted in 2004 and now, in 2015, there have been 200 adoptions. On many occasions this decrease in the number of adoptions is motivated by legislative changes in the countries of origin, giving priority to adopters over foreigners. It has also contributed to the ratification or accession of more and more countries to the Hague Convention on Intercountry Adoption, while its effective implementation constitutes real progress, especially through the development of alternative care measures at the national level. Together with this decline, there has been an increase in the number of proposals for allocation by countries of origin of children with special needs: older children, groups of siblings, health and development problems. Only in some countries are these minors proposed for international adoption because they do not have suitable adoptive families in their country, and it is a pleasure to see the solidarity and generosity of many Spanish adoptive families. The best interest of the child is the focus of our policies on foster care and adoption, and their well-being is to help them find a family environment suitable for their development as individuals. My commitment and that of the Government is to ensure that no child is left without a family. Thank you very much, Mrs. Reyes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Reyes Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u159	Thank you, President. We thank you, Minister, for making an extensive presentation of the law, but the truth is that we know it. You do not stop breast-feeding by this law, but you and I both know that it is practically useless if the necessary regulatory development is not affected. You have already made too many rules that are not met either because you lack legal instruments or because you do not have a budget. You say that the rules have come to public information. This is not a regulation, Your Honor. [[Show a document]] About a year ago we were told that this regulation was practically done. The truth is, we still don't see it. Anyway, I tell you that we are very happy that you want to push it and we will continue to insist on everything that is necessary and more. Last year, because of an interpellation on child poverty by Mrs Belarra of the United Group of the European People's Party, you assumed that law and recognized that such a regulation was necessary in terms of reception and adoption. It's been six months since you said it here and there's no record of the rules. We've been listening for a long time now that you're working on it. What's the problem with him not coming out? Please tell us. The reality that we are living is not the one that appears in the law. The reality that we are living is what I explained in my first intervention. Does it seem reasonable to you that international adoption procedures may take ten years? Many adopters fail to meet age requirements and have to give up. Is it reasonable for national adoptions to be closed in several autonomous communities such as Madrid? Is it reasonable that if someone in Madrid wants to adopt a child, it cannot be a child in Granada, for example? That's what they tell potential adopters in some social services. You are shielded from the fact that children in the centres do not meet the expectations of adoptive families. That is how they answered a written question we asked the Government. Is this really like this? I know several families who want and are able to adopt older children or children with diseases or pathologies. In the autonomous community in which they live, they are told that they do not have children of these characteristics and that they cannot access information from other autonomous communities. Is this not a lack of coordination? This is currently happening because the Government is not acting with sufficient diligence. For many people, international adoption is the only alternative to forming a family, as I have said, in the same way that for many minors it is the only possible measure of protection when they do not find an adequate family environment in their country of origin. We cannot close the possibility for the Spaniards to adopt and those children to have a home. You spoke of the difficulty of international adoptions. He said that the fact that the number of adoptions in Spain fell more than in other countries was due to the fact that at the time we adopted a lot. You mean this we want to adopt less now? Because we have 33,000 families waiting, minister. Does it not seem to you at least curious that the rest of the European Union adopts in 45 countries that Spain keeps closed? Haiti, Sri Lanka, Ghana, Nigeria, Kenya, Taiwan, South Africa, Ukraine, Cameroon, and could continue reading. They are countries that are open to such suspicious places as France, Germany, Denmark or Switzerland, for example. Are you going to consider opening up these countries to adoption? If so, what body will authorize it and what will be the mechanism? From Citizens we believe that there is a lack of function in this area because out of the 35 open countries, in practice, they only move effectively Vietnam, China, Russia, Bulgaria and Ethiopia, and now I explain to you what happens in each one because in many of them they are about to close down. In China, current forecast, average wait, ten years. In Russia, the average waiting time has been five years and now the allocations are only for children with severe medical diagnoses. Some autonomous community has even closed it because of the serious difficulties in the processing of files. In Ethiopia, they can no longer be applied for. Only adoptions for children with special needs are processed in Vietnam, which you also do not promote through information campaigns. In the Philippines, processing is becoming increasingly complicated, with an average waiting period of six years. Isn't it that, since you don't process the files, you don't have real knowledge of what's going on? Listen at least to the bodies dealing with this matter. Madam Minister, you must now put the necessary means in place to stop the adoption process from being blocked in our country. And, minister, let's not be afraid of the different family models either. There is the traditional family, which we too will defend, but there are other models such as families with adopted children and even coming to this world through subrogated gestation, families with heterosexual couples or homosexual couples. Open your eyes to changes in society. Finally, I repeat what I said at the beginning of the inquiry: from Citizens we will not stop insisting until the adoption processes are unblocked, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u160	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Reyes, as I said in my first speech, the best interests of the child are our top priority. Why have I explained the law well? Because you asked me about the child's interest and I wanted to answer that we made that law, which is the first law in democracy that defends the protection of the child's interest. In the past legislature we amended the Adoptions Act to speed up foster care and adoptions, surely. Now I'm going to talk to you about the processes, which have to be safe to protect the child's interest. I would like to make it clear, as you have spoken of different countries, that the International Adoption Act provides that applications for adoption will not be processed in the following circumstances: where the country in which the child has his or her habitual residence is in war conflict or immersed in a natural disaster, where there is no specific authority in the country to control and ensure adoption and where adequate guarantees for adoption and the practices and procedures of adoption in the country do not respect the interests of the child or comply with international ethical and legal principles. I listened to her very carefully, but I didn't hear her talk about security and protection, about security in the proceedings. On the basis of these considerations that I have just made, adoption is open in Spain to 34 countries and by 2015 adopted children have arrived in our country from 28. The five most significant countries of origin are: China, Russian Federation, Vietnam, Ethiopia - of this special case I will deal with later - and the Philippines. After analysing the situation in countries, one of the Government's greatest concerns is to ensure that adoptions are made with the necessary guarantees, the first and basic being the adoption of minors. In other words, we must ensure that the child is orphaned, that he or she has actually been abandoned by his or her parents or that they have given consent for his or her adoption without being subjected to pressure or unaware of the consequences of it. We must be aware that there can be a case that behind an apparently correct adoption mafia and child trafficking can be hidden. Due to the lack of guarantees in the adoption process and within the framework of the Inter-Self-Governing Commission on Children and Family Affairs, two measures have been taken: the suspension of adoptions with the following countries: Cape Verde, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Haiti, Nepal and Ukraine, as well as the non-initiation of cases in Cambodia, Kyrgyzstan and other countries. Furthermore, on 21 April 2017, the Ethiopian Government decreed the temporary suspension of international adoptions on the grounds that it had received several complaints of corruption and trafficking in children. This suspension affects all files, regardless of the situation in which they are located. In Spain there are 460 families awaiting allocation and 46 families with a minor allocation. In addition, I am pleased to inform you that the Spanish Embassy in Addis Ababa has managed to release the situation of the six families with a final adoption decision. However, the rest of the files remain paralysed until further notice. This ministry is in constant contact through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation with the Spanish Embassy in Addis Ababa, which keeps us informed of developments. Finally, I should like to inform you that a meeting with the Autonomous Communities concerned will be held in the near future to study the situation in Burundi, where 30 adoptions have been committed for the bankruptcy of an accredited body. Sometimes things from here look one way and there from another and get complicated, but what we are clear is that we must always protect safety and guarantee in the procedure. In the world there are many children waiting for a home and in Spain there are many families who are willing to provide them with the protection, care and love they need for their development as people. This is why the Ministry is continuously working on the study of new countries for international adoption that guarantee the best interests of the child and the legal certainty of the procedures. We are currently working for the opening of Slovakia and South Africa and are in the process of studying Haiti and South Korea. I end with a message of thanks to the Spanish adoptive families for their generosity and example, because every day they show the values that define this great country of solidarity. That they have no doubt that, by submitting to public consultation the draft regulation, this Government and this minister are committed to speeding up, always with the maximum guarantees, both of reception and of international adoption. We are very clear that we need to reduce the number of children in our reception centres and that they need to be with families, because it is in the family home where they can best grow and be educated. They have no doubt that we will continue to work. We have already put in place this draft and I am at the disposal of your parliamentary group to talk about this regulation. We have to do this together with the autonomous communities so that I have commented on the competences, which have been re-stated, but I want to coordinate and dialogue with them because it is an issue that affects the General Administration of the State, the Government of Spain, but above all the autonomous communities. We cannot forget the competence of the autonomous communities both in reception centres and in the issue of adoptions. I would therefore like to do so by dialogue with political groups and also with the autonomous communities, which are a key element in the processes of reception and national and international adoption. Thank you very much, Mrs. Reyes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u162	Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE ON POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITIES THINKING OF THE CONSEQUENCE OF MANIOBRAGES IN THE FISCAL MINISTER ADDRESSED TO OBSTACULATE DETERMINED JUDICIAL CAUSES AGAINST CORRUPTION AND THE MINISTER'S PROPOSALS IN RELATION TO THESE CAUSES. [[File number 172/000042]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u163	We now turn to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's urgent appeal to the Minister of Justice on the political responsibilities he intends to assume as a result of the manoeuvres that have taken place within the prosecutor's office aimed at impeding certain judicial cases against corruption and the Minister's own actions in relation to these cases. For your defense, Mr. Rallo Lombarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u164	Thank you, President. Minister, with the PP in the government we thought we had seen everything in Spanish justice, but you have multiplied our astonishment capacity. By telling him that it has made his predecessor good - I don't tell him anymore - I think it should be enough for him. I will just remind you of some recent episodes that we have already had well in mind today. In mid-February you were caught in fraganti informing today's resigned former president of Murcia of the proceedings of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. You were caught giving the clap, the good news, to your party partner, advancing that the new attorney general had managed to impose himself on the prosecutors of Murcia to avoid their initial imputation. To be so, the serious thing about that slippery episode was not that you knew the steps of the prosecution and acted as a correveidile between the prosecutor and the former president of Murcia; the worst thing was that you professionally assaulted the prosecutors, flagrantly violating the autonomy of the prosecutor's office and causing an unknown answer to date in the fiscal career and the Fiscal Council. I'll tell you more. Even worse, it was found that a prosecutor-general who had been unexpectedly appointed by the government a few weeks earlier - on his proposal, minister - orchestrated an operation aimed at a single purpose: to undermine the efforts of prosecutors in the fight against corruption and to guarantee the impunity of a leader of the PP against allegations of corruption. It was an operation that culminated a few days later, without sight of blush or guilt or complex of the attorney general, with the cessation of the chief prosecutor of Murcia; and not only that, as we will see below. Minister, a few days later, on February 22, you appeared in this House. As I have just told you, Mrs Isabel Rodríguez, who denounced this intolerable interference, this contempt for the autonomy of the prosecutor's office and this absolute lack of knowledge of the law, had to hear from my colleague. You unchanged, as usual, appealed to the credit and respect of the institutions. In that same session I reminded him of Mr. TorresDulce's clamorous resignation, the same as months ago he warned that he would resign the day he felt threatened by his autonomy by the Government. I reminded her of the non-renewal of Mrs. Madrigal, surprising for everyone because she is a woman of long and recognized professional career. Finally, I denounced Mr. Maza's appointment as an obedient, docile and domesticated attorney general. I confess to you, Minister, that having hit these hard - almost cruel - qualifying ones does not cause me any satisfaction. But you, minister, again showed your unchanging pose and did not show any signs of blush. I recognize you, Minister, that few people in our public life handle this technique of self-control just like you do. You got involved in the constitutional flag and dedicated some phrases worth remembering here today. He asked how a professor of constitutional law could question the functioning of justice or the presumption of innocence, or how I dared to qualify the Attorney General as a docile and domesticated person. Really, minister, with the phone conversations we've met these days, aren't you going to change the rictus even minimally? Maybe we'll get something before this debate is over. But what could seem like a regrettable episode, an isolated government control operation of the prosecution to save one of its own, soon a whole long-term strategy, a strategy to instrumentalize the prosecution for its political benefit, and to guarantee impunity for the PP's charges in all pending criminal cases for corruption was revealed. Two days after that debate, on 24 February, the Council of Ministers ceased the Chief Prosecutor of Murcia and committed two unsuspected appointments: that of Mr Moix, as Chief Prosecutor of Anti-Corruption, without any experience in this area and in the face of solvent and recognized candidates, and that of the Chief Prosecutor of the National Court, Mr Alonso, who has not yet played any starring role in this tragedy, but I imagine that everything will come. Mr Alonso replaced Mr Zaragoza, who aspired to renew in a post he had been playing without a stain and with the recognition of all. Such unheard-of appointments found no better justification in the Attorney General than the need to incorporate new airs and new impulse, and those new airs and new impulses - to scandal of their own and strangers - did not take long to be evident in Mr. Moix's scarce two months at the post. Two months in which he has tried to avoid searches and listening to those investigated in Operation Lezo, in which he has tried to remove the chief prosecutor from Operation Lezo, in which he has tried to remove prosecutors who have investigated corruption in Catalonia, in which he has stopped allegations of accused of corruption against the anti-corruption prosecutors themselves, and in which he has proposed to punish the media to gag freedom of the press in the fight against corruption. And all that in two months, by the way, minister, emulating you, the same journalistic gag you proposed on April 29. You are creating a school in defense of our constitutional rights. Fortunately, minister, in this country there are great professionals, in the press, in the prosecution and in the judiciary, free and full journalists at the service of democracy, self-sacrificed prosecutors and committed to the fight against corruption and independent judges who guarantee, in spite of you, the functioning of our rule of law. To all of them our gratitude and gratitude; Spanish society is undoubtedly indebted to them. Minister, it is not necessary for you to go up to this rostrum to read us a retahíla of articles of the Constitution, of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, of the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. [[Protests]] We all know that. Do not go up to this rostrum to overact by appealing to the autonomy of the public prosecutor's office. Don't bother reminding us of article 27 of the organic statute, don't want to enhance the constitutional value of independence, don't fly the banner of the presumption of innocence as a mantra that still protects them. On the presumption of innocence I will remind you, Minister, of you and some unknown member of your group, that everything has an end, that the presumption of innocence is not eternal, and that there are not a few of the co-religionaries, your co-religionaries of the PP, who are already in prison - with firm convictions or not - and are going to be for decades. As a Valencian, I could remind you of some cases. Although, yes, I must admit that your number, compared to the long list of illustrious PP names that are currently in pre-trial detention, is still not significant. But everything will come. Do not engage in the presumption of innocence, which we teach in the classrooms of law schools to unbelieving students, who unfortunately you have engaged in unbelief, forging the presumption of indecency in the face of the presumption of innocence. [[Applauds]] Indecency because no other name has how you have manipulated and corrupted the functioning of the central institutions of our democracy, in particular that which we are dealing with today, the Public Prosecutor's Office. Minister, how do you describe the obscene talks of Mr Zaplana, Mr Cerezo and Mr González? He's not going with you, apparently. How much I have told you would seem curses, cursing conjectures if the clumsy reality did not turn this story into an indisputable reality, because six months ago Ignacio González already knew that Moix would be appointed Anti-Corruption Prosecutor and that Alonso would go to the National Court. That's very clear-cut! That sounds to you, doesn't it, minister? You've been reminded of it here today, too. I think we can put the D.A. Anti-corruption case: if it comes out, it's lame; it's called Moix. And adding: I don't cut out to tell Rafa that the state apparatus and the media either have them controlled or you're dead. And today your text to Ignacio González, Minister, has full meaning. The troubles I wanted to get rid of were the judicial troubles. But this is not an isolated episode, it is part of a bold strategy between Moncloa and Genoa, inspired by Mr Rajoy, from which you are merely an executioner, who pursues a single objective: the impunity of the PP against corruption. You have not been able with the judges, in particular with the investigating judges, independent in our country, and you want to make the prosecution your Trojan horse in justice to control the criminal charge, without concealing your desire to suppress the popular charge and to condition the precautionary measures taken by the investigating judges. You are indifferent to the enormous cost that this degradation of justice generates in the credibility of our rule of law. This is a desperate attempt to achieve impunity, not only political but personal, and it is a very sad conclusion, Minister. Today you here, with a minimum of dignity, should assume your political responsibilities, before Mr Rajoy drops you, because you do not hesitate, sooner it will happen later. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u165	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, I now call on the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u166	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rallo, thank you very much for telling me what I must not talk about in this rostrum. In any case, I will try to defend my arguments, regardless of whether you believe yourself in possession of the truth, and therefore tell me what we can and cannot talk about. [[Applauds]] Dostoyevski said that in order for the truth to be credible, you have to add some lies, and reading his interpellation and listening to his intervention seems to me to have gone a bit out of hand the use of lies, because in each sentence, in each paragraph there is an uncertainty or something that is not true. It seems to me that if we want to find the truth in any matter - and this may be a very important matter - it cannot be done from the lack of rigour, from manipulation and from demagoguery, as you have done, Your Honor. You have come to this plenary with the intention of generating confusion; you have not come to seek answers, you have come to intoxicate; you have not come to clarify, you have come to destroy and not to build, and that is as obvious as this afternoon the appearance of the Attorney General of the State and myself is called, and you, without waiting for those appearances, have considered that this urgent inquiry made sense without waiting as I say to the appearances this afternoon. I believe that these kinds of approaches do much harm to the institutions because they create mistrust, because if you sow the doubt of the work on the Attorney General's Office you do harm, Your Honor, to the daily work of 2500 prosecutors who every day protect citizens' rights and protect law enforcement. You say that there are continuous references to corruption and that the Government and the prosecution are covering up this corruption. I am not going to go in and give you the review of the more than six hundred investigated and of the EUR 4300 million public defrauded in cases that are affected by people belonging to the Socialist Party. I'm not going to do it because I wouldn't have time, I'd run out of time for this questioning and I want to talk about the prosecution and the work that prosecutors do every day. In your speech you say that the Attorney General, Mr. Maza, was appointed by the Government. It is true that the Attorney General of the State is appointed by the Government, as it has always been throughout our history because it is the constitutional model, and the chief prosecutors, are also appointed by decree of the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the State Attorney General. What you have not said is that the Fiscal Council, the body composed of prosecutors elected by their colleagues and whose decisions are made in a democratic manner, is heard beforehand. Your Honor, the Government does not appoint the person it considers, appoints the person proposed by the Attorney General of the State, endorsed by the majority of the Fiscal Council. It does not seem to you to be a participatory and democratic system, so we are waiting for you to make an alternative proposal on how to make the appointments of the chief prosecutors. Secondly, you accuse - nothing more and nothing less, you will know - the Attorney General of the State of trying to prevent criminal investigations linked to corruption. Your Honor, I find that accusation very serious. I'm sure you'll have evidence to prove it, because if I don't think it's a serious irresponsibility that you're in. It does so, for example, by applying it to an investigation concerning the former President of the Government of the Autonomous Community of Murcia. In this case, the State Attorney-General acted exactly as prescribed by the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. The matter was examined by six prosecutors, Your Honor, who found no reason to proceed against the previous president. Please note that of these six Supreme Court prosecutors several of them are recognized as associated with the Progressive Union of Prosecutors and several of them have been appointed by the State Attorney General, Don Cándido Conde-Pumpido. I do not think they are suspected of being partisans or partisans or of wanting to support any autonomous president of the People's Party. However, those prosecutors who reported against you do not deserve any merit, because you know that there were pressures for six Supreme Court prosecutors to report negatively a motion of indictment. The Fiscal Council, the representative body of prosecutors, has said that it defends and sustains the functional autonomy of the prosecutor's office, and gives the certainty that all decisions taken within it are in accordance with legal and statutory procedures. However, ladies and gentlemen, that a president of an autonomous community that has been opened to, I think I recall, sixteen cases by the prosecutor's office of that autonomous community you say that you want to protect him, less badly, because if we hadn't wanted to protect him I don't know what would have happened then. The third and fourth paragraphs of his inquiry and on what he has intervened in this rostrum follow the same direction, because he attributes a series of actions to the Government, the State Attorney General and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor in the so-called Operation Lezo. Again, the Attorney General and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor have given instructions against the investigation and the conduct of searches. You see, what has been done, once again, is the normal functioning of that institution, and therefore the joint work of the prosecutors, the legal debate, and the discrepancies have been resolved as set out in the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office, that is, in a board of prosecutors where the majority were imposed on the opinion of the chief prosecutor, who could have maintained his opinion, because he has competence to do so, but considered that it was more appropriate to proceed with the petitions of the prosecutors who had known the case. And so it has been done: all the records, all the interventions have been carried out, the interim measures have been proposed and those people who are so protected are today in provisional detention, decreed by a judge and requested by the prosecutor Anti-Corruption. Moreover, that autonomy of the prosecutor's office is not that I say it, it is not my opinion nor is it my opinion; the Fiscal Council says it, the Association of Prosecutors has said it and also, look at it, the Progressive Union of Prosecutors that in a statement of the 4th of May stated - open quotes -: 'The perception that has been transmitted from a prosecutor's office to the service of political interests does not correspond to reality, but that - they endorse - the institution is made up of magnificent professionals who exercise their constitutional function every day'. That's what the Progressive Prosecutors' Union says, not me, Your Honor. In addition - again - they introduce another fallacy in their exhibition, which is that the Chief Anti-Corruption Prosecutor has wanted to remove one of the prosecutors carrying out the investigation of this Operation Lezo. I do not know what information you have, Your Honor, what I have - from the media - is that it is the prosecutor who legitimately requests the Board of Prosecutors and announces to the chief prosecutor that he wants to leave the prosecutor's office. It turns out that within a few days he no longer wants to leave, he wants to stay, so the chief prosecutor does what he does is ask for his commission of services to be renewed. Therefore the disfocus is absolute. If anyone raises the possibility of leaving, it is the prosecutor, who can do so legitimately, who is in commission of services and who has his place in another province, although it is himself, that prosecutor, who decides to stay following the request of the Chief Anti-Corruption Prosecutor for the continuation and extension of the commission of service. You, and also earlier Mr.Siancas, have insinuated that the Chief Anti-Corruption Prosecutor is a person appointed to help cover up corruption scandals. The chief prosecutor Anticorruption, in addition to having thirty-one years of career - which I consider to be a merit in itself - was appointed in 2003 chief prosecutor of Madrid by the then government, and in 2008 the Minister of Justice, Mr Mariano Fernández Bermejo, raised a proposal to the Council of Ministers to renew him in his post, therefore was renewed by a socialist government. The same chief prosecutor was appointed in 2015 as prosecutor of the Supreme Court, and the Fiscal Council was supported by progressive prosecutors of the Progressive Union of Prosecutors. In short, this attempt to tarnish Mr Moix's prestige by trying to show that he is a prosecutor close to the current government or the People's Party is absolutely fallacious, and it is an absolute injustice with all his professional career. In any case, Your Honor, the facts disassemble the lies, because those that you are supposed to have wanted to protect are in prison, and because all those actions that the prosecutors have proposed to do in connection with this Operation Lezo, each and every one of them, have been carried out. You also referred to the new Chief Public Prosecutor of the National Court, who was the Lieutenant Public Prosecutor, that is, the second of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the National Court and who had been working for many years. I don't know if I understand that you're sending him a warning to see what he's going to do, to see if now it turns out he's going to make decisions that you don't like. The chief prosecutor of an institution as important as the National High Court is appointed in accordance with his statute to carry out his mission, and I am sure that Mr Alonso will do so. In addition, and introducing insidia, you suggest that my communications, in plurality, with Mr González demonstrate a comrade, a friendship; I have even heard this morning that I warned you that I do not know what things. Your Honor, I believe that if you are looking for people who have good relations with Mr González, you should look into the hemeroteca and Google and perhaps find images of Mrs Susana Díaz or the chairman of the Socialist Party's manager by taking pictures in this House with Mr González; perhaps you can ask them what his closeness is and what his friendships are. [[Applauds]] In any case, truly, Your Honor, if you intend to convince someone that six months ago Mr Gonzalez knew who was to be appointed, when the government was not even formed or who was to be the Minister of Justice or the Attorney General of the State, you are eager to generate speculation and conspiracy theses. When you say that it is Mr González and Mr Zaplana who make the decisions in this government, you will know what you want to say and pass on to the citizens. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end this intervention by telling you that we are still in time to stop this, because neither the prosecution nor the prosecutors nor the citizens nor the Spanish society deserve as much use as that institution is being made of as important for our freedoms, for our rights and for our democracy. I am very much in favour of building and not of demolishing, and I prefer to add wills to the noise that some intend to carry out. I still think that in this legislature we are at a time prone to shared construction, to develop projects of reforms of our criminal justice, to work for the autonomy of the prosecutor's office, to strengthen its position. I also very much agree with Minister Caamaño, who left a bill to reform the law which proposed that the prosecutor should investigate the cases and the judge should be a judge of guarantees and a judge of guardianship of rights. Let us therefore work in that direction, strengthen the institution and stop raising insidiaries that do not have a single basis in fact in all its arguments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Rallo Lombarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u168	Thank you, President. Minister, listening to you now we can only come to a conclusion, and that is that you are out of reality. Your last sentence appealing to the agreement, to the consensus, to the need for legal reforms, to amend the Criminal Procedure Act to strengthen criminal investigation through the prosecutor, etc., etc., do you believe that in the current state of affairs, with what we have experienced over the past week, which is perfectly documented in the press of the last few days, you can still finish your intervention by making this pseudofalse invitation to agreement and consensus? Minister, you're out of reality. Evidently here we all have to prove and prove everything; you nothing. But reality is indisputable. As undeniable as it is that in the face of his conspiracy theories the press of the day, that of the day, must not go back one, two, three, four or five days, that of the day illustrates us with a new headline: Mr. Maza knew eight days before naming the prosecutor Anticorruption who was González' favorite. And he named it! He named it; it will happen, all this is a mere conjecture, a general conspiracy against the People's Party. It is clear that what hurts you about all this is that you would have wanted the Spaniards not to know. That's the drama. And that is why - among other things - the proposals to attack freedom of information. The truth is that you can't resist a recording of your conversations either in a hotel or in an official office or in the Magic Box. You may be involved in the flag of the Constitution, of the organic status, of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, but I will tell you that here we are not talking about formal guarantees that our order contemplates. We're talking about constitutional loyalty. We are speaking with full understanding of the constitutional role of the prosecution and of the rest of our country's judicial institutions. Nothing can prevent those formal guarantees that our system contemplates if, as we have seen, who is appointed to a position as the Attorney General of the State is obedient and submissive, and knows perfectly well what the purpose of his appointment is, long before it is, without the need for additional formal instructions. Constitutional loyalty. Minister, it is clear that the conclusion we have reached in this debate is no other than that you are the armed arm of a strategy designed by Mr Rajoy. You're the problem. You, after your melifluous airs and your room pseudopactism, no longer deceives anyone. You are that armed arm of an orchestrated strategy, not to fight corruption, but quite the opposite: to fight the fight against corruption. And you have to admit that you're succeeding, that you're a real lethal weapon, a killer. You have already collected tasty pieces on the heads of several prosecutors. But don't hesitate, I told you before, I repeat: either he assumes his political responsibilities with dignity or sooner or later it will be Mr Rajoy who covers his head. Do not forget that from 'Luis be strong' to'stop naming the countless' there is only one step, and you have already received the first message: 'Rafa, be strong, these things happen'. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u169	To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u170	Thank you, President. Your Honor, indeed, I believe in politics as a way of solving the problems of society and citizens, and that is why I will strive for as long as I am the Minister of Justice to do politics with capitals for justice and for the rule of law and to build. And so I will continue to offer dialogue to the first party of the opposition and I will continue to offer the possibility of working together, especially as when I came to the Ministry of Justice I met with documents drawn up by the previous teams of the Ministry of Justice in which I had proposed, consider, reasonable, I recognize, of legal quality, of a sense of state, and therefore why we are not going to work in this legislature, Mr Rallo, in the improvement of our judicial system, in the strengthening of institutions, in the best day-to-day functioning of justice? Well, except perhaps it is that you are not in this, perhaps it is that you have your internal problems, in addition to the international horizon where the socialist parties are disappearing in Europe - at least with that mark - and that yesterday's CIS places you - you have the great merit, already said Mrs Susana Díaz: that some settle for being seconds - only in front of third parties, and perhaps that already seems to you enough. Perhaps that is their problem, which prevents them from working to improve the rule of law in Spain, to reform the laws, because if you think it is not a reasonable project to change the 19th century Criminal Prosecution Act, as a man. It seems to me that these days are certainly not the best to introduce bills, to see if the noise is over, to see if we get to work on what matters, to see if we really work on the subcommission for justice reform. I will come here to answer questions, questions, appearances, to see if there is any luck, and also in the Committee on Justice we are working on some bill that can move forward with the objectives that all Spaniards and legal operators are looking forward to. You are committed to continuing to say that the Attorney-General of the State, a judge of the Supreme Court with more than thirty-five years of career and now the Attorney-General of the State, is an obedient and submissive person. I think they are doing your parliamentary group and you yourself a little favour by doing these personal considerations of a derogatory nature, as when you call me a melifluous one. [[Mr Rallo Lombarte's refusals]] It has given me time to look into the RAE dictionary which means strictly, and as it is 'delicate in the deal' I don't offend. Being delicate in the treatment seems to me almost a compliment and not an insult or a contempt, as you have surely wanted to do. [[Mr Rallo Lombarte's refusals]] Your Honor, I think we need to continue working to improve our institutions. Let us solve the problems that the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office has, let us equip it with the places it needs, let us equip it with the capacities to be able to do its job well, and above all, Your Honor, let us not raise false testimonies, let us not say something of which it has no proof. Mr Moix is a magnificent prosecutor who has been a member of the career for more than thirty years, who has proven his skills and competences. Do you know what's going on, Your Honor? That all prosecutors know that and anyone who talks to a prosecutor knows that's true. Let's see if it turns out that what's worrying about is what Mr. Moix can do to make the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office work well. Let's see if it's going to be that if there's a problem, it's because someone wants things not to change either in the National Court or in the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office or in the State Attorney's Office. Let's see if that's going to be what's at the bottom of the matter. So let's let the prosecutors work, let's leave them all. When there's less prosecutor's cover, things will be better. When there are fewer leaks, the less crimes are committed in the revelation of secrets the better things will go. I hope that the actions being carried out by the Office of the Attorney-General, for example, to investigate why every step taken in summaries that are subject to secrecy is immediately known, will also strengthen institutions and strengthen the confidence of operators as well as of citizens as a whole. Your Honor, the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office - and I want to finish my intervention by saying it - works brilliantly, they're doing more and more work. They are more prosecutors because this government has increased the number of anti-corruption prosecutors by 40%, given them more support from the tax agency, the state security forces and bodies and they are responding with more actions. They have made 68% more indictments, doubled the investigation procedures and the entry documents have increased by 36%, because citizens trust the prosecution. So let us continue to support them to do their job well, draw them from the focus of the political debate that brings nothing to them or to the confidence of the citizens, and do what is necessary from this House to improve the regulatory framework. Let us be able to promote the reforms our justice needs. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u171	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u172	We continue with the debate on the motions as a result of urgent appeals. Firstly, a motion for urgent questioning by the Socialist Group on the absence of a comprehensive strategy in the industrial policy of the Government. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u173	Thank you, Madam President. The absence of an industrial strategy co-participated by the actors involved in the sector has led to more and more voices calling for dialogue and industrial agreements; a demand that has gained strength and weight with the ministerial reorganisation that has meant the definitive disappearance of a single ministry of reference for the industrial sector. The vast majority of economic and social players in the sector have made this claim explicit. We share with them the need to create a permanent framework for dialogue and consultation in order to provide responses to the challenges and opportunities that arise continuously, and at exponential speed in the economic sector and especially in the industrial sector. We therefore propose, first of all, to recover and update sectoral industrial observatories with social and economic actors as an area for ongoing dialogue and consultation for the analysis, evaluation and promotion of new industrial policy measures. We call for an update capable of incorporating the positive of past experience, recovering the spirit of social dialogue, the analysis of the experiences of other countries with industrial tradition and the sum of efforts for a common purpose. We do not propose to re-centralize or tutor this proposal from the State. A large part of industrial policy is part of the autonomous competences, but there are issues that also depend on the state and many that require a shared strategy as a Member State, within the common European strategy, in an increasingly competitive and globalised market. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving towards total connectivity and if there are millions of citizens and things connected today, all the administrations and social and economic actors involved should also connect to achieve an efficient productive model; based on knowledge and innovation; able to anticipate and adapt quickly to new opportunities, improving their productivity and thus that of the economy; a model that generates quality employment that promotes inclusive growth. That is the goal: to grow better in order to redistribute and correct inequalities. Sectoral conferences play an important role, but other sectoralised forums need to be opened in order to join a common strategy. It is essential for the Government to carry out its constitutional role of directing domestic policy and to establish a consensual global strategy to improve the competitiveness of our industry, to make it more dynamic, more internationalized, with higher levels of investment in R & D+i. It's about optimizing resources by getting maximum performance. In fact, the Commission and the European Parliament insist on their communications and resolutions on the need for a more integrated approach to industrial policy, with sectoral initiatives that drive and develop a global strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. Today, strategies from different ministerial departments, with direct involvement in the production model of this country, are either expired or at an initial stage of proposal, so there is currently no such strategy and the budgets for the 2017 financial year are evidence of this. In addition, budgets have become a short-term process tool that does not reflect a coordinated strategy within a broad time frame and with territorial consensus. That is why we propose, secondly, to draw up an industrial strategic plan setting out the priority objectives of the various industrial sectors and to develop sectoral action plans, with a short- and medium-term budget allocation and with a permanent evaluation system that facilitates the adaptation of action measures to new objectives, forwarding it to the Committee on Economics, Industry and Competitiveness of the Congress prior to its adoption by the Council of Ministers. We want the committee to be an effective channel for the transmission of proposals. Thirdly, we specify a number of measures which we believe should be part of the comprehensive strategy and which would involve the coordination and involvement of the various relevant ministerial departments and contribute to increasing the productivity of our industry. Firstly, it must be a priority to move forward in an energy model with affordable and competitive prices, as energy for many industries has become the determining factor in measuring competitiveness and, therefore, its viability and continuity in Spain. We propose to avoid bottlenecks with improvements in logistics and transport infrastructure, promoting complete logistics chains; increasing resources for innovation and R & D aligned with the European strategy; promoting intellectual and industrial property; it would also be interesting to promote an alternative and free system for the protection of industrial design, with particular attention to traditional SMEs and sectors and to develop a legal framework for the protection of non-agricultural designations of origin. At the European Community level, working groups are already being set up in which Spain should play a leading role, as traditional Spanish manufacturing sectors could benefit from these measures. To promote digitization processes in the industrial sectors, with special attention and increasing resources in the digital transformation of SMEs; the digital agenda strategy and connected industry are out of date and the economic resources that the Government is devoting to this objective do not reflect this priority. Analyze and address the effects of the replacement of employment by the mechanization and robotization of systems in the industrial sectors, identifying the training and training needs of the human factor and the recognition of new market niches and new employment sites. We are planning other measures, such as promoting the growth and dynamism of SMEs, investing in diversification of sources of business finance and strengthening public resources to boost aid and guarantees for strategic industrial projects, strengthening resources for internationalisation, revising, improving and updating regulations for regulatory control and industrial security in the face of the worrying increase in events linked to industrial security. Finally, we also propose to promote and facilitate industrial processes that tend towards the circular economy through objectives aimed at achieving zero discharge. Some doubt the scope of such motions, but my group and I firmly believe in the constitutional role of this House and the importance of the agreements and consensuses that we approve most of them. In fact, it will be the time that will tell the scope of this motion. At the moment, it is a way of channelling social and collective concern, a subject on which all the actors have spoken, and we have a great opportunity to agree on what, in fact, basically we agree on. In conclusion - if I may, Madam President - I would like to use my last words to thank all the rapporteurs of the various groups for their willingness to reach consensus in the discussions leading up to this debate, as well as to thank them for the various contributions they have made through amendments. With this good predisposition we are working on a compromise amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u174	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca is speaking by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u175	Thank you very much, Madam President. This parliamentary initiative makes it possible to discuss a matter of great interest to Spain, and specifically to Asturias, because it concerns hundreds of thousands of workers. Our community is in an acute process of decline in which, among other factors, de-industrialization and the lack of an industrial policy that would allow to strengthen the sectors that are holy and sign in Asturias, such as steel, zinc, aluminium or shipyards, to quote some of the most relevant. On behalf of the Forum, I have tabled an amendment in which we highlight different aspects that are essential for the recovery and strengthening of our industry, beginning with raising its political rank in the Government by creating a State Secretariat of Industry and SMEs with sufficient specific weight to be able to launch measures that transform the national industry. Other measures that we are proposing concern the maintenance of traditional industrial sectors, the promotion of business associationism to co-ordinate the industrial fabric, the reform of the framework to achieve an adequate cost structure and to ensure the competitiveness of the basic electro-intensive industry with a thorough reform of the electricity pricing system in order to have energy costs similar to those that could be obtained in other markets. Our amendment does not forget the shipyard sector which has undergone a deep crisis as a result of the tax lease, but which has magnificent facilities and workers with an extraordinary professional qualification. Finally, we consider it essential to promote the implementation of measures to develop the Connected Industry Plan 4.0, encouraging the creation and development of enterprises. We close our amendment of amendment by urging the Government to urgently defend before the European Union a new proposal on the future of the Spanish steel industry, which makes clear the rejection of such a draft reform of trade defence instruments and the application of the lesser-law rule. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President. To talk about this initiative, I think it is good to remember very recent data. In April 2017, that is, last month, we saw that 1,600,000 contracts were created. Ninety per cent of these contracts were temporary, and one third of them were part-time. This job focuses primarily on low-value-added activities, hospitality and commerce, and we all know the effect of Easter, the effect of Christmas and the effect of summer. Very few of these jobs were concentrated in industry or technological sectors. Moreover, we see that investment in R & D+i has fallen inexorably for some years now, in particular 9% since 2009, and that the percentage of our GDP is well below the average and, above all, it has fallen in the public sector. In addition, we see that in the General Budgets of the State this year they have also descended in the Ministry of Industry. We understand that this is not the best way to increase employment in industry, so that industry does not lose relative weight in our economy. And, indeed, we agree with the Socialist Party that there is a need for a plan for industry based on innovation, on productive investment, on employment with a strong technological component and on a commitment by renewable energies to replace dirty ones. We need a real industrial policy if we really want to change our economic model, if we want to take advantage of the potential of our university students and if we want to have a future in an increasingly competitive world. We will therefore vote in favour of the Socialist Group's proposal. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u179	Thank you very much, President. I am speaking very briefly. In principle, if I may, I would like to congratulate the Socialist Group on the call and on this initiative, and to the extent that a proposal guaranteeing majority approval by this House can be agreed, it would still be much better. In fact, within the framework of the European Union's Industrial 2020 Strategy, we should all work, also in the whole Spanish State. The Generalitat de Catalunya, under the mandate of the Catalan Parliament itself, has been working in this area for months now. In fact, the Government has virtually closed a national industrial pact with different areas that could also serve as a reference: business competitiveness; the business dimension and financing; industry 4.0 and digitization, and we recognize that some progress has been made in this area; training, which is also basic from our perspective; logistics and energy infrastructure, another key element for Catalan industry; and sustainability and economy. We're going to give them support. We intended to do so in the initial proposal, but much better if this transaction is reached. Now, immediately after approving this motion, it is imperative that we agree on some amendments to the General Budgets of the State that we are dealing with because this without a budgetary reflection that does not exist today will have no credibility whatsoever and here I also call for those basic logistics infrastructures in Catalonia for Catalan industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u181	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. The truth is that, Mrs Blanquer, sometimes I am bewildered because there seems to be some coincidence that this country needs a ministry to lead and plan a process as relevant as we need to make the changes that you require in this motion, and the truth and truth is that the People's Party has just dismembered a Ministry of Industry, we could say clearly. Industrial matter today depends on three major ministries and we also have SEPI, which depends on a quarter, nothing more and nothing less than in the hands of Mr Montoro. It is quite clear that the People's Party is doing this and the partners that accompany it in its budget negotiation, precisely in order not to be able to direct or plan or take on the enormous changes that our country needs in the productive model. I am therefore puzzled because it seems that they will reach an agreement, but it is that the People's Party is doing quite the opposite of what should be done in this country in order to resemble the average of the countries in our environment. Secondly, we have current budgets and the People's Party has just cut the budget on industry and energy; I am also puzzled and I do not understand how they can try to reach an agreement. But let's get to the point. Indeed, our group is presenting a list of amendments because it seems to us to be a very important issue, of course. We want to change the productive model of this country to then play, paint something and give the future to our daughters and children. For that industrial strategy we believe that we must think big and think long-term. German industrial strategies were not implemented within a three-year period as set out in this motion for 2020. I am aware that we have a duty with Europe and that Europe tells us that by 2020 we have to commit or devote 20% of GDP to industrial matters. We are at 16%, but I am also aware that in this baggage and in this journey we have lost and destroyed, thanks to the disastrous management of the predecessors and the PP, about 700,000 industrial posts in our country. So what does our Confederal Group want? Indeed a strategy that designs the industrial future of our country. What does our group want? Defending traditional sectors? Yeah. I have followed his inquiry to the minister with great attention, but they will allow me to say that we are always in common places. The automotive sector is very important, the minister told us, and you coincided. It said: We're going to sell 3 million vehicles in this country. But, Mrs Blanquer, it is that I would like to be like Italy, like France and like Germany that design vehicles. Our country does not design vehicles and there we have a huge problem. So what does our Confederal Group want? Obviously put to work the university, the research centers, the unions, the people who think, the colleges of engineers and engineers and everyone to say and plan what we are going to do. And what do we want? We want to dedicate ourselves to something fundamental, which is to produce and export knowledge. This is the key to the process or revolution in which we are immersed. If we don't, we won't be able to move on. I'm going to give you an example of what Germany says, a very simple thing: We want to make the thing that goes inside the thing to make it work. This is what we would like our country to do. That is, in a practical example, we want to make the sensor of the engine that is inside and that today we do not do. We therefore believe that this initiative is substantially improved. Secondly, there seems to be fear of robotics. Our group wants to advance in robotics. The industrial aspect has changed substantially. It is no longer the same as before, the machine does not help the worker, but the worker helps the machine. Think, for example, of artificial intelligence. For that huge change we have to make a qualitative leap. Or let's think about the surgery, what's already being done. Mrs Blanquer, we do not understand why they do not accept our amendment, which has to do with a substantial element: primary energy sources and renewables. Let's go to a distributed model. We do not understand why they do not accept this amendment. You and the Lords of Citizens are talking all day about self-consumption and abolishing the sun tax, but when we really talk about real things you do not accept the amendments. Not to support an amendment that has to do with the energy that is close and distributed is to continue to support the monopoly of the big electrics that are scamming us in this country. So, honestly, we don't understand them. I do not know if the reason is that they have their bosses sitting on the boards of directors, but I insist that the road is made walking, with the people, and this amendment speaks clearly of changing the model to a distributed system and you do not accept it. Nor do we share what they say about ICO. It is not that we say it, but the specialists, economists and theorists of this country: the ICO does not serve to meet this enormous challenge of industrial change. To be clear, I don't know if they know what it's like to build a ship: a billion. I ask you to speak to the clusters of the private ship. They're not revolutionary subjects. They tell us that they need public investment banks and that these instruments are not worth it. Finally, Madam President, I would like to talk about the instruments that we currently have - the case of Enesa, who is public - and I will give you an example of funding. First, the ministry says that in order to help entrepreneurs they have to have a minimum capital equal to what they are going to ask for. Secondly, the terms of the loan. Euribor in the first tranche plus 3.75 % and in the second tranche 8%. Do you think that with these conditions of ministry funding we are able to undertake the enormous change we have in our country? We don't think so. Finally, that they do not accept what has to do with technological sovereignty seems to us to be quite serious, since we are an absolutely dependent country. Let's learn from Germany. Let's review the 2013 CDU government agreement with the socialists, who said loud and clear that they want to regain technological sovereignty to just do the thing that's inside the thing and make it work. Otherwise, I insist that we continue to be the periphery of the periphery, working for Mrs Merkel. We will vote yes because there are many common things and doing it against it is like saying no to life. Therefore, yes, but we believe it is substantially improveable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u182	Mrs Moralesja Gómez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I am speaking on behalf of the majority group in this House in relation to this motion and I will start at the beginning, so we have already heard it in previous plenary sessions and we continue to listen to it in this one. It repeats itself constantly. It is tiredly repeated that they do not like that the new structure of the Government does not respond to the reality and the consequences that the industrial sector is paying them. I don't know if you are aware, but let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that not by much repeating something that is not true will become true and people will believe you. The ministerial structure that the People's Party Government made in the 10th Legislature already explained it by the minister in this House, and said it was very coherent. Very coherent because one of the fundamental objectives of the economic policy agenda of the People's Party government is to have more competitiveness in our industry, all you are asking for here today. And if there is a sector sensitive to competitiveness, that is that of industry, hence that Industry is well framed in this ministry, since it has a horizontal vision, as you know, and at the end many others depend on it. In my view, the Socialist Group could have chosen - we would all have understood it - not to table any motion, since it is not mandatory, but optional. Nevertheless, we believe that, on the basis of parliamentary practice, they will opt against it. As you know, this parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to this motion in order to be able to reach a consensus with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the other groups in this House and to adopt it. We are working to reach a compromise and we are going to talk a little bit about the points that can be improved in that motion or where we can reach agreements. With regard to the first point of your motion to update the industrial observatories, you know, Your Honor, that this point could be indispensible, as industrial sectoral agendas are currently being carried out in which the starting point is being analysed with the sectors, what objectives are being achieved, where they want to go and what challenges they would have to face in order to achieve it, as well as identifying their growth levers and the specific measures to achieve it. Therefore, Mrs Blanquer, if the problem is that you prefer to call industrial observatories on industrial sectoral agendas, we accept; after all, the nomenclature will not separate us from you. The important thing is that it is already being carried out and is working on it and the various sectors have a forum to discuss, make their contributions and be heard. With regard to the second point of the motion calling on the Government to draw up an industrial strategic plan for the impetus of industry, this parliamentary group makes the following considerations. The General Secretariat of Industry since last parliamentary term is carrying out an active industrial policy that, within the framework of the Agenda for the Strengthening of the Industrial Sector, has developed a series of actions in its own area and, as you know, in coordination with other ministries and public administrations, with the industrial sectors and social partners, to enhance qualified employment, innovation and export. Many of the milestones on the agenda have already been reached at this time, but the strategic framework needs to be extended so that industrial policy can reach 20% of GDP. Nor should we forget that the economic fabric of our country is of small and medium-sized enterprises, so that strategic framework cannot be understood without a strategy of small and medium-sized enterprises that continues to foster entrepreneurship and enterprise creation, giving strong support to their competitiveness, innovation and digitalisation. On the third point, you are talking about a number of issues that are in line with the current strategy of the Government, but this parliamentary group wants to make some considerations on the issues that are covered in the motion. The point on the costs of energy supply to facilitate the transition to a sustainable model is assessed in the sense that the comprehensive strategy for boosting industry will have to include measures that continue to promote access to affordable energy supply, reduce our energy dependence on the outside, contribute to progress in meeting sustainability objectives and act effectively against climate change. The second issue we want to discuss with you is that of R & D+i resources, until we achieve a public-private joint investment of 3% of GDP. It should be noted that the consensus of all actors in the Spanish Science, Technology and Innovation Strategy sets a target of 2% by 2020. Let us be realistic, ladies and gentlemen, because we come from 1.22% now. We all know that private investment at the moment is 5052 %. We would have to reach 66% in private investment to reach 3%. Let us therefore set ourselves real goals. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, the only thing I ask you to do is put your feet on the ground. You guys were talking about 6%. Don't be demagogues. They always say they don't want to be Europe's waitresses, but they want to be Europe's researchers. We might agree, although I don't know what they have against the waiters. [[Protests]] Here waiters serve us every day and put us coffees when we are working and it is a job as worthy as that of researchers, as that of doctors or primary teachers. [[Applauds.-Protests]] In the People's Party we want there to be work for everyone. That's what you have to work on and not do elitism between one thing and another. What I wanted to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, is that you put your feet on the ground and work with real things. Let's put real goals that can be met. Unachievable objectives are not objective. All I have to do is thank him and keep working to get that transactional and, with it, improve our industrial sector. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u184	At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u185	Good morning, egun on. Industrial policy? Has industrial policy worked so far? How can we define effective policies for the future and how can we explain them so that they have social support? I think we should start by answering those three questions in order to really talk about industrial policy. In addition, the Socialist Group brings us a motion to push it forward, which is fine, but if there is no industrial policy in Spain, it is because no government has pushed it sufficiently. Just remember that some even said that the best industrial policy was the one that did not exist. Therefore, the absence of an industrial policy strategy is not surprising. Changes in population, technology and institutions are the forces that induce changes in the economy and society. The world, it is true, has become global and economic activities change at great speed their processes, their products and their location in space, so companies and people have to adapt quickly to the new reality. Sustainable growth is not conceivable without the productive transformation of the economy. Globalization, technological and logistical development, unlimited access to information, different financing alternatives are circumstances that, among others, have led to a great complexity of economic activity. Therefore, public policies and the growth based on them should take into account the new scenario if they aspire to be efficient and effective. The growth and strengthening of industry not only benefits companies in the sector but also has a multiplier effect because they create growth in the economy as a whole. That is why the industrial policy carried out by the institutions must be a long-term commitment and must also go hand in hand with innovation policies. Industrial policy aims to increase the competitiveness of industry so that it can maintain its role as a driver of sustainable growth and employment in a country or region. Thus, the development of industrial policies must create the right ecosystem in their environment for companies to evolve and generate wealth. As I said, it is about fostering a solid industrial base and this is not achieved overnight, there is no magic pocima. What we see in this motion is that we are faced with a series of scattered measures which affect various sectors and which we can all accept, but which do not seem to be covered by any strategy and will therefore hardly contribute to that solid basis of which we have spoken. We say this because it must be borne in mind that any economic activity and productive transformation is conditioned by the territory in which it takes place and therefore it is important to know it well, both for the strategies and policies that are designed at higher levels but that affect that territory and for the possible strategies or actions that from the same territorial level are intended to be implemented. Industrial policy actions must foster collaboration between the Government and the private sector to develop sectors with the greatest impact on economic growth, sectors with the highest added value, sectors in which global leadership can be achieved, build on areas of competitive advantage and also help new sectors to flourish. A successful industrial policy, in short, requires an analysis of the socio-economic reality of the territory, of its most direct environment and also of the international reality and even of each industrial sector, since each evolves in a different way, has its own characteristics and key factors of competitiveness. Thus, for example, the machine-tool sector is not the same as that of the car or the energy sector, in which we understand that the shared key must be knowledge infrastructures. To bet really on a country's industry requires that this bet really be prioritized. To believe that industry is the best machine for giving prosperity and improving equality in a territory implies establishing the fundamental pillars for building a future industry and, from here on, developing concrete measures and objectives. I do not share some of the things that the spokesman for Podemos has said, because, despite all the difficulties that exist, in Euskadi we do have a solid industrial policy, a determined and effective commitment to industrial policy. The measures proposed in this motion are isolated measures that do not have support in an environmental analysis. We do not believe that they will be very efficient or effective in promoting a sound industrial policy, but understanding that they may be part of industrial policy as soon as a serious analysis of the economic and social environment is addressed and a strategy is put in place to boost industry, we will vote in favour of the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Capdevila i Esteve, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the floor during the position-setting shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u187	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mrs Blanquer, your motion must be approved. I say this because it's going to be the only positive thing that's going to hear me. It collects the main aspects of what would be the letter to the Magi that any industrialist would like to write, if his Eastern Majesties were to convince the Government to push even if it were only the hollowest of the measures proposed, but if they do not fill themselves with how, when and with what resources they will be implemented they will not cease to be a waste of desideratums. Although they forget the purported federalist vocation of the proposing formation and that the competencies are shared with the autonomy, we do not forget that the PSOE is the author of the wildest deindustrialization process in Spain. Your model isn't ours. Its model is centralist, of large industrial corporations away from their production centers. We are by industrialists who go down to the factory - they say so, go down to the factory - on a ladder that should not have many more steps than this rostrum and you obviously don't. You do not have clear ideas, not even on an issue of vital industrial importance such as the Mediterranean axis, and I fear that we will have to see whether or not your primary ones solve it and how. As a member of the Baix Llobregat, a region of strong industrial tradition in Catalonia, I feel inclined to customize my intervention a little bit. I still have some industrial friend, specifically one who calls himself the last Mohican. Vicenç Pedret is a manufacturer of perfume glass containers and has survived the crisis; for now, he says. Its plant is one of the sixteen remaining in all of Spain of the twenty-seven that existed before 2007. I asked him to help me defend my vote and, instead of sending me a note, he took me to visit the industrial estate of La Llagosta, where they still rent almost half of the industrial ships; the same case is that of L'Hospitalet and could continue with examples of many estates. Beyond the ghost polygon walk, I was shown by the report by the business community, which shows that industrial activity in Catalonia has fallen by EUR 14 billion, 37%, during the economic crisis, even though it still accounts for 19% of state GDP. This is the fault of the crisis, yes, but it is also the fault of the absence of an efficient industrial policy, of a policy not involved with the territorial model, when not subjected to the already repeated mantra that the best industrial policy is the one that does not exist. Spanish industrial policy is also an argument for independence, coupled with the finding that in the debate about the 'inventing them' Ortega was defeated by Unamuno for a score. This is very serious, you don't have to be a lynx to understand that, by chance, these microphones generate more wealth, more skilled jobs, more taxes where they are manufactured than where they matter. We can already create all the observatories, promote all R & D and develop all the strategic programmes we want, things are simpler: as long as industrial energy is one of the most expensive in Europe we will go from bad to worse. How about we start there? I return to the example of the microphone and return to my region. PVC, plastic, that of this microphone, may have been manufactured in Belgium, Italy or Inovyn de Martorell; the large component of the plastic at cost is electricity. The inability of the Government of Spain to provide competitive electricity prices is putting the main argument for the plastic in this microphone to stop being manufactured in Martorell. Let us hope that we do not have to regret that as many good wishes as those expressed by your motion today are late. My brief experience as a Member does not allow me to be too optimistic. To topics as concrete, as vital as that of the single European patent, which you know, or the proposal for a seasonal electric contract for temporary industries, that would help real SMEs in the real market, even being approved by the majority of this House, the government torpón, cabizba, obsessed and prisoner of its own archadia ignores them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u188	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago I was listening to these words in this very rostrum: ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to grow in order to be able to redistribute, sustainable and sustained growth over time, capable of generating quality employment, capable of generating income that can sustain our welfare state. This sentence could have been pronounced by any deputy of the popular bench, the socialist bench or even ours, Citizens. The truth is that I do not imagine it being said by the Podemos Group, because they are thinking of redistributing rather than growing and, truth, without growth what will be distributed. In my land we say nothing but nothing. Mrs Blanquer, this sentence I mentioned at the beginning of my speech was the beginning of yours before Minister Luis de Guindos on 5 April when he presented the urgent inquiry. Frankly, I am amazed, because when they have the power to draw laws in those communities where they govern they do not do so, and, moreover, how much they have the possibility of adopting State General Budgets with measures beneficial to industry they do not do so either. With regard to your motion, Mrs Blanquer, in the first paragraphs I see that, once again, they are working to increase these political interferences on technical criteria. Citizens are always thinking of depoliticizing and eliminating duplication, red tape and administrative barriers. In the third paragraph, we are presented with a series of measures that coincide with those we signed in the government pact in the last legislature: the state energy pact, facilitating the energy transition, state transport infrastructure plans, increasing resources in research and development and, of course, better sources of funding. This same Citizens transferred him to the investiture agreement with the People's Party and, in addition, placed him in those orange policies that have their budgetary reflection. The 2017 General State Budgets, which you also reject, have important measures that Citizens have negotiated. A change in direction, a new productive model in which we increase the R & D budget, by 4% in the case of civil R & D; in addition, there are items in conversion and reindustrialisation in which its budget rises to 3.4%, 875 million euros more. For example, the budget for digital transformation activities in industry 4.0 rises by 2.5% to 100 million. Promotion and coordination of scientific and technical research rises by 110 %. In addition, they include these five hundred million for activities related to the Cervera Technology Transfer Network, which will assist SMEs and create patents and industrial property in collaboration with universities and the private sector. However, Mrs Blanquer, when I look at you I see your Valencian community, in which you rule and, as a Valencian, it hurts me because you waste public resources, which are scarce and you know it. I can give you some examples. I brought some press clippings. Its new Valencian Innovation Agency is just another duplicity and is also paralysed by bureaucracy and political interference with its Compromís partners. [[Shows a press clipping]] They have created the Valencian Institute of Business Competitiveness, the Ivace, but it turns out that in 2016 it ended with 60% of the budget unexecuted and this was going to help the productive fabric. [[Show another press clipping]] I really don't get it, Mrs. Blanquer. [[Applauds]] Frankly, I am missing out on your motion, proposals to talk about dual vocational training, productive infrastructure, how to improve the dimension of SMEs, about depoliticisation of regulatory bodies, but, above all, Mrs Blanquer, I am missing the courage of the PSOE to move away from this empowerment and move on to negotiate with the rest of the parliamentary groups and be able to improve the industry in Spain. I'm done, Madam President. In short, Mrs Blanquer, our companies do not want any more aid and subsidies, what they really want is for the public authorities not to put obstacles or obstacles to them, what they want is not to put 17 regulations on them, what they really want is a lever, a tool and not obstacles. Of course, Citizens will support this motion, and you will vote against these general budgets that benefit industry, but let me tell you that the most important thing, Mrs Blanquer, is not to approve this motion, the most important thing is that each and every one of the measures that you have included in this motion be carried out by those governments that you have in those autonomous communities, including, of course, yours and mine. Preach with the example. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u190	I ask Mrs Blanquer whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u191	We are working on a compromise proposal, as I said in my speech, which knows all the groups in the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u192	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, on the development and effective implementation of Law 45/2007 of 13 December 2007 on sustainable development of the rural environment. [[File number 173/000028]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u193	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from the questioning of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the development and effective implementation of Law 45/2007 of 13 December, on sustainable development of the rural environment. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Guijarro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u194	Thank you very much, Madam President. A few weeks ago we had here in this House a debate on the question presented by our Confederal Parliamentary Group on the evolution of the Rural Development Act of 2007, which was approved by the Government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero. [[The Lord]] At that time, we had a dialogue with the Minister, Mrs García Tejerina, and I remember, despite the fact that it has been several weeks, that we are left with two somewhat embarrassing elements, so I would like to take advantage of the start of this intervention to try to clarify them. We had a small dispute between the Minister and myself over certain figures, but the weeks of analysis of the State's General Budgets have already passed, some figures have been revealed on a meridian basis and what we observe is that, despite what the Minister argued in the previous plenary, there is a further reduction of 3.16 million in relation to the 2016 budgets in relation to rural development, that is, a loss of weight in the whole of the State's General Budgets. The government has been bragging about these budgets and has already used the collection of 'the most social in history' on several occasions, but I would like to remind you that as far as rural development is concerned, these are the lowest budgets in recent history. I would like to try to clarify a second question, and in some way criticise the Minister's approach at the time. I want to try to undo the mischief, to undo the confusion that the minister apparently has between the primary sector and the rural world, which is not the same. It is not the same primary sector that the rural world and until the Government understands this we cannot avoid the systematic depopulation to which the Spanish people have been condemned for a long time. We can say that the ministry has defended certain actors of the agrarian world, no one can deny it; now, small and medium-sized farms, zero, and of course, other sectors of the rural world, zero. We are going to go into budgetary matters, which is at the end of the day, because, as you know, we can talk about many laws, many initiatives and many wills, but until the ugly metal, the money, the budgets do not really know the degree of commitment of each of the groups. The Government has announced an increase of 179 million over other budgets. This number has a dark trick. Why? Because in fact it was EUR 206 million that went through the second pillar of rural development, i.e. European funds. Therefore, when we talk about 179 million, what is actually happening, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is a new cut; a new cut of almost 30 million. The State's contribution to rural development budgets is therefore only 12% for this year 2017, i.e. 4% compared to 2016, which was already poor. Well, nothing, we're still on this climb to hell. However, the most serious thing is that the planned allocation for transfers to the autonomous communities, which, as you know, should co-finance rural development programmes, is reduced by 16.5 million, that is, 13.8 % below the budget for 2016, the lowest of the contributions since 2012. This was the manifest commitment shown to us by the Minister in her last speech. Let us talk about the three problems which, in our view, the budgets for rural development contain. Firstly, what we have always been criticising, that is, the government is leaving office because the government does not govern, the government does nothing but manage the aid coming from the European Union, and that is where the executive activity ends. There is also a second problem that has to do with the dispersion, atomization and lack of a plan of prioritization of measures and actions and, of course, the main problem of the entire legislature and of all the general budgets of the State in recent years: cuts, cuts and more cuts. The battery of measures for agricultural and vocational training is reduced by EUR 351, i.e. the general focus to which we were accustomed. Funding for operational groups is also falling. With regard to rural development-oriented infrastructure, we also have a new fall: investment in rural roads, which are essential for articulating Spanish agriculture, is down by 4 million. The network of natural roads and small interpretive works, which are essential in trying to relaunch rural tourism and which could in some way contribute to the economic improvement of these areas, is reduced by 1.6 million. For the promotion of actions aimed at rural women - remember, ladies and gentlemen, how we were talking about the female profile of rural poverty in Spain in recent years - well, we already had a small share in 2016, half a million euros, it seems that the government has considered it an excess and has only had to lower this amount to 400 000, that is, from bad to worse. With regard to the improvement of the viability of farms, one of the perhaps most important actions to help young people in this environment, this programme is currently endowed with 3.7 million, that is to say, a cut of EUR 871,000; here we are. And the third major problem is that there is a budget under-execution, and this has already been denounced here repeatedly. Agrarian training has not been implemented; out of the 19.6 budgeted rural roads, 9.5 have been implemented. That is, some really ridiculous amounts and figures. Our parliamentary group has promoted a number of measures in the motion before you, which we hope you can support. And since I am running out of time and I am not going to be able to disburse these measures, I would like to make an appeal, above all, to Citizens and PSOE, which I understand are going to join in this initiative - because, I am already announcing, our parliamentary group will accept the proposal made by Citizens in this regard - so that, please, you may take a look at the partial amendments that we have tabled precisely for rural development, because the key is there, ladies and gentlemen, in the State General Budgets. That is why we have asked for a budget of 400 000 euros for the promotion of associationism...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u195	Mr. Guijarro, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u196	I'm just finishing up, Mr. President. We have also called for EUR 15 million to promote the implementation of sustainable rural development plans, especially in those areas marked as more unequal and, as I say to you, we believe that we are in a position to agree with Citizens on this amendment, not so with Foro Asturias, whose proposal seems to us to misrepresent our proposal in some way. However, if Forum brought here a proposal on the rural world, we would not be reluctant to discuss and eventually support some of its approaches. And, of course, we cannot support the amendment by the Group of the European People's Party, because it goes back to desideratums and declarations, but there is no real budgetary commitment. This looks like a hair removal. They're talking about your...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u197	Mr. Guijarro, you have to come to an end.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u198	Ten seconds, President. They say that their proposal represents a technical improvement, and that is where the key is, ladies and gentlemen, where it is not a technical problem, it is a problem of political will, and that is the political will that we are asking you not to leave the Rural Development Act in the wet role it is currently in. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. In defence of the amendments put forward by its groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes in the first place, which will also adopt a position at this time. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. The initiative advocated by Mr Guijarro García gives us an opportunity to talk about the rural environment, which in the opinion of Forum has been moving away from the challenges that have arisen in the international community environment and that have taken advantage of other countries in our environment. To face this situation it is essential to return to the countryside its strategic character, vital for the autonomy and food sovereignty of Spain, and to stop using it as a constant currency of exchange between Spain and the European Union vis-à-vis third countries, an issue that always becomes a notorious injury to this key national sector. We need to tackle rural depopulation and the demographic problem, which in the case of Asturias are very important issues, and hence we support the national strategy in the face of the demographic challenge. In fact, the Government has finally placed this issue on the political agenda, as it is already on the parliamentary agenda. It contrasts this need with the content of this motion which hardly mentions this matter; it excludes it from the six points on which there is a great deal of demand for reports and data, but little political proposal for the Government to apply itself in operational decisions that respond to regaining the great importance of livestock and agriculture in the primary sector. With our nine-point amendment - which the US spokesman We can announce we reject - we want to put forward rural development measures aimed at improving their competitiveness and social revitalization, encouraging the improvement of the standard of living of the inhabitants in rural areas. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u201	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u202	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a representative of the peoples of Castellón, let me remind you that our peoples are becoming more and more empty every day. The red strip of rural areas to be revitalized in Castellón is very marked, and this is not random, it is a consequence of not applying the laws that protect the rural environment. In addition, autonomous governments have much to say in these cases and unfunded politics is a toast to the sun. That is why - let's go back to this - the General Budgets of the State for the regions of Castellón is invested below the average: 135 euros per capita while the depopulation forces to close schools, emigrate to the cities or make more than an hour's journey to the hospital. All for lack of funding. It invests 135 euros per capita, that is, 50 euros less than the state average and up to a quarter of what is invested in other territories. This is the policy of the People's Party: contempt and ill-treatment for the people of Castellón. It is not, as Minister De la Serna said yesterday, about a marketing of votes; it is about social justice, and I tell you from here. Compromís will defend and work to improve the lives of Valencians and Valencians, but never at the expense of trading with our rights. Your blackmail policies, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we do not like them and in this game Compromís is not going to be. So, Mr De la Serna, take note: Compromís does what he has to do: defend the social dignity of the peoples of Castellón, of the Valencians and the Valencians and of the Valencia Country. Here we come to claim what is right and, in the Generalitat, we make policies for people. Do the same, leave the market, leave the partisan interests and strive to govern for the people and the most needy peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u203	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Postius Terrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, we share with the group presenting this proposal the concern to achieve a balanced development of our rural areas with regard to the urban environment. Citizens, regardless of their place of residence or the environment in which they work, must have equal rights and opportunities. It is something I imagine we all agree on, however, one thing is theory and another is practice, and it is clear that many of our fellow citizens living in rural areas have notable differences in access to services that should be guaranteed equally for everyone. Law 45/2007, for the Sustainable Development of the Rural Environment, was a great bet that started from the recognition of a problem: that the rural environment showed a negative difference with respect to the urban environment that needed to be corrected. However, ten years later, and admitting that some progress has been made, this differential remains, and we therefore consider the motion to be timely. It is necessary to make a precise diagnosis of the difficulties that the implementation of the law is having, to evaluate its results and to bravely face the outstanding challenges. However, in order to drive these policies decisively, it is essential to have economic resources and, in this regard, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not devote the resources necessary to meet the objectives that we impose ourselves with the law, there will be no use in this debate or in the future. We shall therefore vote in favour of the proposal before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u205	Thank you very much, Mr Postius. Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe that all the parliamentary groups in this House consider the rural world to be of vital importance to our country. We are all clear that it is important to consolidate the rural world, we are all clear that it is essential to improve the quality of life of the inhabitants of the rural world, but we are all very clear that the important thing is to guarantee them a future, a real and profitable future. The problem we find when we start talking about how we will decide, and here, Mr Guijarro, I have to say that the motion that your group has put forward seems to me to be a very well-reasoned request for the repeated breaches that both the People's Party and the Socialist Party have had with this law, that is to say, even themselves, that they did not comply with it, so it is reasonable. And as my colleague Patricia Reyes said - who is not here now - ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, I am very pleased that you are going down to the parliamentary arena, that you are leaving behind shows and stories and that we are starting to work for something important, because this problem, ladies and gentlemen, is a national problem, it is a very serious problem. You were right, Mr Guijarro, it is a problem of political will. We all have to work together on this issue, we all have to reach a consensus because we all have a final goal, all of us, which is to eliminate the discrimination that the rural sector currently has in this country against the urban sector, and we have to do that among all of us. [[Applauds]] We talk about Law 45/2007 and in Citizens we think it is more an agrarian law than a rural one, but it has quite a consensus of all the collectives. I believe, Mr Guijarro - you know - that there must be a new debate. We must have a debate in which we can solve the problems arising in the area of governance, in terms of the complexity of the operation and from where territorial diagnoses are updated; a debate in which entities and actors representing the rural environment are actively involved; a debate from which we get new definitions of territorial strategies, updated and adapted to today's reality, so that, rather than regaining expectations, we give answers and implement the law. It is not a question of starting from scratch, as you and I talked about yesterday, it is a question of reaching a broad consensus between the Government and the autonomous communities so that this is a basic and fundamental law and that the total economic funds can cover the objectives envisaged. That is where I am going to give you a nuance - forgive me - that funding from the European Community is not a fall to hell, if we did not have the European Community, and with this government we would have nothing, so let us thank the European Community for funding us. Complexity, as you well know, is the most defining feature of the rural environment. Until the last Conference of Presidents, depopulation has not been seen as a problem at the national level and, although the principle of territorial cohesion has continued to be violated, by which the same opportunities must be offered to both rural and urban inhabitants, this has not happened. In Citizens we have drawn up a series of proposals envisaged in a comprehensive programme aimed at revitalizing the rural world; we call it the programme for territorial development because we want to make it complete: first, to establish measures that favour the fixing of the existing population and attract new inhabitants, for which we must achieve full connectivity in rural areas that allows their citizens and businesses the same opportunities for communication as in urban areas. - Mr. Moyá told me this morning that he was getting two megas in his house, and with that it is impossible that I can work and that I can have connectivity. Thus, we must also establish a new system of on-demand transport so that people in rural areas can overcome their isolation, especially for the elderly. Two, implement specific development plans for the integration of women and young people into activities within the rural world, without forgetting to promote leisure and culture and, of course, paying special attention to such important issues as health, education and social services. Three, the design and implementation of training for the rural environment, able to meet an increasingly demanding demand and which is more oriented towards quality and improvement of activity through training. In the area of taxation, we want to establish incentives to encourage companies to be located in rural municipalities; these companies that consolidate and generate employment will have to have tax breaks, IRPF, reduced VAT and reduced transmission tax. Programmes should be designed and developed to support the creation of multi-services and, above all, to encourage the creation of enterprises related to the use of new methodologies. I have just been presented with an APP in which producers can be connected to consumers, and that is what we need to encourage, that is what needs to be done. And, of course, develop rural gastronomic tourism projects that will improve our country's wide range of offers. I'm done, Mr. President. In Citizens we believe in the development potential of rural territory in all its areas, a development that will generate new economic opportunities and will lead our rural environment to a necessary revitalization. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing is that we all work together to make action plans that establish an equalization of the rural world against the urban environment, because, as long as there is no equality, the imbalance will be maintained and the rural world will continue to be fled. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u207	Thank you, Mr. Garaulet. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carreño Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u208	Mr Guijarro, what sense does it have, as you are asking here today, to compromise hundreds and hundreds of billions, if you are not clear where you are going to be and, moreover, confuse the concepts and do not know what your priorities are? Look, we have to manage better with less, and those on the left don't know that. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems very good to me that Mr de Podemos raises the Law on Sustainable Rural Development. But, look, every time the Socialist Party wanted a minute of glory and a space in the media, it proposed a law or a master phrase, and then it turned out that that law had problems, and I can list some of them. That is what has happened with the Law on Sustainable Rural Development, where the People's Parliamentary Group shared the objectives of this Law. But, from the very beginning, he realized that he had competition problems, technical problems, not an example of participation, and less budget, because this law was born without funds and its application was embodied in a complex system of decision-making, ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, the reality is that the People's Parliamentary Group was found in 2012, five years after the adoption of the law, with which only one autonomous community had signed an agreement, zone plans in only six, and an execution of 20 million euros a year, when what the law provided for were 500 million euros. That is what the left did for rural development in those five years of socialist government with law enforcement. It is very good that you remember the Zapatero stage and the stage of left-wing governments in this country, so that we do not forget how we have suffered the Spaniards and how they leave Spain when they rule. But as that phrase so well known said: Always leaves the fortune an open door in the misfortunes to remedy them. I will now tell you what the People's Party Government has done in its five years of government. This government is doing more than EUR 47 billion for Spain for rural areas, in a context of reducing the Community budget. This government, with its measures, has given the sector tools to grow, to promote individual and entrepreneurial initiative of producers, which are decisive in rural development; and has managed to increase exports today by almost 16%; to achieve a record final agricultural production of €46,807,000; and to achieve a record agricultural income of €30,781,000. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no better evaluation report as you ask in your motion than that. Most importantly, the Government's new commitments. That is why the Commissioner has launched the demographic challenge, and new strategies to promote generational relief in agriculture and the imposition of innovation on our farms. This government demonstrates in the General State Budgets for 2017 its commitment to the rural environment, with a 17% increase in rural development compared to the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, your policies are detrimental to the interests of farmers and farmers, to the food industry and, therefore, to the rural environment. Look, the current globalization process presents itself as an opportunity and a challenge, which rural areas are taking advantage of to be present in this global context with new forms of innovation and economic, social, cultural and environmental participation. That global market in which you do not believe, but which is giving more presence and opportunities to thousands of entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and people who, with their agricultural activity, generate wealth in rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen, to say that supporting the rural environment is not to support agriculture, as the representatives of Podemos have said, confirms the enormous political disorientation that you have. Do you know why people recognize that the governments of the People's Party, as you do, are the ones that best defend the interests of our camp? Because they know that most of the time the only and main alternative to employment is that of agriculture and the agri-food sector, and they know this because they have always shown special awareness and concern for the rural environment and because they also defend them here in Spain and before the Community institutions which, to a large extent, are where rural development policies are decided. Finally, in the People's Group we are very proud of the work being done by this Government, the work of our farmers and farmers and the enormous potential of the agri-food sector. Today it is recognized that the activity of the agri-food sector has been one of the support to emerge from the crisis in which Spain has been immersed in recent years, by the way, with left-wing policies. Let us therefore continue to work because we have to work together to ensure that the sector remains a global benchmark. My group has tabled an amendment with the commitment to work towards the collaboration of all on a question on which the future of the Spanish population depends. The important thing is that we can all contribute to creating an attractive rural environment that provides a good quality of life and creates new opportunities for all and, above all, for young people and women. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Carreño. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor on a position-setting basis by the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. I speak from the seat very briefly. On behalf of my group, with regard to the proposal that We can make and the objective that it has, I understand the response that some have given, but at the end of the day I agree that for many parties agriculture is a vertebrating element of the state that vertebrates beyond what is agricultural activity and generates awareness of the state, because, if not, so much interest in some issues creates quite a concern for me. The programme arising from Royal Decree 752/2010 has never been active, since in practice rural development has been articulated in the State through the RDPs of each Autonomous Community with funding from the European Union's CAP and with funding from the Autonomous Communities themselves and a small part of the General Administration of the State, except in Euskadi and Navarre. In essence, rural development is one of the few competing issues in agricultural matters, in which the ministry has largely been subsidiary with the autonomous communities, enabling the regeneration of the so-called second pillar. All autonomous communities have theoretically full agrarian competence, but in practice the Mapma assumes a very large percentage of funding in all agrarian areas. The law that emerged in Zapatero's time did not like us from the very beginning; we said so and did not cooperate in the participation because we considered that it had a guiding principle that, in our opinion, invaded our competences in this matter. It was a supercomplex, ambitious law with very complicated and difficult to coordinate governance that is formulated in some way in parallel to the second pillar of the CAP, according to the decree to supplement it. This law is very direct, in the sense that it marks strategies, priorities, areas of action, actions, etc. That is, it marks where they all have to go at once and together, obviating the areas of competition that each autonomous community has or, at least, that we in Euskadi have. It omits the capacity that each one can have to make his strategies, but also to make his diagnoses and to mark his own lines of action, so it invaded the competences that the autonomous communities have in the field of agriculture and rural development. We are not opposed to strengthening rural development policies, but we believe that they would be made more effective and cost-effective by the European Commission, integrating rural development into the European Union's cohesion policy or, at least, with the complementarity of the EAFRD and the EAFRD. We are therefore not voting in favour of this proposal, as we believe that the activation of this law does not in any way enhance the capacity of the Autonomous Communities to exercise their own rural development policies.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u211	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President. What agricultural model is being defended today, ladies and gentlemen, here? In the interpellation of the last session I was drawn to the attention that, in the light of the evidence of the 37% decrease in agricultural income in recent years, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Environment responded with the argument of the increase in agricultural exports and the greater economic weight of agricultural activity in the economy as a whole. That is how I understood that things are going well and that there is a recovery in the agricultural sector. The bound question is: Which agricultural sector exactly does it refer to? In fact, his intervention gave us the clue. During these years we have been witnessing a paradigm shift that has favored the interests of large estates and corporations to the detriment of the model proposed in 2007 for sustainable rural development. I will explain myself: ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an example that illustrates very well what has been happening and continues to happen now. A municipality near Lleida, where I come from, had the illusion that the expansion of irrigation would activate its economy and attract young people to invest. In the end, after a few years a large company buys all the land and brings to carry out the work a bus with people of Lleida, so there is an internal relocation of the activity. Finally, the aging population sells their land. This is really the basic problem we have. It is clear that you have a model, it is very clear: to lower your view of the liberal in favour of the privatization and commercialisation of the rural environment. And in what way? Applying a strategy of deregulation that ends up favoring the interests of the big estates - I repeat - and the big corporations. It's as simple as that, and if we don't understand it, we won't really understand what we're talking about. How, if not the deployment of the reforms that have been promoted, which have, for example, led to deregulation and unprotection of the rural environment, thus favouring processes of privatization of natural resources? The reform of the Montes Act leaves open the possibility of building on burning grounds, despite not having passed the thirty years established in Law 43/2003, which can lead us to speculate with the environment, and removes the obligation that private mountains and uncategorized publics have management plans. With its entry into the government in the last legislature, the People's Party brings a new element through the reform of the Waters Act: the legalization of free markets for concessional rights in public waters. It means opening the door to the privatization of a public good in the hands not of the rural communities, but of the companies that speculate with these concessional canons. I could talk about many other actions that do not exactly favour the interests of the rural environment, such as that the distribution model of the CAP continues to benefit large-scale owners rather than the active farmer. There is also the application of the sun tax, which has ruined families and investors who have invested in renewable energy or the reform of the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism, which modifies the retributive system of energy production with renewable sources or generation of waste and which ends up endangering the viability of purine treatment plants, seriously affecting the pig sector, or the excessive valuation of the cadastral value of rustic constructions, made on the basis of urban presentation. These are some examples and I could extend much more. Forgive me, but you start from a conception of the rural environment understood as a virgin space, demographically deserted and therefore prepared to be exploited. I do a caricature, but I do. Regrettably, this view goes into flagrant contradiction with the model intended by Law 45/2007 on Sustainable Rural Development. The depopulation of the rural environment is not only an economic challenge, but mainly affects social cohesion and territorial balance. Obviously, it is a much more organic and complex concept than the purely economic one. In this sense, the model proposed by the law has the great virtue in addition to having the territory itself in decision-making. Indeed, we believe that one of the main challenges in the implementation of this law must be the empowerment of rural society and sectoral organizations in decision-making. This is the key. In this regard, some of the sustainable rural development policies implemented by the Autonomous Communities go this way, as we recall that they are competent in rural development and land management. That is why we support this motion to try to reverse the current model and to bet on a model of sustainable rural development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u213	Thank you, Mr. Eritja. For the Socialist Group, Mr Lamuà Estañol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u214	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain 20% of the population lives in rural areas which occupy 90% of our total territory and generate 1.2 million jobs. We have a rural world, therefore, with great potential. Even so, the unstoppable advance of the ageing of the population in the rural environment throughout the State convinced us of the need to help set the population in rural environments and prevent the desertification of our rural environment. For this reason, the Socialist Party drafted Law 45/2007 for the Sustainable Development of the Rural Environment. It is a complex law that we must bring up to date, but it has been and is a key element in ensuring equal opportunities, and it has maintained that the provenance, whatever it may be, makes it possible to have a basis of justice. In that sense, we cannot forget that some communities have more obstacles than all of us already have. Women or young people don't have it easy. This law gave justice to the rural environment and provided opportunities for its people. The PP never liked that law. However, what they supposedly disliked in four years of absolute majority did not change even a coma. They simply staged - they continue to do so - their desire towards the rural environment. How? Leaving the law without budget, its usual modus operandi. It is not necessary to extend much in that this way of proceeding avoids democratic debate and de facto nullifies a good law. Should we work the law again to catch up? Sure. Is the law necessary? Absolutely. Do we have to analyze how it has evolved and how we can improve? Yes, let's do it, but first of all - that's why we bet on the Socialist Parliamentary Group - we activate the Law for the Sustainable Development of the Rural Environment. I do not think it is necessary to stress that the rural environment is a dynamic space that creates wealth. The rural environment therefore deserves a radical shift in state policies and a clear stake for its people. That the PP gives the same rural environment as Law 45/2007, and has been blacked out in the current budget, as Mr Guijarro explained earlier. It is true that the rural development programme is apparently the only one that increases, but it does so with one exception: it does so on account of the 206 million coming from the rural development pillar of the CAP; European funds, not from the ministry. Moreover, the PP makes so many cuts in rural activities that, despite this contribution of more than 200 million Europeans, it remains in a total of 179 million. Make all of you the sums and the subtractions. In addition, the overall figures indicate that EUR 1213 million is allocated to rural areas, but 1176 are of European origin, so the figure of EUR 37 million is the annual concrete commitment of the PP Government for rural areas - 37 out of 1213-. Seeing the rural world as a hunting scene of La Escopeta Nacional is thus summarized, 37 out of 1213, 3% of the total investment. 97% of the rural environment in Spain receives support only thanks to Europe. It is therefore necessary to change the point of view. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party Government, the rural environment is not a burden, but an opportunity. Europe understands this, then add to this belief. Immediately leave the cuts carried out in agricultural vocational training or in the promotion of actions for women in rural areas, the cuts to the most vulnerable groups. In rural areas, the PP not only forgets them, but condemns them to have fewer opportunities. And in the end - and it has also been said - rural or urban, what our citizens need are opportunities. How are they going to get opportunities if they run a lousy 22 000 euros on training grants? Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, Mr Guijarro, it is clear that our vote will be favourable because among some who come to tell us that they are already leaving here and give them all the same but return every Monday; others who continue to come on Mondays without blushing because they are corrupt to the eyebrows; those of Citizens who sometimes do not know well what they have ended up coming to this room, when you get serious and stop trying to have a retuit more than Mr Gabriel Rufián, it turns out that it is possible to improve concrete points in the lives of our citizens and our peoples. [[Laughs from some Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]] The rural environment needs it and above all this law - with socialist stamp - gives real opportunities to the rural environment and deserves to be activated. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u215	Thank you very much, Mr Lamuà. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Guijarro García whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u216	Thank you, President. We accept the Citizens' amendment, not the other two.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-10-CD170510.u217	All right, thank you very much. We take note for the purpose of voting. After the debate on the items on this morning's agenda, the meeting was suspended. It was two and five minutes in the afternoon.
