ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Hernando Vera, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, on 26 May 2003 the 62 Spanish soldiers returning from a mission to Afghanistan lost their lives by crashing the plane they were travelling on, a plane that should never have taken off. The cluster of irregularities around that flight makes it unfair for us to talk about an accident because an accident sounds inevitable and that disaster could be avoided. Many were the voices that stood up talking about the bad condition of the apparatuses. Even the military confessed to their families that they were more afraid of those flights than to their missions in Afghanistan. Unfortunately, no one listened to them and they lost their lives doing their duty because others did not do theirs. One of the most embarrassing events in our recent history followed the disaster, and it was that a Government of which you were a party was in a hurry to resolve the matter and the identification process was a fraud, and families waiting for recognition, waiting for truth and justice, received contempt and, in some cases, threats. The most responsible for all this was the then Minister of Defence, Mr Trillo, someone who has neither withdrawn nor apologized for so much ignominy since then, someone who must have disappeared from Spanish political life, and to whom his Government has appointed an ambassador, and someone who has recently demonstrated to us his moral chastisement by saying that he will return to the Council of State. But they are not facts of the past, fourteen years have passed and the families of the victims have had to fight hard for justice and truth, and they are doing so. The final proof of this truth is the opinion of the Council of State, which must become a just and not a scarring resolution of the Ministry of Defence. In the face of the evidence, your minister, the minister of defense, has asked for forgiveness. Now you are missing, Mr President of the Government, who finally received the victims yesterday after almost five thousand days and today you have the opportunity to solemnly ask forgiveness of the deceased, their families and the Spanish society to which those soldiers served. For dignity to them and to our democracy, Mr President, I should ask for forgiveness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. I welcome your interest in this matter, but I have been President of the Government for five years and never a single member of the Socialist Party asked me a question in this House or anywhere else in the General Courts on this matter. I want to say that, indeed, the air tragedy of the Yakovlev was one of the most terrible events in our recent history and has caused great pain not only - of course - to the relatives and relatives of the victims but also to the Armed Forces and to the entire Spanish people. That is why I want this brief speech to begin by paying tribute to the victims of that tragedy, to their families and to their colleagues, to whom I reiterate the support of the Government and of all Spanish society. I would also like to extend this recognition to all those who work for our defence, for our security and for maintaining peace in places far from our country; they do so with invaluable patriotism and a commendable sense of duty, honor and dedication to others. I would like to reiterate and take as my own the words that the Minister of Defence spoke a few days ago in this House. I do his words because I think it's justice. Yesterday I was with the victims' family. It was a frank, cordial meeting. I heard them, shared their feelings. I am absolutely aware - and I have told you so - that there is no possible consolation for the death of a loved one, but we want to help mitigate some of that pain with the resolution to which you have referred. And above all, the most important goal for the future will undoubtedly be to prevent these kinds of events from happening again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF MANUAL Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW MUCH DO YOU HAVE TO SUBJECT THE PRICE OF ELECTRICITY FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO TAKE CHARTS IN THE MATTER? [[File number 180/000105]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u5	Question by Mr Pablo Manuel Iglesias Turrión, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, what measures are your Government planning to take regarding the rise in the price of light?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u8	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. As you know, the price of electricity in addition to taxes has two parts: a free one, which sets it on the market, and a regulated one, which is set by the government. I won't tell you - because it doesn't make sense and you know it - how we found things at the time and the decisions we had to make. What I can tell you is that the regulated part, which depends on the government - which is 42% of the bill - has been frozen for three years and last year fell by 2.8%. We have the problem today on the free side, that is, the one that depends on the market. This one's up. Why did he come up? Because since the January 2016 minimum price oil has risen 112%, natural gas 130% and coal 113%. It is therefore normal for electricity prices to rise. In addition, weather conditions do not help. Produce electricity? Yeah. With hydroelectric or wind power plants - water or wind - it's cheaper than doing it with gas or oil; this is amazing that you still have to explain it because it seems you don't understand it but it is. Nor does it help the situation in France and other factors, but - I insist - the most determining factor is the rise of more than one hundred percent in the price of oil, natural gas and coal. This didn't just happen here. This has happened in all the countries of Europe. Invoices in France, Switzerland, Italy, Belgium and other countries have risen more than in ours. What will happen - which is most important - throughout the year? Now we're at 2015 prices. Last year, 2016, it was exceptionally good for the fall in oil and gas prices. Therefore, we are at 2015 prices but at prices cheaper than the previous years, 2013 and 2014. It is precisely the decisions taken by the Government that allow the fixed part of the tariff to be frozen and that have led us to be in 2015 prices and not in a much worse situation than it would have been if we had not taken the decisions that I hope you will applaud in the second part of your speech today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u9	Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, I thank you on this occasion as well as looking to heaven and waiting for rain to have given you some more explanation. As you will agree with me that the rise of light generates a huge social alarm among Spanish citizens, I will propose that we be constructive in this monitoring session. I am going to propose five measures that your Government could take and I am going to ask you to write them down and answer me if they look good or if they don't. I think it's one way, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, very sensible to direct us to each other. The first step I propose is to audit the costs of electricity generation in Spain, and if that audit tells us that, in fact, the costs of electricity generation are very far from the final price, then the pricing system is changed and we limit the abuses of electric oligopoly. The second measure is to tax the so-called fallen profits from the sky of nuclear and hydroelectric power plants. The third is to recover the public management of hydroelectric power plants when the concession expires, and so we prevent speculation on the embalmed water. The fourth, abolishing the sun tax, and so we really favor self-consumption. And the fifth, since light is a basic good, I propose that we reduce VAT by 21% to the super-reduced by 4% or at least the reduced by 10%. You set examples from other countries, I'm not proposing anything strange to you. In Italy it is 10%, in the United Kingdom 5% and in Belgium 6%. Finally, as I have 30 seconds left, I will also ask you whether it seems to you unthinkable that there are former ministers and former presidents of your party and of the Socialist Party who still sit on boards of directors of electricity companies today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u11	Mr President of the Government, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u12	Well, of the five proposals that you have made to me, I only agree with one, which is the first, but the problem we have is that the model is already audited and is being audited on an ongoing basis. I do not agree with any of the others, especially one, which is that of self-consumption. Look, people who have self-consumption are just gonna pay...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u13	Time's up. Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT'S OPINION ON THE RECORD TO THE HOUSE OF HOUR? [[File number 180/000096]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u14	Question also addressed to the President of the Government, by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u15	Thank you, President. President of the Government, the Court of Auditors in 2014 - but it has done so again in January 2017 - has informed the Spaniards of something that neither you nor your Government nor Mr Zapatero's previous government had explained to us; he has told us that the Spaniards will be costing us the bill of looting of the political savings boxes 41 billion euros of public money and 19 billion euros of the Bank Deposit Fund. Mr Rajoy, in Spain we have had to raise taxes, make cuts in health and education, while in this country looted savings boxes have been rescued, as is being seen in the courts, by some political outbursts. The main feature of these boxes is not that they are well or poorly managed, it is that there are former ministers, former presidents of autonomous communities of the PP, the PSOE or other parties at the head of this ruin. I ask you, Mr Rajoy, with a report from the Court of Auditors - which is not from Citizens or the PP or the PSOE - it is a report from the Court of Auditors - which says that there are 41 billion euros of public money that have literally gone to waste, what does the government intend to do to investigate that hole? Are you going to stop blocking you, as you did yesterday at the Bureau, PP and PSOE, the investigation of the hole in the savings boxes or are you going to continue to agree PP and PSOE that this looting of public money from the pocket of the Spaniards cannot be investigated at the parliamentary seat? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u17	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. Without a sound banking system there is neither credit nor investment, nor growth, nor employment, nor economic recovery. And when we arrived at the government the situation of our banking system was, as you know very well, of immense weakness, and we had to act in order for there to be economic recovery in Spain. But this was not only done by us; this was done by the vast majority of the countries of the European Union. Germany supported its financial institutions with 8% of its GDP, Ireland with 31%, Greece with 22%, Slovenia with 18%, Cyprus with 18%, Spain with 5%, Luxembourg with 5.5%, the Netherlands with 4.8%, and so we could continue. You're talking about a ransom. If we hadn't done anything, what would have happened to the savings boxes? A disorderly bankruptcy of the entities that would liquidate confidence in the Spanish economy. Why has the Italian Government now had to give EUR 8 billion to the Monte Paschi Bank in Siena? Because, if not, the entity is unorthodoxly liquidated, an unusual problem is created and affects, without doubt, much, the situation of the Italian economy. What we have done is to defend the savers and depositors who were beneficiaries of the decisions made by the Government, as well as the people who worked in the various financial institutions. Therefore, what we have done is to recapitalise the system, restructure the sector, throw out managers, limit salaries and address the prosecutor who, as you know, has already acted. We have done what was right, we could not do anything else, which is exactly the same as the rest of Europe's countries have done. And if not, we would have had the breakdown in our financial system and very serious economic problems that would affect us all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Rivera, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u19	Mr. Rajoy, you haven't answered my question. I was asking him not about the rescue, but about whether we're going to investigate why 41 billion of the Spaniards' pockets have disappeared with ex-politics in front of those boxes. That's good enough, that we have to speak clearly, that they're ex-politics put by you and the PSOE in front of savings boxes. That they've been ruined, that the Spaniards have paid it with cuts and with more taxes and we want to investigate it, we want to know the truth. Mr Rajoy, you didn't have to lie: Rajoy claims that the bailout from the bank is not going to cost the citizens. [[Shows a newspaper clipping]] This is a lie, Mr. Rajoy; just like Zapatero said we were in the Champions and it was also a lie. The problem is that you lied, you told the Spaniards that it wasn't going to cost a hard one. Look, the Bank of Valencia sold for a euro. That's a full-fledged scam because you told us it wasn't going to cost a hard one and it cost us $41 billion. And we want to investigate it in parliamentary office. Mr Rajoy, the political map has changed. PP and PSOE can no longer agree in silence. I'm asking you to stop putting the trash under the carpet because it already smells. And I ask you to let us investigate in Parliament because the House has changed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u21	Mr. Rivera, you don't want to forget the reality. The latest tests by the European Central Bank say that of 130 banks that have been tested for the quality of assets, Spanish are the ones that have the best results and are the second in the situations to which a stress test has been applied. The most important thing is that there is credit in our country: credit for people, credit for families, credit for SMEs and credit for large companies. The most important thing is that the risk premium, which was above the seven hundred basic points, is today at a hundred and peak basic points. That has served to restructure our financial system. We have done exactly the same as the vast majority of European countries have done. Now it turns out that you are going to be the only person in Europe who has a different criterion than we all have. So, I insist, we did things right and he's recovered. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN TARDA I COMA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: HOW DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT THINK TO ACT BEFORE THE GREAT SOCIAL CONSENT REPRESENTATIVE OF THE NATIONAL COVENANT FOR REFERENDUM IN CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/000086]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u23	Question to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Mr Joan Tardà i Coma.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u24	Madam Vice-President, this afternoon the National Pact for the Referendum, which brings together a large number of entities of all kinds - from Cultural Ómnium to the UGT trade unions and Workers' Commissions, but also independent political parties and non-independenceist parties - will present a manifesto aimed at Spanish society and the international community in which the firm, majority will of the people of Catalonia to decide freely their future through a referendum, to be convened with your agreement. By the way, I urge the Democrats in this House to adhere to this manifesto and I ask you what answer you are going to give to this claim.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u25	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Tardà, the answer will be respect for the greatest political and social consensus in Catalonia and Spain, which is the Spanish Constitution, which protects our democracy, protects the rights of all people and puts a stop to the abuses of the rulers. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u28	We regret the closure of the Spanish Government but we will insist on asking them, demanding negotiations, dialogue and agreements because we are convinced that it is the duty of every Democrat. We are convinced that it would be beneficial for both parties because, moreover, the right to decide belongs both to the Catalans of yes and to the Catalans of no. Dialogue, negotiation and agreements. We have already said this in the investiture debate, we were willing to negotiate everything, timetable, question and procedures, but you must know that we are already in a new scenario in which everything is already up to us. We have a parliamentary majority, we have government stability, especially now that we have agreed the budgets with the CUP, and above all we have the crown jewel: social consensus. 80% of the citizens of Catalonia want to vote, i.e. the vast majority of the voters of En Comú Puem, also Socialist Party voters, also citizens' voters and even some people who have voted for you. I say this to you in all sincerity; if you try to deny the ballot boxes, know that we will also convene the referendum and exercise the right to decide, which is why it would be good for you to correct, to sit at the negotiating table. In fact, we'll wait for you until the last moment. Finally, please disallow Mr Casado, who has denigrated himself and denigrated the People's Party by claiming that the democratic government of Catalonia was a xenophobic government. Please stand up and disallow it. Please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u29	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. On the last question, Mr. Tardà, you have thinner skin than your mouth. Or do you want us all to take a parliamentary urban course with Mr. Rufián? [[Applauds]] Mr Tardà, you tend to confuse Catalonia with independence and, adding everyone, you say: Catalonia is us, in the purest absolutist style. I speak and can speak on behalf of the government and you on behalf of the Republican Left of Catalonia, although, seeing how your senators are doing, they are more useful to the process when they shut up than when they speak. [[Applauds]] What you claim, Mr. Tardà, with whatever tone you want, is illegal and the judge who has ruled that illegality is none other than Judge Vidal. You put forward this supposed right to decide on the fundamental rights of the person, the freedom of thought and the right to privacy. Your Honor, who has said that this is illegal has been the father of what you call the Catalan constitution. I do not want to know what fundamental rights you are defending. What cannot be allowed is that some complain that citizens can be monitored, judges classified and officials qualified according to whether they take a day off or not to support Mr Mas. That is neither social consensus nor democracy. You have chosen the CUP as your interlocutor. For here it has the Government and many other groups, whose interlocutor is a Catalan society based on law and which respects fundamental rights, open and moderate, working for stability, understanding and respect for the rights of all people. Think about all that before you talk about who doesn't have representation and who doesn't have representation. Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. [[Prolonged applause]] - OF THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS AND COOPERATION: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT WAITING FOR TO EXPRESS A SHORT POSITION OF RESPONSE TO MEXICO IN THE LAST DECISIONS OF THE PRESIDENT TRUMP? [[File number 180/000106]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u31	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, by Mr Eduardo Madina Muñoz, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, unlike the Vice-President of the Senators of Esquerra Repubicana, you could be even more useful speaking than quieting. I do not know if you know that in just a week there has been an enormous concentration of infamy in the policies developed by the new President of the United States, Mr Trump. We have heard sixteen prosecutors, the mayors of the major cities of the United States, the State Attorney General has been dismissed - in principle apparently caught in fraganti by applying the United States Constitution -, we have heard the President of the European Council, the Prime Ministers and the Presidents of Government of different countries of the European Union, and you are silent. My question and that of my group is what your Government is waiting for in order to establish a position in defence of Mexico, democracy and human rights in the face of the direct attack against it by Mr Trump. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u33	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Madina, we're not waiting for anything. Indeed, this Government has expressed its unconditional support for Mexico from the very beginning, a country with deep historical and cultural ties and above all the mutual affection of the two peoples. We have shown our disagreement with the measures that run counter to free trade and we have also shown our disagreement with any discriminatory or denigrating immigration measures. We have also called for the re-establishment of dialogue and cooperation between two countries belonging to the same community of values. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Madina.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u36	That is not true, Minister. You have waited until this control session. They now have two options: they can continue with a policy of appeasement or establish a sound policy diplomatically and politically against what is beginning to be defined as a new apartheid against the Spanish-speaking community, against refugees and against third-country nationals, many of them residing at another stage in the territory of the United States itself. You can stay in easy words and in policies of appeasement, but, Mr. Dastis, as you know, of all the stories in history is the saddest because it always ends badly. It always ends badly. European experience tells us that it ends badly. You have two options. One, they can ask the Community partners to convene a Council to establish a common position in the European Union vis-à-vis those who have declared that they come directly against the project of European integration of seventy years of peace and coexistence of our diversity in an environment of 500 million inhabitants, such as the European Union. Two, they can do so in the context of the Ibero-American Community of Nations; in addition to the bilateral, they can take it there, because the wall Mr Trump claims between the United States and Mexico will directly design an apartheid line between the United States and the Spanish-speaking community and the entire Latin American continent. I tell you to set position and do something else. We are going to bring an initiative to this House and we look forward to the support of your parliamentary group in calling for a defence of Mexico's human rights, democracy and dignity at the community level and in that of the Ibero-American Community of Nations. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u37	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Madina, I don't think we can talk about appeasement. I'm not going to be the one to praise prudence, that's what Baltasar Gracián is for. We are convinced that we must act with serenity and without precipitation. In any case, with regard to your call for the Ibero-American Conference of Nations or the European Council, the European Council is meeting this Friday - in case you did not know it - and I have no doubt that this issue will be addressed and the Ibero-American Conference of Nations is in contact with Mexico so that, if necessary, it will be convened, but there is no need for hasty action. Our immigration and human rights policy is clearly opposed. We are in favour of a policy that guarantees an orderly immigration according to the countries of origin and transit, and we trust that this policy will also be the one that will be established between the United States and Mexico. In our view, a stable and prosperous Mexico is also the best guarantee for the stability and prosperity of the United States. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u39	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GALVAN ERRION, OF THE CUSTOMS CUSTOMS PARLIAMENTARY GROUP WE CAN COMMUNICATELY POSSIBLE IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE SO THAT SPAIN DOESN'T BE SUBJECT TO THE PERCEPTION OF INTERNATIONAL TRANSPARENCY CORRUPTION? [[File number 180/000095]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u40	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what steps does the Government intend to take to ensure that Spain ceases to fall in the rate of perception of corruption in Transparency International published this week? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u42	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u43	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Errejón, we must continue to do what we have been doing lately: to work to close spaces for impunity in this area, to generate consensus - we are told by Transparency International that the reforms to be made, and it is clear that the necessary parliamentary majorities, require consensus - and to set an example from the institutions, because there is nothing stronger than an example to generate confidence in the citizens. Therefore, with work, with consensus and with example we will move forward in the struggle in which we are all committed - I am sure - against corruption. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u44	Go ahead, Mr. Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u45	Thank you. Do not take it wrong, Minister, but I initially addressed the question to the Vice-President, not because I do not want to argue with you, but because the Vice-President came to this House in 2013 to present an anti-corruption plan assuming that it was not a legal problem, which was a problem of first order and political order. That plan was presented in a drum and platter just when the Spaniards were shocked by the Bárcenas case, which, according to the statement, is sometimes an old comrade and sometimes a gentleman of whom you know absolutely nothing. Two years later, in 2015, the Anti-Corruption Plan was approved. For this week Transparency International says that Spain has reached its historical minimum in the rate of perception of corruption and impunity, and I wonder what response the Government has to that. There are two possible answers: if you act as a minister, I think you will have to recognize that something has not worked and that something needs to be changed; if you act as a spokesman for the People's Party, you will tell us that this is the fault of the Spaniards, who are very sensitive, populism or rain, as the case may be. I think there are reasons for the Spanish to have this hypersensitivity. The Spaniards may have hypersensitivity when they have recently seen how someone so qualified to solve the big problem of the energetic electric in our country, expert, with a great resume as being a government delegate when the Prestige case or as being director of the Civil Guard when the tragedy of the Tarahal, is plugged into Spanish Electric Network for 150,000 euros a year. [[Applauds]] The Spanish have reason to feel that there is a culture of impunity when the president of the Murcia Region is not going to be able to be tried, but not because no court says he is innocent, but because the reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act, also called Berlusconi Law, is made not to speed up justice, but to accelerate impunity. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] In this situation, I am not very optimistic about you taking letters on the matter because I am beginning to suspect that you are the matter. [[Rumors]] But, in case you had any interest in taking those letters, let me suggest some measures. They have to repeal the Berlusconi Act; they have to increase funds for police and judges and, in particular, for provincial prosecutors, who deal with 80 per cent of cases; they have to reform the Political Parties Financing Act, paying special attention to the foundation's hole... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u46	Your time is up. Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u47	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we have done many things in this House and we should recognize that. It would be good to know what we have done well and what is ahead of us. Today in Spain the political parties have a Financing Law that they did not have before; today the political parties have criminal responsibility if they commit crimes in this area; today the one who steals public money cannot get a prison benefit until he returns the last euro of what was stolen; today there is a Transparency Law that before there was. And all this has been done by the People's Parliamentary Group with its votes and without the support of the rest of the House in the X Legislature. [[Applauds]] That's what we have today, but more needs to be done. I'm sure you do, I'm sure more needs to be done, and we're told by Transparency International. It is also true that these indices of International Transparency, as you know, are perceptions, nor are they science, and therefore I prefer them to compare me to my peers. In this I do want to be Dutch; we could be Dutch and we would be the eighth in this ranking and not behind Qatar, Botswana and other countries, so let me doubt the objectivity of these indices. But, I insist, a lot can be done and we have to do it; we have to prevent black scholarships, to hire assistants without a discharge in Social Security, to give advice to the country that has the most corruption in the world. [[Rumors]] You have certainly brought this issue here because you are also interested in discussing these issues. [[Protests]] Do you know what the International Transparency report says? That populism is a generation of corruption; it also says that Venezuela is the last country in the ranking of corruption. [[Protests.-Applause.]] It is therefore right for us to talk about Transparency International and what needs to be done in Spain to improve these indices. I'm sure we still have a lot to do and I wish we could do it during this legislature, Your Honor. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JAIME EDUARDO DE OLANO VELA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW DOES THE ENLARGEMENT OF DIGITAL SERVICES COMING INTO FORCE ON JANUARY 1 OF THIS YEAR AFFECTED TO CITIZENS? [[File number 180/000100]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u48	Question by Mr Jaime Eduardo de Olano Vela, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, the Spanish society of the 21st century demands from its public administrations the provision of services of the highest quality, and this today is not possible without adaptation to a new environment, the digital environment. There is no doubt the great effort that public administrations are making to interrelate in their day-to-day life with citizens through digital communications, with the benefits that this brings in terms of efficiency, lower costs and accessibility. Public services are available 24 hours a day for the three hundred and sixty-five days a year. In the last five years Spain has taken very important steps in this direction towards a true digital administration. Thus, the latest United Nations study on e-government states that Spain is today the seventh largest country in the world in online services and citizen e-participation. Minister, in the field of your department, the Administration of Justice, digital transformation is not a simple task, because the volume of documentation that is handled in the courts is well known, but the fact is that an important effort is being made both from the Administration itself and from the various legal operators, and I am thinking of lawyers, prosecutors and social graduates, whose effort and proactive attitude in this process of transformation I would like to recognize right now. There are many procedures and actions that can currently be carried out electronically, but perhaps the most important challenge we have faced has been the launch of the Lexnet system as a vehicle for communication between professionals and the Justice Administration on the day-to-day basis of the courts. And, while it is true that it has not been exempt from some problems, I think it is worth highlighting the fact that over 73 million communications have been carried out in the past year no less through the above-mentioned platform. But this is a living process and it is obviously not completed. So, with the beginning of this year, another important step has been taken on this path towards complete digital transformation, and this is the subject of the question I am asking you, Minister. To what extent does the enlargement of digital services which entered into force on 1 January this year affect citizens? Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u50	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the digital transformation of justice is certainly one of the objectives, it was already in the 10th Legislature and I am convinced that it will also be during this legislature; we must be able to incorporate our justice into ways of working proper to the knowledge society of the 21st century. We do it out of conviction, we do it out of necessity, because we have to bring much more agility, much more efficiency and much more transparency to a public service and to a pillar of the rule of law as important as justice. I would say that we should settle for something as reasonable and as ambitious as that in justice what is normal is normal in the rest of the administration and in the lives of the citizens. You said it very well, in 2016 almost 75 million electronic communications have been carried out between professionals and the Administration of Justice. And look, today there are almost a thousand courts that are working digitally throughout Spain, today there are more than 120,000 births of new Spaniards who have registered directly from hospitals without having to do the paperwork of the registry or there are more than 20,000 judicial auctions that have been held electronically. This has been the work of the year 2016 and in that line we will continue in 2017. You asked me what measures we have implemented and how they impact citizens. Since 1 January, any person may already initiate judicial proceedings of those who do not require a lawyer or a prosecutor in any court in the territory of the Ministry of Justice in an electronic manner. Written submissions or access to judicial notices can already be sent to the e-mail office or via SMS when this has been notified to the competent administration. It is no longer necessary to go to a court to grant a power, it can be done online, and the state of a procedure can be consulted telematically. Since 1 January, therefore, barely a month ago, there are already more than 11,000 notifications that electronically have been received by companies directly at the electronic headquarters that they have revealed. That is, we continue to take steps, we continue to make electronics as normal in justice as it is in the rest of society and, therefore, that three hundred and sixty-five days a year, twenty-four hours, justice is available to all citizens and is therefore more agile. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u52	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON JOSÉ ALBERTO MARTIN-TOLEDANO SUÁREZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: EVALUATION DOES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR OF HIS RECENT TRAVEL TO RABAT? [[File number 180/00101]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u53	Question to the Minister for the Interior by Mr José Alberto Martín-Toledano Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u54	Minister, I wanted to ask you about your recent visit to the Kingdom of Morocco and your participation in important meetings with officials of the Moroccan Ministry of the Interior. The importance of bilateral relations between Spain and Morocco in many sectors is well known, but especially in the area of security, in matters related to the Ministry of the Interior, are basic and essential. We are all concerned about the policy of preventing terrorism. I know that we are working intensively with the Moroccan Ministry of the Interior to prevent terrorist acts and cells of capture and radicalization of combatants, which are then sent to the service of the Islamic State. The task of combating drug-trafficking mafias, especially through speedboats in the Strait of Gibraltar, is also very important. The prevention of these crime plots must be based on collaboration, on this exchange of information which is essential for Spain not to be the gateway from Morocco to Europe for such drug trafficking. In the area of migration, I would like to focus on working together to ensure that there is a regulated and stable flow of migration and to combat human trafficking mafias. Collaboration with both Morocco and all the countries in the area is very important. He would like to know whether there was still a good agreement in that collaboration and what his impression was of it. I would also like to stress this important task in the passage of the Strait. How is it regulated? Is our relationship with Morocco satisfactory so that the passage through the Strait is safe for all who do so? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u55	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u56	Thank you very much, President. The assessment was positive, Mr. Member. The Government of Spain understands that collaboration with the Kingdom of Morocco must be continuous and permanent. It is essential for the fight against terrorism, for the fight against drug trafficking and for the fight against illegal mafia trafficking in human beings. I give you some particular evidence from the point of view of the fight against terrorism. In the past two years, 10 joint operations have been carried out. The last one, which took place on 12 October, was evident. Four Moroccan citizens were arrested, two in Spain and two in Morocco. Two jihadist cells were dismantled, people who were part of Daesh and who were dedicated to recruiting and indoctrining people who were going to be part of that terrorist organization. But if this is important, it is also the fight against drug trafficking. It has virtually stopped the famous 'narco-flights' that came to invade our territory with heavy loads of hashish. And above all I would like to highlight the last operation that has been carried out, the first of a joint operation in the fight against cocaine trafficking that comes from South America: more than 1200 kilos seized and 24 people detained in that joint Hispanic-Moroccan operation. Also the Telos plan: more than 800,000 pounds of seized hashish and almost 3,000 people who have been arrested in the last two years. It is clear that we must continue in that path and in that struggle. And in the fight against the illegal trafficking of human beings, relations and collaboration with Morocco are fundamental; we must prevent them from being trafficked with human beings and from losing their lives, despite the efforts being made by joint patrols in both Spanish and Moroccan territory. The operation of the Strait remains one more example. It is almost three million transits that occur in the operation of the Strait. A large number of State officials, public servants, including the Civil Guard, are mobilized to ensure that this transit is carried out without any effect. It is the policy that we are going to follow, that of collaboration, to be able to curb that illegal immigration, but above all from the point of view of trafficking in human beings. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE HONDARRIBIA-SAN SEBASTIAN MONEY BENIT, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT ALTERNATIVES CONTemplATE THE MINISTER TO GUARANTEE THE SUPERVIVENCE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE HONDARRIBIA-SAN SEBASTIAN AIRPORT? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000085]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u58	Question to the Minister for Development of Mr Iñigo Barandiaran Benito of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Recently, and to this group's question about the viability of the Hondarribia-San Sebastián airport to the Government of Spain, the latter replied that the airport should have a runway end security area, RESA, and a runway strip. This response implies, at least apparently, that this ministry envisages a single alternative to adapt the airport to the requirements of the European Aviation Safety Agency's regulations, which would consist in the further shortening of its runways, although both the Airport Coordination Committee and the company Ortzibia, promoting the airport and in which various private institutions and entities are represented, affirm the existence of different alternatives that would minimize the impact of its implementation and the risk to its future. The Government, in its reply, has also made it clear that it is fully prepared to cooperate with all the institutions involved and to assess all possible alternatives, and it is therefore appropriate to listen from its lips to those which can satisfy this situation without diminishing its operationality. Therefore, Minister, could you explain to me what alternatives the ministry envisages to ensure the survival and functions of the airport of Hondarribia-San Sebastián?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u60	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Barandiaran, the Ministry of Development already considers that the airport of San Sebastián has guaranteed both survival and its functions. Proof of this are the excellent traffic data that it has had throughout the year 2016, with an increase in passengers of the order of 3.7%. In any case, as you mentioned, we are open to continuing to participate with other institutions within the framework of the Airport Coordination Committee in the search for alternatives to further improve its functionality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, let me tell you that I am missing some other alternatives that you should already know as the Ministry is part of the Airport Coordination Committee. We also miss the assessment of the different safety measures that would allow the runways to be used without prejudice to their safety and that would lead to greater possibilities of exploitation, which has not yet been made known. We also want to know what efforts you have been able to make to ensure that the lines currently operating in Hondarribia are maintained, which also affects their viability. It is not enough to point out - as you have just done - that there are already a sufficient number of flights or that there are a significant number of passengers, which has even increased. What is needed is to know how many of these lines will survive, they will remain after the modifications that will undoubtedly have to implant the airport of Hondarribia. In short, what we are missing is that it offers us answers not only to ourselves, but also to the institutions, to the associations, to the airport workers and, above all, to the Gipuzcoan society, which is waiting for the ministry, to AENA and to AESA, answers that can provide some kind of guarantee for the future of the airport in Hondarribia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u64	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Barandiaran, indeed the institutions know perfectly well that the airport of San Sebastián has a series of very unique environmental and physical conditions, which are the ones that determine the actions that we can or cannot do on the track. You know that we are complying with a European regulation, 139/2014, which states that all airports must be certified before December 2017. This regulation contains the requirement for the provision of safety strips at the end of the tracks - as you have already mentioned - the so-called RESA, which must be provided to San Sebastián airport. This is the priority objective: operational security, which will be certified by December. To this end, we will start the works in February and we plan to finish them in August. We are perfectly coordinated with the Basque institutions around the technical committee that is working on possible solutions and alternatives and also with society for the promotion of San Sebastián airport. If we cannot now give some additional alternatives to those already envisaged, it is precisely because this work is being carried out within the framework of institutional collaboration and we will, of course, try to put in place measures that will help to improve the situation of the airport itself. In fact, the airport regulation document, adopted on Friday in the Council of Ministers, envisages an investment of EUR 4 million, precisely to include the needs arising from certification and also with a certain flexibility to increase this budget if necessary. In this regard, we will continue to work to boost the activity of San Sebastián airport. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u66	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED AID WOMEN REYNEES CALVACHE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: IS THE PORTUAR ACCESSIBLE INVESTMENT PLAN 2017-2021, PRESENTED BY THE MINISTER OF FOOD TO ENERO PRINCIPLES? [[File number 180/000098]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u67	Question, also to the Minister for Development, by Mrs Águeda Reynés Calvache, of the People's Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u68	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, for any country with maritime coastline the availability of a good maritime transport service, as it is the main channel of international trade flows, in addition to representing an economic activity in itself, can have a positive impact on the competitive capacity of its economy. Hence the strategic importance of the investment in port infrastructure, but also the importance of the improvement of the infrastructures external to the ports as a fundamental factor in their development, since only the investments in the own harbour infrastructures contribute to the overall development of the port. Major investments have been made over the last few years in ports that allow us to be prepared for a demand that is changing, for a demand that is demanding; in short, for a demand that needs first level structures in order to be able to develop. We have closed the year 2016 with a historical record in the traffic of goods, 500 million tons, and also in the traffic of passengers, 33 million, of which 9 million are cruisers, and we continue to gain important positions in some aspects as foreign trade. We must think that 65% of exports are made through our ports and 85% of imports also use Spanish ports as a channel, and most importantly they are major elements of employment generation. It has been shown that it is essential to communicate the port with economic activity centres in order to reduce the cost of market access. In this respect, investments in road and rail infrastructure have a decisive influence on the increase in the areas of influence of ports. The two factors must therefore be balanced, investment in the ports themselves and investment in external road and rail infrastructure. Therefore, Minister, can you explain to us what the 2017-2021 Port Accessibility Investment Plan, presented by you in early January, consists of? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u69	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Reynés, the Port Accessibility Investment Plan 2017-2021 is a set of investments that we have launched from the Ministry of Development aimed at improving the land accessibility of the port system of state ownership. We have for this plan a endowment of 1,418 million euros of public investment, of which 514 will be developed within the current zones of service of the ports and 904 will be developed outside the zones of service through the Fund of land accessibility port, with 552 million euros, through different European funds, such as the Feder and the CEF, with 45 million euros, and finally with contributions from other public administrations, as can be the case of ADIF, with 308 million euros. They are investments mainly dedicated to the railway sector, giving importance in this way to the connectivity of our ports and to favoring the marine intermodality railway in the Spanish transport system. The Port Land Accessibility Financial Fund will have two types of investments. On the one hand, what is known as the last mile, that is the connection with the main railway network of the port, to which we will dedicate about 300 million euros, and those associated to the improvement of the rest of the general transport network, with 250 million euros additional. Specifically, for this year 2017 from the new fund has been approved a budget allocation of almost 140 million euros, with thirty-five actions. Here are included, for example, investments for the external port of Ferrol, for the new southern railway access of the port of Barcelona, for the improvement of the line Sagunto-Teruel-Zaragoza, also the improvement of the railway access to the port of Sagunto, the direct access to the port of Seville, the line Algeciras-Bobadilla, etc. In short, an investment plan that will entail a strong commitment for job creation in 2017, to which will have to be added another EUR 600 million in public investment in ports and another EUR 1 billion in private sector in ports. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u71	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSÉ ANDRES TORRES MORA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: WHEN WILL THE GOVERNMENT LEAVE THE SPANISH CINE? [[File number 180/000094]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u72	Question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport of Mr José Andrés Torres Mora of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the big week of Spanish cinema. Next Saturday at the Goya gala we will attend the demonstration of the exuberant creativity of our producers, directors, technicians, screenwriters, actresses, actors, men and women of Spanish cinema. Unfortunately, the Government's creativity is not at the same level. In the days leading up to the Goya gala - as has been happening in recent years - the government replenishes a film that we have much to see and that in terms of Leopoldo Alas, Clarin, we could headline: Neither a bad word nor a good work for Spanish cinema. To justify itself, the Government says that, despite its policies, cinema is doing well, that good films are being made and that people are going to the cinema despite the fact that the VAT on cinema tickets rose from 8 per cent to 21 per cent, something that is understood more as a political punishment than as a useful fiscal and economic measure. And it's true, you make good movies, people go to the movies, but it's also true that when you came to the government there were 460 more movie screens in our country and 160 more movie rooms, which are now large warehouses or which have been sold to foreign multinationals of distribution and film exhibition. The difference between an act and an act is that the actions end and have no consequences and the acts have consequences. The Government is doing well with its words. My question is whether you are going to raise your actions to the level of your words. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u74	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Torres Mora, thank you for your question. You said this week is the big week of cinema. I think it's been the big movie week several weeks ago - we've had the Forqué Awards, the Feroz Awards - but it's true that this Saturday - I know you're going to go, I too - we'll have the Goya Awards. I also believe, as you do - and I am glad that we say this from this House, which represents national sovereignty - that Spanish cinema enjoys good health. Probably, as you said, despite the government. It seems very good to me that you get involved with the government; you don't get involved with cinema because Spanish cinema this year has done very well. We have a good harvest of Spanish cinema; 168 films, 5 of them have seen them more than a million spectators, 20% screen share, 5% increase in the collection and in spectators. It's fine and that's the message we have to move, that our cinema enjoys very good health, that our cinema makes us happier in life. Look, Billy Wilder said - he left it written - that if the cinema gets you to forget about the joke you've had with the boss or the invoice you've paid off or that you've parked the car badly, the cinema fulfills your goal. I don't think so, I think cinema, besides that - let me fix the great American filmmaker - gives us satisfaction and joy. Therefore, in that we are and that we are going to celebrate this Saturday all, and I am convinced that many Spaniards through television. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u76	Mr. Torres Mora.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on 11 November 2016, last year, the Socialist Group put forward a proposal for a law to lower VAT on cinema tickets and other cultural products. On 28 December, the day of the Saints Innocent, we received the veto of the Government. No discussion, no debate, no amendments; veto. This is what I mean when I say that your words are better than your actions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u78	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u79	Mr. Torres Mora, do you want acts? Acts. Look, in 2015 we changed the funding of cinema. I think the new funding is better. We have amended the Corporate Tax Act to include more deductions, for example, so that more foreigners can be rolled over to Spain, and it is being noted. It's better too. As for VAT, Mr Torres Mora, I have told you, I say this in this House and I have also told the people of the cinema, who have understood it very well, this year we have a commitment that we have signed with Citizens: we are going to lower VAT on live shows. When we meet the deficit path, we will also lower VAT on film tickets. In our political DNA, Mr President, you are not raising taxes, but lowering them, because we believe that where the money is best, it is in the pockets of the Spaniards to do with it whatever they want. But we have to meet some commitments, we have to pay for welfare society services... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WILL THE GOVERNMENT TAKE EMERGENCY MEASURES TO AVOID INCREASING ELECTRICITY PRICES FOR CONSUMERS? [[File number 180/000090]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u81	Questions to the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. First of all, a question from Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia Díaz of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, does your Government intend to take urgent measures to prevent the price of electricity from continuing to rise, as it has done so far, for consumers?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u83	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u84	Mr Heredia, you asked this question when the price was 91 euros and today it is 69 euros, so it is not claimed that the price continues to rise. As the President of the Government has explained earlier, what depends directly on this House, the General Courts and the Government, which is the regulated party, this year has been frozen and last year fell by 2.8%. Do you know what went up in your time of government? It tripled the regulated part. That is the difference between a responsible policy that seeks not to raise prices and an irresponsible policy to which it gave the same as that of the regulated part, which is between 60 and 65% of the invoice of any Spanish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u86	Spain is the second country in the European Union where inequalities have grown the most. According to a recent report by the Banco de España, with Rajoy the rich are richer and the poor are poorer. 10% of Spaniards concentrate 53% of the wealth, and the scandalous rise in the price of light, according to Facua in a report made yesterday, 30% in the last year, what it does is increase the social gap. Today in our country there are more than 5 million Spaniards who cannot turn on heating in this cold winter because they cannot afford it. There are more than 3 million who delay the payment of the receipt because they are unemployed or have miserable wages, and there are more than 1 million who allocate up to 20% of their income to be able to pay the energy. There are cases such as Sandra's in Barcelona, with two children, one with disabilities, a victim of gender-based violence, who was cut off without notice for non-payment. It should be noted that this person had to be twenty days lighting up with candles and cooking with a gas campsite. Worse was the case of Rosa, the old woman of Reus who died in a fire caused by a candle. In this context I ask you, Minister: do you know that in our country there are more than 7,000 people like Rosa, who die every year as a result of energy poverty? By the way, how can you look into the eyes of retirees, those to whom your Government has in many cases raised their pension only one euro a month, when you have announced that the receipt of light this year is going to rise more than one hundred euros? Rajoy says the light goes up because it doesn't rain. So you're going to do petitions to make it rain or you're going to entrust the Virgin of Dew, like Minister Báñez? Let us be serious; get to work now, carry out cost audits, thoroughly reform the electricity sector and immediately prevent electricity from cutting off vulnerable families, because your Government is getting to divide our country among those who can and cannot afford to pay for the light. His Government could not condemn all those who could not pay the receipt to the cold and darkness. That is why, Minister, I ask you to tighten the belt to the electrics, to tighten it, and very much, and to stop putting your hand in people's pockets. Do something and do it now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u87	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u88	Mr. Heredia, you can't give lessons on the price of electricity, because at the time you ruled, the electricity bill increased by 70%, compared to a decline, with a few better years and some worse years, which has occurred since 2013. This year is going to rise by the conditions, last year the average receipt of electricity dropped about 90 euros. I'm talking about official figures and you're taking me to Fafua, but I'd rather defend the National Institute of Statistics. That said, what I'm also going to tell you is one thing. It seems that you did not know yesterday that a decree-law on social bonus was validated here, which for the first time is dealt with this issue. The social bonus that existed in Spain, which you say did not meet, comes from 2009. You were in the majority parliamentary group in 2009 and it was the one who established that social bonus, which we probably have few left today, and now it is going to be reformed, and it is going to be further reformed with your agreement. And there is going to be regulatory development with the agreement of the Autonomous Communities, and for the first time there will be comprehensive attention to energy cutting problems for those families that are in a more disadvantaged situation, and above all that the Autonomous Communities can through their social workers care for them. Things are getting much better, electricity is being avoided as it used to be. In fact, if we had not done the energy reform would have increased by 42%, Mr Heredia, the average receipt of electricity to any person in our country, because they left an unpopular ottoman, it was called the tariff deficit: almost 30 billion euros in debt and 10 billion euros in cruise of difference between what was entered and what it cost then. And there were revised costs, 7 billion cost review was energy reform. If we weren't paying 40% more for electricity. Man, that the worst energy management in history - which was the socialist - claims it you seem to me at least surrealistic. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DIRECTOR IRENE MARIA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WHAT REASONS HAVE THE GOVERNMENT TAKEN TO RECALL ARTICLE 1, PARAGRAPH 13, OF THE LAW 10/2016, OF 7 JUNE, REFERRED TO MECHANISMS OF FIGHT AND PAYMENT OF THE EFFECTS OF ENERGY POVERTY? [[File number 180/000103]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u89	Question also addressed to the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda, Mrs Irene Montero Gil, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. We wanted to know what reasons led the Government to resort to article 1, paragraph 13, of Law 10/2016 of 7 June, concerning mechanisms for combating and alleviating the effects of energy poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u91	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u92	Mrs. Montero, your information is not correct. This rule has not been appealed by the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Montero, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u94	I wanted to ask you why I do not know whether you are still in the process of appeal or have already resorted to it, but in any case your Government and the previous governments of your party have taken a little of the 'gustirrinín' to resort to the autonomous laws that seek to ensure that Spanish and Spanish people have access to decent and adequate housing, according to article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as well as general comments 4 and 7 of the United Nations Committee. I make a list: in 2013 the Andalusian law and the Navarra law are used; in 2014 the canary law; in 2015 the law of Euskadi and the law of Catalonia, which was an ILP initiated by civil society. Now there is also an ILP in Madrid that is being processed, to see if Mrs Cifuentes is also given the opportunity to appeal. In all cases you have argued against the guarantee of a human right that there was a conflict of competence between the Government, the competences of the State and the autonomous communities or a conflict with the right to property, when the housing you know is a basic good, and therefore your use value should be ahead of your character as good to speculate, which is what the financial institutions use it for. The result is that the right to decent and adequate housing is being systematically violated in our country, so I want you to explain to us why you are putting the Government of all Spaniards at the service of resorting to autonomous laws that guarantee rights rather than drafting rights. Look, in our country anyone, vote who votes - vote for you or vote for us - knows that there can be no people without houses while there are houses without people, and knows that there can be no one without light. Moreover, article 128 of the Spanish Constitution states that all the wealth of the country, regardless of its ownership, must be subject to the general interest. It is also defended by the UN, which indicates that all public administrations - you too - must cooperate with the implementation of human rights. So I propose that instead of resorting to laws that guarantee rights, you put yourself into making a decent and adequate housing law, allowing no light cuts to people who can't afford it, prohibiting evictions without housing alternatives, forcing empty housing to be transferred when entities don't want to do so. In short, put yourselves at the service of the people and not at the service of the speculators, the financial institutions and the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montero. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u96	Look, Mrs Montero, the law of the Autonomous Community of Murcia - to which you refer - is currently in a bilateral negotiation process in a committee, precisely to avoid reaching an appeal of unconstitutionality. This and some other law that you mentioned - not all, the last Catalan law was not appealed - had a problem, and it is that there is a general competence of the General Courts and the Government precisely in energy matters, while there is exclusive competence on the part of the autonomous communities in social matters. What cannot be done by the social policy of an autonomous community is to generate costs or costs for all of Spain's electric consumers, because they only have competence over their social sphere. This has been said in two judgements by the Constitutional Court. It is not a position of the Government, it is a position of the Constitutional, Mrs Montero. That's exactly what we did in yesterday's decree-law. The decree-law of yesterday for the first time links that exclusive competence of the Autonomous Communities with that general energy competence and we will develop it in agreement with the Autonomous Communities. You say let's get to work. Well, the Government is getting to work, it has done it with other parliamentary groups, with the Socialist Group, with the Citizens Group, and we have a decree-law. You didn't want to contribute anything. They sent a role of 'there'. Do you know what a 'there's' role is? You have to do this, you have to do the other... No, when it is necessary to work in a Parliament, it is written in writing. [[Mrs. Montero Gil: Yes, step by step]] No, they didn't. I'm telling you because we were talking to all the groups and we saw what was sent. [[Mrs. Montero Gil shows some documents]] Not if I know perfectly well the papers you sent. It was a role of 'there is', that others do; we protest and that others work. And the other parliamentary groups worked. We have also asked them to contribute to regulatory development, which is the responsibility of the Government, but we want to talk to the parliamentary groups. You still don't send a paper. They were told yesterday by their colleagues in the Socialist Group and also by those in the Citizens' Group. Here it is a question of us all working on a topic that technically has a very complicated solution, because we have to respect the exclusive competence of the autonomous communities, but the autonomous communities cannot affect all electric consumers with their decisions. And this is precisely what we have done, that yes, without your help, because you to protest, the first, but to work and to do technically quality work have, forgive me, no capacity. [[Mrs. Montero Gil makes negative gestures]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u97	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA MELISA RODRIGUEZ HERNANDEZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO TAKE ON THE SUBJECT OF ELECTRIC FACTURITY? [[File number 180/000097]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u98	Question by Mrs Melisa Rodríguez Hernández, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, also to the Minister for Energy.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u99	Minister, bearing in mind that last January the price of light rose by 28,56% and that there were no precedents since 2013, what does the government intend to do to lower the price of the bill of light?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u100	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u101	Mrs Rodríguez, as you know, what is the direct competence of public policy is precisely the regulated part, which is 60 or 65% of any consumer's bill before taxes, and that has remained constant, it has been frozen this year; last year it fell by 2.8% precisely because there was a surplus that could be applied to a reduction of that fixed part of the receipt, and in previous years, thanks to the energy reform, it remained constant and this has allowed a reduction in electricity prices overall since 2013. Last year was, in the market part, an exceptionally good year: there was very good weather and low oil prices - which is what the market part essentially depends on - and this year is not being so, so we have a completely different situation, not only in Spain, but in Western Europe as a whole. In fact Spain has marked prices that are not good, but they are somewhat better than those of France, Switzerland, Belgium, Italy, and even on the tips than those of Germany and Holland. We are in an increasingly integrated market. France is marking us minimums and maximums almost every day because precisely, although we do not have a sufficient level of interconnections, the market is becoming increasingly integrated. And on the part that depends on public policy we have done a lot of work in energy reform, and on the part of markets we want the market to be more efficient, and we have, above all in the field of gas - as you know - taken a number of measures that are allowing a somewhat better functioning in a market that we obviously share with the rest of the European countries. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u102	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u103	As you know and we have spoken many times, Minister, it is no longer a matter of patching, but of seeking solutions and that they be with the greatest possible agreement. Let's start by quoting the agreement that you and I negotiated last August: bet on that system-wide cost audit, signed and negotiated at point 20 of the agreement; or bet on those international interconnections, not only electric, but also gas, also at point 18 of the agreement that you and I negotiated; also the self-consumption or the commonly known sun tax, collected at that point 20 of the agreement last August, and that with the veto that the government has made to the citizens' bill yourself you said there would be a saving of 200 million euros. Furthermore, Minister, as we are here to collaborate and provide solutions, we have studied that, by applying the measures to improve competition and equal it to the other countries of the European Union, 400 euros per family can be saved per year, and I have already announced to you that we will register an initiative when we leave this control session in which we propose that the excise duty on electricity be eliminated, which would mean a direct savings for families of almost 6%; imposed on the other hand by Mr Aznar's Government, when the tariff deficit began. So that they don't argue that we don't know where the money can be taken from I'll tell you that there is money, for example, 2.8 billion euros from the tax amnesty; 5 billion euros from the radials; 41 billion euros from the money that is not known where it is from the savings banks; deputies; Senate. We believe that there is money, that things can be done; planning is necessary. That is why I refer to paragraph 18 of the agreement that you and I negotiated last August, which states that we will work for a state pact. In the end, what we want is for the citizens to stop paying for the political mistakes, for the entire chain that has existed since the Aznar government passed through the government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero until today, because the citizens do not have to pay for the mistakes that can be made in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u104	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u105	Mrs. Rodriguez, your group presumes not to demagogy. If you tell me to remove the special tax on electricity - which does not come from the time of Mr Aznar, comes from much further back, it is a tax that all European countries have by the way - what other tax do you want to raise? [[Applauds]] Because what you can't say is that you lower a tax and don't raise others. What other tax do you want to raise? I say that because we have a public deficit problem in the country and you know it. On the other hand, I'm back on the issue of self-consumption. I defend the general interest and not that of a few. I want all Spaniards not to see the cost of electricity increased, not to increase regulated costs or some to be free to pay part of the regulated costs and transfer it to others, because that is neither efficient nor fair nor helpful. That's good for a few. I am in the government and my obligation is to benefit everyone and not a few, which is what you are always advocating. [[Applauds]] In any case, there is no need for demagogy. We are in an integrated system and prices are being marked as in other European countries. And we'll do something better in this country when the prices in Spain are being... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u106	Thank you very much, Your Honor. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA OF CARMEN NAVARRO CRUZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WHAT VALUATION DOES YOUR MINISTRY OF THE 37th FITUR EDITION 2017? [[File number 180/000102]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u107	Question by Mrs María del Carmen Navarro Cruz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, also addressed to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, it is a reality that tourism is one of the biggest sources of income for our country; it actually contributes 12% to gross domestic product. In the last five years we have seen an increase of 30% in the number of visitors to our country, but not only have visitors increased, but it has also increased the average spending per visitor, reaching a 43% more in that period of time. From the People's Group we are certain that this is not the result of chance, but rather the result of serious, well-conceived work that has been done through the National and Comprehensive Tourism Plan and other reforms that have also been carried out by the People's Party Government in the 10th Legislature, since we cannot forget that tourism is absolutely cross-cutting. As an example, we can highlight the influence on employment, as 12 per cent of social security members come from this sector. These reforms have allowed Spain to lead the tourism and travel competitiveness index developed by the World Economic Forum. As you often say how difficult it is not to arrive, but to stay, and a good thermometer to calibrate what we can expect for the sector in 2017 we usually have at the International Tourism Fair. Therefore our question is what assessment does your ministry make about the 37th edition of the International Tourism Fair. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u109	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u110	Thank you, Your Honor. It is true that last year has been an exceptional year for tourism. Yesterday, the National Statistical Institute corrected the Government's forecast. Instead of 75.3 there were 75.6 million arrivals of international tourists, an even higher figure than we expected, which shows that competitive capacity of our sector. I think it would not be fair to say that this has been for the sake of having had certain geopolitical or conflict phenomena in the Mediterranean. It is a very bad favor that you do to a very competitive sector, with excellent professionals, that you are investing very well and that you have a capacity, even technological, that you see and that everyone appreciates internationally. If we go to how this has been reflected at the International Tourism Fair, in Fatur, we will observe that the fair has been closed with a record figure of 244,000 - almost 245,000 - visitors between professionals and the public, 6% more than the previous year. It has meant a 9% growth in professional participation - that's what really matters most -, which is the ability to attract business. It has also had a commendable media impact: 7,542 accredited journalists from fifty-two countries, with a growth of 5%, which helps to improve and promote our tourist image, and the economic impact has exceeded 240 million euros. It should also be borne in mind that it has been a focal point for the main international tourism managers, both the World Tourism Organization and the different international authorities, especially ministers and secretaries of State responsible for the area in different governments. It is very important that we bear in mind that at the same time as Fitur is launched, with the presence of his majesty the king, the World Tourism Organization launches the International Year of Sustainable Tourism. Spain is becoming a leader in sustainable tourism, and it is enough to see that in the autonomous communities that have indoor products, such as urban and cultural, but above all ecotourism, the number of foreign visitors has increased further. As I said earlier, we have held a very successful fair, with almost 10,000 exhibitors, something more than remarkable, which frankly shows that the health of our tourism sector is good, but it needs to be maintained, that there is support from the administrations and from all the policies in favour of the tourism sector, a sector that has a unique characteristics: it is an open sector, an exporter, but also an intensive labour force, with a capacity to create jobs at a double rate than the rest of the Spanish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARINE OF THE ROMINGUERA SALAZAR SEA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: DOES THE GOVERNMENT intend to extend the period of suspension of lives for the most vulnerable families? [[File number 180/000093]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u111	Questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness. Question by Mrs María del Mar Romingera Salazar, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, does the government intend to extend the suspension of evictions?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u113	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course, Your Honor. We did it in 2015 and we will do it again now. We are open to negotiation, as this is a measure that has favored more than 24,000 vulnerable families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romingera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u116	We are pleased that the work of the Socialist Group will help the Government to take such decisions. A few days ago, a young man, Carlos, asked me what was going to be his family's from May 15, because that day will end the deadline for the suspension of evictions to vulnerable families. Well, as we cannot wait until 15 May, last week we presented an initiative calling for the extension of the mortgage moratorium until 2020 and for it to be done as soon as possible. I will summarise the reasons why we believe that this extension should be agreed as soon as possible. First of all, because we must put an end to the anguish that these families are suffering, with the torture of not knowing what will happen to them as of 15 May. Secondly, because most of them are families who have suffered the consequences of a housing bubble and an economic crisis that they have not caused, and to this must be added the tragedy that in many cases they have been found unemployed and at imminent risk of being the victims of eviction. And thirdly, because time cannot be the determining factor for them to enjoy protection or for them to stop being protected from evictions. The decisive element must be the maintenance of minimum conditions of decent living, allowing them to fully exercise their citizenship rights, and that must be guaranteed by the State. And as the objective deserves our full effort and cannot be subject to temporary limitation, the extension should serve to ensure that parliamentary groups agree to provide our country with a law that will ensure, in a stable manner, the protection of all citizens who, in good faith and for reasons arising from their debts, cannot face up to the payment of their debts. Minister, let us ensure that justice is done on a full-time basis as well. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u117	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I agree with what you just said. That is the fundamental reason why we have established this limitation of launches, why we have adopted a code of good practice and why we have created a social housing fund. All of this has led to the fact that, according to the latest data available to us, more than 76,000 vulnerable families, in a situation complicated for reasons that have arisen, as you indicated, have been able to benefit from this. We are therefore ready to continue with these actions, as they have had a positive effect. But let me give you a consideration that I believe is relevant. We have seen that in the latest statistics of the evolution of evictions, especially of first housing, there is a very significant drop around 25 or 30%; in any statistics: that of the INE, that of the General Council of the Judiciary, etc. That has to do with economic recovery. In other words, it is not just a question of establishing palliative measures, which are important, but of improving the situation from the point of view of economic growth and employment generation. What will undoubtedly produce a remarkable improvement is the evolution of employment. If in Spain employment improves, if there are more and more possibilities and if we see that the price of housing does not collapse, you have no doubt as to what we will see that the situation of evictions is becoming more and more marginal. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u119	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON FRANCESC XAVIER DOMENECH SAMPER, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHAT MEASURES WILL THE GOVERNMENT TAKE TO RECOVERY THE 60,718 MILLION EUROS THAT HAVE COSTED THE BANK RESCUE? [[File number 180/000088]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u120	Question by Mr Don Francesc Xavier Domènech Sampere, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u121	Thank you very much. Minister, the history of the relationship between citizenship and the financial system in recent years is basically the history of one of the biggest thefts perpetrated against our rights that we had never lived, and that was basically thanks to you. As Minister Nadal said, we have no doubt that you work; you are supposed to work a lot. What is not so clear is in favor of those who work. We went from the hunch that we had the best financial system in history to that day, May 10, 2010, in which, apart from the issue of FROB, we lived the largest rights cut in history. We passed that May 28, 2012 in which Mariano Rajoy said that of 'no bank bailout' only a few days later, on June 9, in which he said that it was in any case only a credit that the bank was going to pay. Mariano Rajoy then went to a lot of work, as Minister Nadal says, to see a European Cup party in Poland, and thanked him for all the citizenship of this country at that time. In fact, as Soraya liked to say, we were only at the beginning of the beginning of the great robbery that we have experienced in this country. The Soraya herself said without any raspberry that the ransom was not going to cost the taxpayer a single euro and you yourself, Minister, have not tired of saying that it will have no cost to the citizen. This is the story of a robbery, this is the story of absolutely cynical political actions, this is the story of the discredit of much of the Spanish political class, and this is the story that comes to the end when the Court of Auditors says that it has actually cost us 60 billion euros the joke. We want to know what steps the Government will take to recover those 60 billion, that is, how you will work for the citizenry. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u122	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, it is true that the Court of Auditors has said that some 60 billion have been injected for the time being. A third was injected by the previous socialist government, before 2012, and two thirds by the current one. Your Honor, the fundamental difference is that this injection has made it possible to heal and restructure the Spanish financial sector. You look around us and see what happens in some countries that have not carried out a restructuring of the financial sector. You will realize that there is no economic growth or economic recovery. I tell you one very important thing: if we hadn't injected that money and let the entities fall, then in the first place there would have been the effect that depositors would have to have paid the hole. Those €60 billion would have had to come out of all those savers who had 10,000 or 15,000 euro cards, who would have had to take a take-off. Apart from having been unfair, that would have created a situation of mistrust, and would have led to the fact that the crisis situation in Spain would not have been the one we have experienced, but would have been much more serious. Therefore, if you look today at what they say, both the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, the OECD and international analysts, you will see that the main differential factor in growth in Spain, above the euro area average, as well as in job creation, is the consolidation of the financial sector. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u125	I want to certify that you did the same thing Rajoy did. In this case, he did not go to Poland to see a European Cup match, but he did not answer the question at all. How are they gonna get our money back, the taxpayers' money? Do not explain to me that the financial sector benefited from this, we know it perfectly; in fact, while most of the citizens of this country tightened their belts and you said that you were the main culprits of the crisis and that our rights were the culprits of the crisis, starting in 2013 the Spanish bank began to have benefits without stopping. We already know that the bank... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Domènech. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u127	Thank you very much, President. First of all, the FROB has 65% of Bankia and BMN, two banks that are worth a lot of money and, of course, we are going to privatize it in some way to recover the majority. Your Honor, the demagogy is very easy, we can all roll in it, but let me comment on a question. This was the Government that limited the salaries of bankers, it was the Government that made a communication to the prosecution of more than seventy cases - more than seventy cases - in which there were practices that could theoretically have been likely to have contravened any regulations. That is what this Government has done. Not only has it healed, it has not only restructured, but it has also improved the economic governance of all entities, which has led to the old savings banks now being completely different entities and has certainly improved corporate governance. This is what is behind our country's economic recovery. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANGELES ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT NEED TO IMPLEMENT EQUALITY BETWEEN WOMEN And men? [[File number 180/000092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u128	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Firstly, a question from Mrs Ángeles Álvarez Álvarez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Good morning, Minister. You have suppressed nothing more and nothing less than financing small and medium-sized enterprises for the implementation of equality plans, all postgraduate scholarships for the training of equality in universities and support for the strategy against the wage gap. We have some advantage, and it's that we're on extended budgets, and this has meaning. Which one is it? That it is in your hand to remedy this situation by bringing this very Friday to the Council of Ministers an agreement that can be exempted from the application of the order of the Ministry of Finance these three items that I have just mentioned to you. His Government has already authorized and has done these practices with other games, for example with the National Prize of Sociology and Political Science 2016, several contracts relating to the Prado Museum and others with the port of Gijón, and could thus cite up to ten examples that appear in the BOE. I mean, it's technically possible, you can, and now there's only two things that you have to show here: that you care about this and that you're going to fight in the Council of Ministers to get ahead of what you've committed so far in your appearances, because otherwise it's going to be very hard for you to explain how you're going to work specifically to prevent gender violence if you're going to liquidate postgraduates in universities, for example, or how you're going to involve companies to implement those equality plans and to combat the gender gap if you're going to withdraw resources to exactly encourage that strategy. You know that what we are proposing to you is technically possible and that it also has very low economic impact, we are talking about approximately EUR 1.5 million; so, if you want to win political respect and some authority to continue talking about equality here and on the street, tell us if you intend to solve this situation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u129	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u130	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we care, and this government believes and works on the real equality of opportunities between women and men. Equality is an unquestionable right and an essential value for social cohesion. We are all the same because we are all people, without distinction by gender, race, religion or sexual status. Equality between women and men is a priority for this Government. The fight against gender-based violence is the most brutal inequality that exists and is one of the priorities of this legislature and of this Government. The State Pact against Gender Violence has been one of the points agreed by President Rajoy and all the presidents of the autonomous communities at the Conference of Presidents. The fight against gender-based violence has therefore been at the highest level of political action. Mrs Alvarez, the main inequality is unemployment. The legacy of the previous government in inequality was that 1,300,000 women lost their jobs. This is an attack on equality. We are convinced that one of the most powerful tools to combat inequality is employment. In recent years, all women's unemployment destroyed by the economic crisis has been recovered, with more than 8 million women working, six out of ten entrepreneurs are women, the gender gap is in historical minima and the wage gap is lower than in 2007. The exit from the crisis and the recovery of employment in our country have a woman's name. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Thank you, Madam President. How disappointing it is that you are unable to defend the strategic lines of your ministry here. I had the opportunity to be useful and to recover those funds, but you have decided to follow the disastrous path of permanent attacks on equality. I want you to know that if you do not resolve this situation in the next few days, the only thing that will become clear here is that you become a non-useful minister for public strategies in favour of equal opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u132	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, as you well know, I have appeared five times in the last few days in this House, in the Courts, and I have explained the Ministry's strategic lines on equality policies. While you are in your defence of equality, you focus on political strife and forget the greatest cause of inequality, we believe that we must work together to strengthen social consensus that will enable us to remove all the barriers that today prevent real equality of opportunity. I will always be found working on equality, but from consensus and dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHEN DO YOU THINK TO COMPLETE THE GOVERNMENT OF REITERATES, NUMBERS AND INDEVELOPEMENTS OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL TRIBUNAL THAT OBLIGATE YOU TO TERRITORIALIZE RESOURCES CORRESPONDING TO 0.7% OF THE IRPF FOR GENERAL INTEREST PROGRAMMES? [[File number 180/000087]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u134	Question by Mr Carles Campuzano i Canades, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, when and how do you intend to comply with the new ruling of the Constitutional Court, which once again gives the Catalonian Government the reason for managing the subsidies of 0.7% of the IRPF? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u136	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the Government's will is to comply with the Constitutional Court's ruling respecting the competences of the autonomous communities and to guarantee the solidarity and territorial cohesion of all Spaniards who each year mark the equities in their declaration of income anonymously and in solidarity for the 0.7% programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u139	Minister, the ruling is clear and reminds you that the Government must comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court, which makes no sense to invent tricks to avoid them. There are twelve Constitutional Court rulings that clearly state that these subsidies must be managed by the Autonomous Communities. In that very sentence, he is called upon to be able to comply with it. Madam Minister, I believe that the political reflection that the Government must give on this issue is that it must stop teaching us lessons in the enforcement of laws and judgments, its speech on this issue, on this issue, has absolutely no credibility. Madam Minister, you must reflect on why there is such a large majority in Catalonia, a majority in the Catalonian Parliament, a majority of Members in this House that we demand the right to decide and a majority in the Parliament that we demand independence. This is because you are unable to answer such a small question but in Catalonia it generates so much social consensus. Madam Minister, the 0.7 issue is not a question of the Catalan Members of this House, nor is it a question exclusively of the Government of Catalonia, part of the essential demand of the social fabric of Catalonia, of the third social sector of Catalonia, which is claiming that the taxes paid by the citizens of Catalonia, that this solidarity effort made by the citizens of Catalonia and which marks the law turns into social action programmes in Catalonia. Faced with this reality, in the face of this solid social demand of Catalan society, in the face of the demand of the Parliament of Catalonia, in the face of these judgments of the court that give us reason, you make up legal excuses to circumvent the law. Mrs Montserrat, you should be ashamed of how you fail to comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court. We urge them to comply, to be managed by the Government of Catalonia and to stop giving us lessons in this area. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u140	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u141	Thank you, President. Madam Campuzano, you know that the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 0.7 has only partially estimated the conflict of competences raised. The situation is complex, as has been demonstrated by the different criteria that have been reflected in successive judgements. I remind you that the recent Supreme Court ruling of 15 March 2016 rejected the appeal lodged by the Generalitat de Catalunya on this issue. You are not the ones to give us lessons in serving sentences. I repeat that we are going to comply with the Constitutional Court's ruling, that we are going to respect the powers of the autonomous communities and that we are going to guarantee the principle of solidarity on which this programme rests. Taxes are not paid by the Generalitat, taxes are paid by the people and not by the territories. It is the people who decide in an anonymous, supportive and voluntary way that 0.7% of their IRPF will go to this program to help through the great work that the third sector does to people who are in a situation of greater vulnerability, regardless of where they live. In 2016, Catalonia has received almost €31 million from this programme and 150 entities and 387 programmes have been subsidized. It is one of the communities that receives the most funds from this program and the entities of Catalonia are the most benefited by it. We therefore deeply believe in the necessary role that social action entities play in building a stronger society. One example is this programme, which has been a backbone for our country's third social sector. I ask you to think above all about the importance of continuing to support one of the strongest sectors of social action in Europe and to think above all about people and respect for the principle of solidarity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u142	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA OF CARMEN HERNANDEZ BENTO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ACTIVITIES OF THE NATIONAL TRANSPLANT ORGANIZATION? [[File number 180/000099]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u143	She also asks for the minister of the deputy María del Carmen Hernández Bento of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u144	Thank you, President. Minister, 2016 has ended with very good data regarding organ donation and transplants. Spain has again taken the lead as a world leader. This is important for the Spaniards, because, in short, it assumes that we are the Spaniards who today in the world have the most facility to access a transplant if we need it. More than 2,000 donors have made 4,800 transplants possible in 2016. We have reached an impressive ratio of 43.4 donors per million inhabitants. The data speaks for itself, and we may even fall into the temptation to think this, but my group is very aware that things do not happen by chance, or do not usually, and neither by inertia. There is no inertia that resists the twenty-five years that Spain leads to the head of this ranch. We know that it is the result of work, strategy and also the solidarity of families. That is why we want you to value the measures that have been taken by the National Transplant System. We would like it to be appreciated above all from the point of view of the collaboration and coordination that has existed, not only in the hospital sphere between the murdered and the emergency and critical care services, but also in relation to the autonomous communities. Could any autonomous community have had the success it had without the support and collaboration of the rest and of the National Transplant System as a whole? We are convinced that no, we are convinced that organ donation and transplantation are a very important factor in territorial cohesion. That is why we want you to tell us to what extent you believe that the work of ONT has contributed to success. In short, Minister, how does the Government assess the activity of the National Organization of Transplants. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u146	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, that's right. The Spanish transplant system is the best in the world; it is today and has been for the last twenty-five years consecutively. We're world leaders in transplants. And why are we? Because our system is based on three pillars: solidarity, excellence and equality. Solidarity is the engine of the system. Being a donor is a gesture of immense solidarity and commitment to society. In 2016, more than 2,000 people donated organs in Spain. Thanks to them, more than 4,800 transplants were made, a historical record in our system. Each transplant is an examination of the entire National Health System; an examination that is approved with outstanding results, thanks to the excellence of our National Health System. Behind each call, behind each transplant, behind each operation, there is a great coordination and innovation work that leads our National Transplant Organization, along with all autonomous communities, all professionals and all hospitals. Of this work are indispensable accomplices the health professionals of all the autonomous communities that from the first moment take that call to the last health care that gives discharge to the patient. With regard to equality, the system allows all citizens the same right to access a transplant. It also allows the patient to receive it as quickly as possible live where he lives. Since the birth of the ONT, more than 100,000 transplants have been carried out in Spain, with a rate of transplanted patients well above the European average. It's thousands of lives saved. The most prestigious publication in the field of donation, which is the American Journal of Transplantation, ensures that the Spanish system is an example to follow. Even, he says that learning from our system would help solve the global problem of the shortage of transplant organs. This is a success for society as a whole. The solidarity of the Spaniards, the excellence of the system and the guarantee of equal access have made us the undisputed leaders in donation and transplantation worldwide. Today all I have to say is thanks to those who make it possible every day. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u147	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u148	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent debate by the Socialist Group on the reasons for the lack of forecasting and the lack of coordination of the Government and the inadequacy of the mechanisms put in place to avoid the consequences that have suffered thousands of Spanish citizens, on the occasion of the cold and snow storm over the past week. For your defence, Mr González Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. I already anticipate that I am from Albacete, we live there and unfortunately, two weeks ago we had a complicated situation, as in the rest of southeastern Spain. [[The Lord]] As they say in my land: the government, not only you, stayed out of play. But, of course, we're not talking about gambling. We're talking about a snowstorm. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that my speech will not make them cold, as if thousands of citizens remained, because of the government's discoordination, during the snows that struck Levante and the whole of the southern part of Spain, also the Balearic Islands, as I said two weeks ago. The Government, and in particular the Ministry of Development, has made clear its inability to control a situation of copious snowfalls, a situation that had been predicted and announced by the State Meteorology Agency. The risk of snowfall and other adverse weather events to the southeast of the peninsula and the Balearic Islands was noted. The day was announced, the snow quota was announced, the minimum temperatures to be reached. I do not understand whether the Minister was not aware of the weather information or simply listened deafly to it or simply did not do what they should have done. The State Meteorology Agency activated the red warning on Wednesday, 18th, which is the extreme risk of snow in the interior of southern Valencia, as well as in the interior of the northern coast of the province of Alicante. Aemet placed the orange level in the rest of the Valencian Community and also moved it to Castilla-La Mancha, specifically to the provinces of Albacete and Cuenca. The correctness in Aemet's predictions was total and absolute. In the hours and days following the warning, snow-like precipitation reached just those points, intensely but warned. The Aemet technicians were up to it, but regrettably this Government did not, given the innumerable problems faced by thousands of neighbours in the above-mentioned areas and thousands of travellers travelling by road and railway lines. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that as a result of the cuts on trains and roads thousands of citizens had to spend the night on the road in different places in Valencia, Murcia, Cuenca and Albacete. Valencia's main connections with the provinces of Cuenca, Albacete and Teruel were completely cut off. Specifically and among others, the courts affected highways such as the A-3, Valencia Highway, between Requena and Buñol; the A-23, Mudéjar Highway, in Barracas; the A-35, Albacete Highway, in Almansa; the A-31, Alicante Highway, and the A-7, Mediterranean Highway. A total of fourteen Spanish provinces were affected by road traffic cuts on the national or autonomous network. In addition, five trains from the high-speed railway line between Madrid, Castilla-La Mancha, the Valencian Community and the Region of Murcia, Madrid-Levante, with about 1,500 passengers, were stopped in the province of Albacete. In the long and medium distance, at least 18 trains and 2,206 passengers were affected in the lift area, with an overall estimate of 4,774 passengers being affected by the suspension or alteration of trains and road cuts. Despite this warning, which was also known to the Directorate-General for Traffic and Civil Protection, the lack of efficiency and foresight of this Government in the organization of means and personnel, left thousands of citizens two days later unprotected on roads and railways, in isolated villages, without light, without telephone, without water, without food and without assistance. Renfe's passengers rightly wonder whether there is no responsibility for having to spend the night in the cold, with children and with the elderly, of losing links with other transports, of not getting to their homes, all without any help and without any information. This story, which seems to be taken from another time or from a country not accustomed to snow, happened two weeks ago, in winter and here in Spain. The chaos and uncoordination that we are witnessing is the responsibility of the Government alone. Minister, the victims are thousands of citizens who trusted the government's responsibility to provide basic road maintenance and rail traffic services that they failed to fulfil. Mismanagement, unpredictability and uncoordination also in the face of an anticipated and announced weather phenomenon have put the safety of travellers at risk, in addition to causing significant personal and economic harm. Inefficient has been the performance of the Ministry of Development, which you lead, and also of the Ministry of the Interior. The conclusion is that the snowstorm has left us with a wave of mistakes and a storm of wrong decisions, both of which are the result of a fine rain prior to the lack of anticipation by our ministerial officials. One action, which would have been normal, organized, planned and anticipated, would have been enough to avoid the situation of helplessness that thousands of people lived. Discoordination, I insist, absolute of the Rajoy government - I do not know if the members of the government talk about these things - when on the street a week earlier the forecasts of the Aemet were known. From here I would like to highlight the work carried out by the State Security Forces and Bodies, including the EMU, since they have helped to solve the situation. I also take this opportunity to assess the work of Aemet's public workers and civil protection volunteers, whose participation helped to minimize the serious situation of people trapped on the road all day long. The data presented above are not estimates of this parliamentary group but of the Government itself, made known by you, Mr De la Serna, in a press appearance in which you were forced to apologize - in your textual words - to all drivers trapped on both motorways and railway lines. Mr de Fomento, I do not know whether with that press conference and the request for an apology, you were seeking the acquittal of sins, because the most serious sin, Mr Minister, is that your lack of foresight jeopardized the safety of travellers and caused very important economic and personal harm. On this occasion again the People's Party is ready to take on its mistakes but it does so as always, it takes on the mistakes but not the responsibilities and they seek to satisfy the indignation of thousands of citizens with the vague promise to review the protocols of intervention. You, Minister, have apologized, but I believe that for the thousands affected they are not enough, because the citizens of this country are already sick of impunity, of negligence in public administration, of corruption of high offices that it prescribes, of looting of public coffers without returning what has been defrauded or stolen, of tax amnesties, of convicted and pardoned, of guilty ascents and of award-winning ceasings. But, returning to the sad reality, it is that the cold wave left them as icy as hot was the mood of citizens trapped in trains and roads. Minister, all of them would like to know what were the preventive means to deal with the storm. What protocols of action were followed to ensure the transit of persons? Why were the Spanish southeast highways cut off for hours? How is it possible that the trains were stranded in the midst of this chaos? Could you answer that, Minister? Because, with all due respect, the conviction of this parliamentary group is that the protocols of action that the Government should have envisaged did not work. I insist, this Government was not up to it, in this country there is not in decades a chaos of these characteristics, clearly showing mismanagement, unforeseeability and uncoordinatedness in the face of an anticipated meteorological phenomenon. I make it clear that the government is responsible, not the great professionals behind it, those who were on the ground helping to make this less traumatic. They have intended to overwhelm us with some figures such as the kilometers traveled by the snow-free trucks, or the kilos of brine scattered on our roads, and have also issued some excuses such as the historical snowfall or the fall of some light turrets, circumstances, according to their words, that complicated the situation. These were, however, ex post facto measures, which became urgent in view of the dire failure of the measures envisaged. And that's where we want to get to, the importance that there should be no reoccurrence of functions when planning protocols and road plans. I would like this inquiry to be understood as a constructive criticism that will allow us to avoid situations such as those that have occurred. Mr De la Serna, on behalf of the thousands of affected citizens, I would like you to analyse in detail and rigorously the content of the winter road plans to detect the mistakes made, to modify the terms that are relevant, to apply corrective measures and to be definitively prepared for similar weather circumstances that this country has to face in the future. He gave him the willingness of this group to correct everything necessary. So let's stick to the positive side, Minister, you're going to hear the words. The consequences of the short but intense temporary cold and snow and its lack of forecasting have not caused any serious personal damage. The subsequent rains have melted the snow, and the light receipts of hundreds of thousands of citizens will be lower, if we follow, of course, the theory of the President of the Government. The citizens of this country are people with common sense, we are people able to understand that in the face of an exceptional situation there are situations that may take time to resolve, but the lack of information cannot be another exceptional circumstance and the information to the citizens has shone because of their absence. This Government has acted late and badly in this crisis. I'm done with some questions. You who negotiate with the electric companies your tariff abuse, are not able to sit down to demand coordination and reinforcement of services in the face of more than likely interruption of service in the face of a temporary snow and cold announcement? Can the exceptional situation be admitted in the management of a temporary alert more than forty-eight hours in advance? How can we talk about a cluster of exceptionalities, as the Minister of Development says, to justify chaos? Is it exceptional that in the face of a warning of cold weather and snow, snow roads are flooded and such long retentions occur? Is it really exceptional that in the face of a red-level temporary warning, that is, of extreme risk, accidents occur on the motorways and there can be very long delays? In the Socialist Party we hope that this lack of foresight and diligence will not now extend to the management of the aid approved last Friday by the Council of Ministers and the pending of other temporary measures, which are essential for our agricultural sector, for our communication infrastructures, to alleviate the damage suffered in the homes of many citizens and our coasts. And let us end as Seneca said; it is not that we have little time, but that we lose much, as has happened in the management of this crisis. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u150	Thank you very much, Mr González Ramos. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr de Fomento.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honour, you speak in your speech that you are trying to make a constructive criticism; I suppose you will say this in an ironic sense because I did not hear a single constructive question in all the speech you made, but I did not hear you give any information about something specific that you believe we have done wrong. He talked about inefficiency, uncoordination, lack of foresight... but he didn't tell us: it's that you on this highway did this or stopped doing this. I guess you'll book it for the replica turn and I'll be aware of what data you want to provide. Indeed, you are right, there have been people incommunicado for more than two days and three and four, and unfortunately almost a week in the case of any family, but I would like to remind you that the resolution of the problems of roads and the infrastructure of ownership of the General Administration of the State was resolved in just a few hours, so those situations to which you refer and which we have seen in the media and in the press relate to places that have been incommunicado because of the lack of connection with the roads of other titles, rather than of the General Administration of the State. What you're doing implicitly is criticizing other administrations, not me, for not being able to solve those incommunicado families that have been trapped as a result of the storm. I can assure you that we resolve the situation at the points where those people were trapped in just a few hours. What I do recognize is that I am the only one who has expressed my public apologies and I do so again for the situation that those people affected by the impact on transport infrastructure have had to go through. We have also asked for an appearance in this House to explain everything that has happened and we will have it on 6 February. Getting into the content, in fact, is an exceptional fact the snow that has occurred. You say it's something the Minister of Development mentioned. No, look, this has been mentioned by the State Meteorology Agency, which ensures that we are faced with an exceptional fact. The episode of snowfalls from 17 to 21 January, according to the agency itself, is established that it can be considered exceptional from a meteorological and climatological point of view, do not say, therefore, Your Honor, that I am inventing such a thing; this is something that the Aemet technicians themselves are saying. In fact, they assure that there is no record of a temporal of these characteristics due to the extent of the surface and for the intensity of at least the last 30 years, which is the time of which the recorded precipitation data are recorded. Therefore, there is exceptionality in the storm, there had not been this type of snow in this area with this extension and with this intensity - in some places more than half a metre of snow - for almost forty-eight hours in a very long way, with abnormally low temperatures - below 20° and even with peaks of up to -26o somewhere in the province of Albacete -; all this has been so considered by the Government itself and we have therefore approved, as you have already mentioned, in record time, Royal Decree-Law 2/2017, by which urgent measures are taken to be able to alleviate the damage resulting from these last storms. But in addition to the exceptionality of weather conditions there is another exceptionality for which you may also want to make us responsible and it is that of some complementary, concurrent, parallel facts that complicated and very much all the management of the happened ones. First, the very weight of ice and snow caused more than one hundred power lines to collapse, even more than twenty high-voltage power towers. You will say: is this exceptional or is it not exceptional? In the visit we had the other day in Requena, the managers of the electric company who have been in the management of these lines for a lifetime told us that nothing similar had ever happened in history because there had been an accumulation of ice that, together with the high humidity and wind, had generated the collapse of the high voltage towers. This was the fact that directly affected the railway in the power supply between the chain and the train pantograph. This is exceptional because there are officials, professionals of the Ministry of Development, who have been dedicated for many years to railway infrastructure that had never seen anything like it, who, as a result of the accumulation of that ice capsule on the chain, produced a lack of electrical connection. I can show you a picture that clearly shows what kind of capsule was formed and originated the demolition of so many electric towers. [[Show a picture]] You will say that this is also the minister's responsibility and fault, that the electric towers fall as a result of the snow. It's okay for you to try to make it look that way, but I can assure you that in what I've seen in my life and what I've heard that those responsible for the electrical company's services have never seen anything like it. They are therefore exceptional facts. What have we done? We have made available all available means and for this we know that we have 1,359 snow-relief machines, more than 240,000 tons of foundries distributed in 347 warehouses, 525 silos, 36 emergency parking lots. To do this, we deploy all snow-relief machines, 373, to the most affected communities and proceed to the storage of nearly 62,000 tons of melts. In particular, between Thursday and Friday we carried out preventive treatments in 25,000 kilometers of net, snow was withdrawn in 6,400 kilometers and spread 5.4 million liters of brine and 7,000 tons of salt. In other words, all the preventive measures that could be taken with all the means that we had available were taken. And there wasn't just one incidence. You used to say that people walked in on how many roads all night. This occurred uniquely and exclusively in the A-3, because it is true that there were many incidences, up to 104 incidences in 3,220 kilometres of road, but actually that condition occurred in the particular case of the A-3. In spite of this, we made available all snow-relief machines. Were they insufficient means? No, there were sufficient means to enter but they could not do so because at the A-3, starting at five o'clock in the afternoon, there was an accident between a heavy vehicle and light vehicles that caused several truck blocks later. Starting at 10:30 p.m., two high-voltage lines are decommissioned in PK 306 and 307, and other power lines between PK 252 and 266 are again decommissioned. You will say that this is also the fault of the Minister of Development. It seems very good to me, but the image reflects quite truthfully that we are faced with an absolutely exceptional fact, which was the one that prevented the snowmobiles from entering. [[Show a picture]] If the snow-relief machines had been able to enter, those people would not have had to spend the night there, but there was no human way to pass through the collapsed electric towers on the road. That could only be done at the end of the night and the beginning of the morning, so those exceptional circumstances believe me when I tell you that they are absolutely true. With regard to railway infrastructure, all preventive measures were also taken: the movement of locomotives to check lines previously, the implementation of speed reductions, the parking of trains in protected areas, maintenance in operation to avoid freezing, special attention to specific devices for variable width trains, etc. You've provided some data. In fact, 27 trains were altered and 4,774 passengers were affected; in the long and medium distance all the conditions of those 18 trains and 2,206 passengers could be solved, and in high speed the biggest problem occurred in the AVE Alicante-Madrid, in the town of Bonete, where 572 people were trapped without power supply, as a result, I insist, of this exceptional fact, which, by the way, the technicians of the ministry are still looking forward to the future; people who could finally be driven during the night using a hybrid train, with many technical difficulties, to Albacete and then to Madrid. We put in place all these devices with all the means that were sufficient, but that they did not have access to the places where the conditions occurred and, of course, also the coordination cabinets in the delegations of Government of Valencia and Castile-La Mancha, as well as the crisis cabinet itself on the afternoon of that Thursday in the Ministry of Development. There we were different responsible, except the Secretary of State, who started being but ended up moving to Valencia to participate in the direction of operations from the Government Delegation in Valencia. We were there staring, yes sir, all night, and in the morning, at eight o'clock, we realized everything that had happened with absolute transparency and with all the information available on four radio stations, in all the morning news, and we also reported to the National Security Council, the Council of Ministers and the subsequent press conference to provide information on the whole situation. We have subsequently moved to the areas most affected by the storm to announce the aid that the Government has made available to those affected and who can benefit from it. I agree with you that the work that the professionals did was extraordinary, not only to those you have referred to, but also, of course, the UME, the General Directorate of Traffic, Civil Protection, Military Emergency Unit, as well as the technicians of the various ministries who were there. I went to thank you personally for the work done at the conservation centre that we have in El Rebollar, near Requena, and the testimonies that moved us were impressive. This I'm telling you is what I was transferred to. If I tell you that you didn't have access to the electric towers, I'm telling you what the Civil Guard itself took us on that visit. What I want to assure you is that we are going to continue to analyse in detail what has happened, we are going to strengthen the protocols in what is deemed to have to be strengthened - issues that we will be aware of at parliamentary level - but I can assure you that these preventive means have been properly activated, that the exceptionality of both the temporary and the circumstances that have arisen is clearly recognized, that the necessary means have existed but that they could not physically enter into work and that everything has been done in collaboration with the various State Security Forces and Bodies, whom I would like to thank for the enormous work they have done. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u152	Thank you very much, Minister. The next item is Mr González Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I do not blame you for falling the turrets, but both the Minister of the Interior, who has been a government delegate, and you, who is the Minister of Development, know that there are coordination meetings that some of us have personally attended because we have had responsibilities in the sub-delegation of the government of Albacete and we know that when there are forecasts of the Aemet so far in advance we must have meetings to coordinate all the means. In exceptional situations, exceptional means. All I'm saying is that. I would like to know whether the minutes of those meetings of the winter viability plans really reflect that there was an extreme emergency, if anything. Actually, you're right, I was reserving some data for the replica, but, just as you've been told by those great professionals like, for example, the Civil Guard, I've been told by travelers that they've had a very bad time, even workers. I insist that the exceptional thing is the suffering of many travelers who were trapped for hours on a train or in their car and who didn't understand anything, because they also didn't receive any information from anyone. I do not know whether it will also be exceptional for the delegate of the Valencian Government to take so long to ask for help, for example, from the regional government, from the autonomous government. Is it normal that it takes so long, that you spend even more than a day asking for help? Is it exceptional that the Unified Civil Guard Association itself said that there were few civilian guards, that were scarce and with few means and that they were working for many hours, twelve hours continued? This humble Member does not say so, as the Unified Association of the Civil Guard says, and I transfer him that this is not a receipt, which must be anticipated in advance. Indeed, in another time - in 2009 - some of us were on the highway at the height of Almansa with the civilian guards, with Captain Carretero - now commander - on foot at two in the morning. I insist, in the face of exceptional events, exceptional means. I also want to tell you about Renfe - I don't know if it would seem reasonable to the minister - whether the contingency plan was perfectly prepared. Were you ready? Were you really early, Minister? Don't answer me, tell the people who got caught. It was not, because if there was a forecast of snows - it had even been affirmed to the centimeters of snow that we could have - it could affect the electric grid and they were not able to replace the trains with electric traction by diesel traction trains in time... He looks surprised. Does it seem reasonable to you that, for example, a train that had to leave Alicante, I think that at four and ten o'clock in the afternoon, it will take the chill of 673 minutes to arrive in Madrid, more than eleven hours? That's on the 19th. I'll give you another example. The next day, on the 20th, the train took 850 minutes, more than fifteen hours, when the Albacete-Madrid motorway was already clearing. Why didn't they take buses in time? Why didn't they tell those travelers to give up rail transport and that buses could take them to their destination? Therefore, I insist, in the face of extraordinary situations, extraordinary means. All right, and I thank you as a citizen, if you'll allow me, to apologize, it's okay to apologize, but we also have to acknowledge the guilt, the purpose of the amendment and comply with penance. I mean, you have to see who's responsible and don't let this happen again. Of course it is an extraordinary time, but warned so much in advance and not being able to foresee at least all the necessary means, it has sincerely left many citizens with many doubts. This of letting, as President Rajoy usually does, pass the time... I ask you not to let the time pass in this, nor the aid or review those protocols. It is true that there are those responsible, those who have worked badly, who are the ministerial responsible; to see if it now turns out, Minister, that the only one who is going to cease is the man of time. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u154	Thank you very much, Mr González Ramos. To conclude the debate, Mr de Fomento has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u155	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you say that we have not considered this an exceptional situation. But if I just gave him a story of what we did. Among other things, we launched the crisis cabinet, which is set up precisely when this exceptionality occurs in events and meteorological phenomena. You appeal to the suffering of those people who have had a bad time. Believe me, I know perfectly well how they went through it because we had and had a lot of information about that situation of people we knew were trapped there. I have already apologized for that, and I insist again that I am the only one who has expressed those apologies. I say again that there was coordination with the Autonomous Communities, even though you say no. Indeed, on Friday, once all the incidences on State-owned roads were resolved, there were only forty-one roads cut in the Valencian community. That's true. On 21 there were forty-three affected roads and on Monday 23 there were forty-two affected and five completely cut, none of them from the State, but under no circumstances do we blame the Government of the Generalitat, because I am convinced that they were doing everything in their hand. Still don't give me any of what you think we did wrong. He spoke again of the lack of coordination, that the trains arrived later than expected and that they were used for not knowing how many hours. We know that because precisely we were giving the following day the information about delays and changes in timetables as a result of the adaptation of the trains we had to bring from other places. Of course there were no hybrid trains at that time, as it is an electrified line in which the trains operate with electric current, but that did not prevent us from putting on that hybrid train and thank God we were able to take all the passengers on that train on one of them, even though a second train was on its way. In other words, all means were made available. He talked about protocols and compliance. All the technicians transfer compliance with the protocols, but I would also like to remind you that they are not of this minister or of this government, but that many of them, some updated, are of the socialist stage; protocols which you yourselves have established and which you have not modified. Believe me if I tell you that the contingency plan to which you refer, in this case of ADIF, was approved in 2005 and has been updated, or the road coordination protocol. That is why I would like to insist that, if it is considered, these protocols will have to be further improved and updated. I understand that you want to use politically an event of these characteristics - it is probably your function - but I do not share it. I understand, but it's not the way we're gonna do things. We have moved the governments of the autonomous communities, despite having - I insist - families trapped in localities throughout the week as a result of the snow cover on the autonomic roads, our maximum collaboration and help and we will continue to do so in the face of a phenomenon of these characteristics because I believe that we must act with loyalty. And if you consider - I haven't heard a single thing - that there is something concrete that you think we had to do and that we didn't do or that we did wrong, tell us and collaborate in improving the protocols, but you've been talking twenty minutes and all you've done is give me data that you already knew about how long it took the trains to travel from one place to another, the suffering of the people who were trapped and the existence or not of protocols, which we already know have worked properly. We are here to account with absolute transparency for everything we have done and to explain that many of these neighbours still need our help, so we are going to arbitrate - we are doing it quickly - state aid. Let us trust that the exceptionalities that have occurred around a snowstorm - I am referring primarily to what has to do with the electricity supply - will not be produced again, but I do not think that in this we also want to blame ourselves for what has happened. Your Honor, what we are going to do is continue to work, and I stand by it so that all political parties can be able to improve the protocols so that we can articulate the best solutions for future situations that can occur in relation to state infrastructures. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR ON THE PREARIOUS SITUATION OF CIVIL GUARDY. [[File number 172/000020]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u157	After the debate on this point, we turn to the following: Urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group Citizens to the Minister of the Interior on the precarious salary situation of the Civil Guard. For your defence, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, to begin my speech today, I will ask you, please, to look at the guest gallery. I ask you to look at the faces of the people who are with us today and whom we have wanted to invite from my parliamentary group. Do you recognize them? If you don't recognize them, don't worry that I'll tell you who they are. These are representatives of the Union of Civil Guards, the Association of Civil Guard Officers, the Spanish Association of Civil Guards, the Independent Association of Civil Guards, the Unified Association of Civil Guards, the Union of Civil Guard Officers and the Pro Civil Guard Association. Welcome, everyone. [[Applauds]] Minister, if you don't hear the faces of these people who have come to witness this plenary today, surely it is because you don't bother to go to the Civil Guard's advice. There has been no minister from his parliamentary group who has attended any of the Civil Guard Councils in the past five years. That is because, despite the fact that their mouths are filled with much that they admire and care about all the State Security Forces and Bodies, the reality is that this Government disagrees with the people who dedicate their lives and professional careers to protecting us. Minister, the Civil Guard remains the institution in which the Spanish are most trusted. Even the widespread institutional discredit that exists in our country has not been able to affect the image of the body. This general assessment made by the Spaniards is not random, but is the result of the good doing, the will and the vocation of service of concrete men and women with names and surnames and faces, such as those in this rostrum today. In addition to the spirit of sacrifice, the seriousness and rigour with which they carry out their work and their fundamental role in the fight against ETA, the Spaniards value that the Civil Guard has been left out of cases of corruption in times when sadly these are our daily bread. They also value the family sacrifice that the profession brings, such as living in the workplace, sometimes in very harsh circumstances - as recent events remind us - and continue to look after the well-being of the population after the end of their work shift. However, Minister, this respect and admiration, as well as the personal and family sacrifice of the profession, is still not reflected in your wage compensation. The pay levels at which the Civil Guard is currently located are well below those of the rest of the police force, especially the local and autonomous police forces. In some cases the wage difference is even 30%, thus causing great discouragement among the agents of the Civil Guard. Minister, I will give you three examples. The salary difference between a commander-in-chief of a post and the chief commissioner of a national police station is almost 5,400 euros gross per year; the salary difference between a company's chief captain and a chief inspector of a police station is 6,800 euros. I know you're gonna tell me they're not homologable charges, but they're more or less homologable. The salary difference between a senior head of a senior post and a senior official of a National Police group is more than 2,000 euros. This is a reality, Minister. These are the real differences faced every day by those people we value most and who value the Spaniards most. Such is this retributive difference that all the professional associations of the Civil Guard have come to agree that it is urgent to equalize wages with respect to the rest of the police forces and not to further exacerbate the precarious situation in which the agents of the Civil Guard and their families live; because these gentlemen who are here are not only them, but they have families, children and parents to attend to, and there are families with problems of dependence. In spite of everything, Minister, despite the abandonment in which this Government and other former people hold the body, the vocation of hundreds of young people to enter the body remains untouched. Every year a large number of new agents continue to adhere to the body despite the personal and family sacrifice it brings. Article 6 of the State Security Forces and Bodies Act provides that: they shall be entitled to fair remuneration, including their level of training, incompatibility, mobility for reasons of service, dedication and risk, as well as the specificity of working hours and their particular structure. He says they'll have the right. That right that all civilian guards have is being violated. It is clear that the Government does not comply with this obligation, as the wage gap between the two police forces has not only narrowed but has been increased. Being this bad, minister, being this bad, it turns out that we must add to this that during the month of January, due to an accounting error by the Directorate General of the Civil Guard regarding the salaries to agents in terms of productivity and nightliness, which occurred between April 2015 and June 2016, many of the agents, after having made the corresponding salary calculation that compensated for the overpayment during the previous months, have ended up receiving half of their salary in January. This is dramatic, Minister, because it is also not that you did not know it; in the Council of the Civil Guard, of March 2016 - March 2016-, some associations present here have already warned that the IGO did not work, that it was the heads of unit themselves who had to draw this data manually, with pencil, paper and calculator. I repeat, in 2016, with pencil, paper and calculator, the heads of unit. This is inconceivable. In short, a program that must do these calculations automatically is supplanted by unit heads doing the calculations by hand. No wonder these mistakes happen. But we're in 2016, please! The Council of 29 June 2016 reminded them again and insisted on these incidents, indicating that, despite this report made in March, everything remained the same. Twice they were told, but, of course, you weren't on the Civil Guard's advice. As a result of this inaction in the ministry, despite warnings, many of the officers have ended up receiving half their salary as a result of compensation for having received more during the previous months. [[Displays payrolls and graphs]] Minister, I have a few payrolls here in case you think this is not true, although I know you know that. We are talking about 650 euro payrolls, 700 euro payrolls, received in January. Do you really think that a family can survive with 650 euros net? I find it inconceivable that this is still happening right now. A total of 45,696 cases have been reported, more than 60 per cent of the total Civil Guard staff, a percentage that increases considerably if we take into account that not all scales have been affected. Worse still, the agents concerned, Minister, did not know if they were paying them more or less, and proof of this is that, of the 45,696 affected, 27,643 had been paid less and had not claimed by not knowing. How are the payrolls calculated in the Civil Guard, Minister? Irrespective of the relevance of this salary calculation, if this compensation mechanism had been carried out pro rataly instead of a coup on the January payroll, we would perhaps have avoided that there were agents with a salary below their minimum wage, a salary below the inter-professional minimum wage in some cases, Minister. This is illegal, this cannot be done; nor can the courts do this. The consequences are serious and obvious. Agents who had a payroll, whose fixed share is between 1,400 and 1,600 euros, without counting productivity, organize their payments and from night to morning are in a totally unexpected situation, and putting their economy at risk. Minister, this is not applicable to Mr Fernández de Mesa who, unsuspectingly, finds work as advisor to the Spanish Electric Network; I am referring to the former director of the Civil Guard. [[Applauds]] He wasn't affected by the payroll, he wasn't affected by the payroll. Do you think this is really serious? Gentlemen of the People's Party, do you really think this is serious? Then it fills our mouths to talk about the Civil Guard. Minister, during your appearance in this House in December, you committed yourself to carrying out a number of urgent measures to address some of the shortcomings in the Civil Guard, including wage equality with the rest of the State Security Forces and Corpses. Please, I invite you to show your word in this rostrum with your commitment to equalize the salary of the State Security Forces and Corpses, because it is of justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, you just asked me about the situation of the Civil Guard. After greeting everyone here today, I must sincerely say that we have not been in the government for three months and the various associations have been reunited, first together and then individually, with the Director General of the Civil Guard. [[looking at the public stands]] Mr Gutiérrez, I absolutely agree with your approach at the beginning of your explanatory statement regarding the excellent work of the Civil Guard in favour of freedom, democracy and the security of citizens. Regardless of the different governments, regardless of the different circumstances of the political situation in this country, the Civil Guard has always remained the institution most valued by Spanish society. I also firmly believe that the work of the Civil Guard, its surrender, commitment and effectiveness is something that all Spaniards are proud of, if not, they would not have that assessment. Although you have had to do here the role you have played today - which is in your legitimate right to do so - I am convinced that you know that as a minister I am not insensitive to the situation that the Civil Guard and other public servants are going through. You know that well, because we have had the opportunity to share certain initiatives that we are willing to address, and there is no doubt that if I say so, it is also the view of the People's Party Government. Of course, fair compensation must always be sought for obligations. Now we don't know if we're going to have budgets and I don't think it's appropriate to make one more promise that the Civil Guard can't be kept. In spite of this, make it clear that we will make the greatest effort on our part to try to improve the conditions of the agents of the Civil Guard, a situation that you are asking me for, as well as of all members of the State Security Forces and Bodies. However, I would like to point out a few points to you, because you have just made here a somewhat apocalyptic description that is far from reality. It is true that there are problems, of course, it is true that there are wage differences, but I do not share the statements he has made from the rostrum today, at least in such a simple way, because the circumstances within the body itself are very different and in the same category within the Civil Guard, as I will later highlight. It is true that it is a very complex issue, because comparisons in retributive terms between the members of the Civil Guard and the National Police are difficult to make, given the organizational and statutory differences that exist between the two bodies, and you know it. Ladies and gentlemen, as stipulated in the Organic Law on State Security Forces and Bodies, both bodies share in the development of some functions, but each of them also develops a number of competences of an exclusive nature. The development of these exclusive competencies and the functions corresponding to each body are organized and prioritized in a different way, according to the nature and the very deployment of the different units of one and the other body. They are structured into employment and categories, which are reflected in various laws: the Organic Law 9/2015, on the National Police Staff Regime, and the Civil Guard Staff Regime Act 29/2014. I told him that this was a complex issue, because pay is a term linked to the employment or category that occurs in each case, and that will be decisive to mark the final pay. That is, according to employment, on the one hand, or category, on the other hand, they are associated in a different way with pay concepts as important as salary or destination supplement. The fact is that the respective employment and scale structures make it difficult to compare the salaries of both bodies, and can produce different results depending on how they are carried out. I assure you that your statements are not as simple as you here today wanted to demonstrate and, therefore, what you have said in the explanatory statement and what you have just said in the rostrum today is not correct. I would like to say that it is not possible to state, as you do, that wage differences can reach even 30%, because to the comparative difficulties already present in the structure of scale and employment of both bodies it is necessary to add that of the functions that are performed, which are also remunerated differently according to specialization, penosity, danger, responsibility, etc., attributed as logical to each job. And all this without entering into that, within each body, as I said before, there are also retributive differences between members with the same job, such as between a sergeant of the Tedax type and a sergeant of the armament service, or between a lieutenant colonel who is a professor of the academy and a lieutenant colonel chief of the command. These differences also occur within the National Police. I do not want these explanations to be understood at any time as an excuse - I assure you, Mr Gutiérrez -. The responsibility of the Government to which I am a party must and will be the search for the greatest possible balance between the salaries of these bodies. In that line we're going to work, and it's actually working. I have to admit, there are pending subjects. It was at the end of 2007 that representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Directorate General of the Police and Civil Guard signed an agreement with the police trade union organizations in the framework of the development of a new catalogue of jobs of the National Police Corps, which included an improvement in the salaries of the State Security Forces and Bodies. This agreement should be extended to the Civil Guard, which is why a study aimed at reviewing the unique specific complements of the Civil Guard job catalogue - those who are here with us know that it is rigorously true - has been initiated. The study concluded in 2008, however, the economic situation did not allow its processing to take place. The study, Your Honor, identified situations not well resolved in the current catalogue of jobs, especially those relating to the singularization of special positions, such as the heads of certain units, and to respond to the particular danger, penosity or technical difficulty of others, and, in general, to review the jobs of the lowest specific singular complements, which are the first to be attended to. The Government therefore believes that it is necessary to reactivate the necessary actions to improve the salaries of the civilian guards, adapting the specific special complements of the jobs deployed in the different units of the Civil Guard, especially - I insist - the lower ones, as well as those corresponding to intermediate commands and certain specialties. Finally, I would like to refer to the incidences that have occurred on the January payroll, to which you have also referred in that rostrum. I do not want to confuse anyone with an explanation that is prolific, but I believe that, according to the computer application that has been collecting all the daily activity of the staff, their services and delivery schedules, which is the service module of the Integrated Operational Management System - known as the IMIS - and the application that manages the performance incentives, which is the Performance Incentive Management System, known as the IMIS, some clarifications need to be made: The entry into force of General Order 11/2014, which determines the service delivery regimes, the days and schedules of the Civil Guard staff, forced a renewal of such computer applications to adapt them to the new requirements. The transfer of data between one application and another caused, unfortunately, at the beginning of its operation, some errors, which were gradually remedied, although some of them, according to information provided to me, could not be detected either by the system or manually. This led to the incorporation of certain erroneous amounts into certain payrolls. After a thorough review of all the amounts to detect possible errors, on last January's payroll the tasks were remedied, both for amounts paid more to some agents and for amounts paid less to others; and always for performance incentives and, in no case, their basic salary. I should also like to say that, in the event that the money was overpaid by mistake, the formula that could cause the least harm to agents who had to pay back amounts that were not theirs was used, so that they did not see their payroll reduced in a drastic way, Mr Gutierrez. I would also like to point out to you that, under no circumstances has the total amount that some affected had to pay back been withdrawn, when this meant losing the entire payroll, because even if the law allowed it, it did not seem fair to us, and that is why it has not been done. Furthermore, the current rules do not allow for the fractionation or assessment of the payment of undue amounts. And if the return was not chosen by means of a return file it was to avoid them, precisely to those who had collected some sums wrongly more, additional burdens in the management of the IRPF, as this would have forced them to make a series of supplementary declarations. Mr Gutiérrez, there have been mistakes. We have tried to heal them fairly and seek the greatest justice and comfort for those agents who, unfortunately, had collected a few more and who have now had to return them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u161	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u162	Minister, I thank you for your intervention, of course. Look, when at the beginning of my defense I meant the people who accompany us in the rostrum, I didn't make it as a mere rhetorical figure. What I would like you to understand, and what these people are trying to convey to you with their presence here today, is that behind the words, behind those numbers, there are people of flesh and bone, there are people with problems and needs. And one of those problems, Minister, is the wage inequality and economic precariousness that condemns them. But the situation of these people goes beyond that mere wage claim; it does not even stick to the lack of means or the difficulties they face in forming a family; no. What these people, and all those who represent the Civil Guard, really miss is that their Government, is that the State, which they protect every day with sacrifices and at risk for their lives, truly recognizes what they are doing. That's what these people are really trying to convey to them. Minister, you tell us that it is very difficult to make these payrolls; that, of course, this makes mistakes. Look, I understand that you tell me that and probably a lot of parliamentarians who sit here too; but it's just that we, who have just been here eight months, nine months or twelve months working in the real world, in the business world, can't believe it. Look, the Spanish companies every time there is a regulatory change, a tax change, a legal change, every time there is a collective agreement, we have to adapt the payroll of the workers to whom the company pays them. And it's done without mistakes, Minister! No mistakes! It's okay! [[Applauds]] But, of course, we do this by those who have just worked in places and are not permanently occupying armchairs from one place to another, such as Mr Fernández de Mesa, who goes from deputy to deputy, from council to council and from ministry to ministry. Of course, this is done by other people, and then we do not talk about the difficulties or the problems or the difficulties involved in making a payroll, Minister. I don't understand you telling me it's not true; but if I've taught you the payrolls. Man, these are the payrolls! That is what you have entered net, Minister, 500 euros, 600 euros! It's not a lie. Don't tell me it's a lie what I'm telling you, because I'm teaching you payrolls, with names and surnames. - If you want I'll give them to you later so you can see what the guards are and what their names and surnames are. I'd like to talk about more things. The problem of the Civil Guard is wage, of course, but there are other problems that I am sure you already know: poor condition of the dependencies - all this aggravates the situation -, lack of training adapted to the current reality, lack of means of self-protection, lack of a true integration of women into the corps of the Civil Guard... By the way, minister, only 5,200 of the 75,400 members of the Civil Guard are women. Of the 5,200 women in the body, only one has achieved Lieutenant Colonel level employment, compared to the 223 men who have it. You have another problem, that of family conciliation, which is increasingly denounced by the mothers of the Civil Guard. The body is not prepared for women. I'm not saying it, it's being told by the women of the Civil Guard, the women who form the Civil Guard body when they report that there is a lack of reconciliation for women within the body. This ends up generating absenteeism and absenteeism is also a problem, as we understand well those who come from the business world. Ladies and gentlemen, from my parliamentary group we consider it urgent and essential to move forward with the modernisation of the Civil Guard, so we urge you to promote a framework agreement that equals wage levels and working and conciliation conditions. I'm not telling you to equal wages next month, not even this year. He's told us there's no budget anyway. What do you want to tell me, Minister? Have you come to this House to say that perhaps there are no budgets this year? Is this possible in January? Are you guys thinking there's not gonna be any budgets yet? Well, tell us something, because here we are all waiting for budgets to do a lot of things, and citizens are waiting for budgets to be made so that many of the items will be increased to their benefit, to correct the situations of inequality that have existed during all these years. Minister, develop policies for positive actions in favour of women that correct existing situations; develop a true protocol for work harassment, sexual harassment and sexual harassment based on sex with prevention and protection measures; implement a true system of family reconciliation that allows women in the Civil Guard to combine their hours with childcare; streamline the number of units according to the needs of each area; promote the improvement of training in the Civil Guard corps; promote and promote the principles of merit and capacity in all promotions, and that this also has transparency and participation criteria. Promote best practices of transparency in management bodies and, please, ensure the effective development of the right of association, in the Civil Guard Corps, by initiating the procedure of readmission of agents who were expelled and expelled for requesting this right under article 22 of the Spanish Constitution, Minister. Facts are love. You tell us you're going to do things, you want to do things. Apply. Here's a parliamentary group that's going to help you. I've committed to you to help you. I told you: let's make a game table to study how to solve this problem. You have told me that you are going to solve it and you have committed - you know - at the meetings we have had - I am not revealing any secrets - to do everything possible to make this true, to make this salary equal is true. You'll have us there. Make it clear that my parliamentary group will support anything you bring in this direction, but preach with the example, Minister, no more words. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Gutiérrez, to reassure you, I am the first one who wants to see budgets that will allow us to continue working for the good of all Spanish society - each vote for what I vote for - as soon as possible, but it is imperative that we have the budget and it is true that we do not yet have it today. My commitment as Minister of the Interior - I have told you in your capacity as spokesman for Citizens in the Interior Commission when we have had the opportunity to be together - is to respect to the maximum the public officials working in the Ministry of the Interior. That commitment is once again ratified here today because it is also the commitment of the Government of Spain. I have repeated - and I did so in my first appearance at the Commission on 21 December - that I am aware that public servants are responsible for ensuring that there is security and freedom in our country. We owe it to them, and my responsibility as a minister is to try to improve the working and living conditions of these exemplary public servants. I believe that neither you nor your formation are the only ones who defend the Civil Guard and the rest of the public servants. Specifically, with regard to the Civil Guard, I undertook to develop the regulation of the Civil Guard Staff Regime Act, and that commitment I ratify here today in this rostrum. In fact, the processing of subjects such as the destinations of the Civil Guard, assessments, promotions, teaching management, administrative staff situations and other aspects of the provision of civilian guards, to which you have referred by saying that we organize the planning of the Civil Guard corps, is already advanced. I can assure you that we have not been, Mr. Gutierrez, with our arms crossed. From the first day we began to work to improve their working conditions, and it is an assignment that the new Director General of the Civil Guard has. By the way, I have to say that since the beginning of the journey he has continued with this idea and I want him to preside over the action of the Ministry of the Interior since the dialogue - it is the intention of the Government of Spain - because it is fundamental and key to progress. From the first moment he has sat down to work - he said earlier - with professional associations of the Civil Guard. He's just arrived and he's had contact with them. According to data I have in my possession, on 1 December the Director General of the Civil Guard had a meeting with all the professional and representative associations, which are part of the General Council of the Civil Guard jointly, and did so to introduce and begin speaking. After that first meeting he has been holding meetings already individualized with each of the associations, according to the data in my possession: on 11 January, with the Unified Association of the Civil Guard, with the Union of Officials and the Association of Non-Officials; on 12 January, with the Union of Civil Guards, with the Spanish Association of Civil Guards and with the Professional Association of the Civil Guard; on 18 January, with the Professional Association of Capes, which although not represented on the Council of the Civil Guard had requested the meeting and had it. We have committed ourselves to making a serious and rigorous study of salaries with them in order to take the necessary steps to improve them. Your Honor, when we talked about the mistake there was, you were referring to the fact that there were no mistakes a few months ago. I can assure you that it was also, unfortunately, errors occur. But even if we have a public salary here, we suffer from mistakes that also occur in private initiatives. And it's okay, they're settled. And when they affect many, they resolve, as has happened. Or is it that in private companies someone has not been urged to return or paid back to someone what should have been paid before and has not been done so? Of course I do. When we are talking about circumstances like this in which mistakes occur, we must be rigorous in dealing with them and seeking that equity and justice accompany us as good counselors. I will tell you something - since you wanted to give data - a total amount of 1,846,570 euros has been paid to 27,643 agents who had been stopped paying those amounts by mistake. They've all been paid. And 1,237,725 euros has been discounted to 18,053 agents who had previously been admitted by mistake amounts that did not correspond to them. The analysis of the discounted amounts reveals that in most cases they were insignificant - I have already ended with this in order not to use the Civil Guard in a demagogic way -: 80% have been deducted from the amounts below 100 euros; 14.5% have been deducted from the amounts between 100 and 200 euros; 3% have been deducted from the amounts between 200 and 300 euros; 1.22% have been deducted from the amounts between 300 and 400 euros; and 1% have been deducted from the amounts between 400 and 500 euros. Mr Gutiérrez, I wish there had been no correction as a result of a mistake that happened several months ago and recommence the situation. Mr. Gutierrez, let's keep working. I hold my hand here today not only to you and your group but to all groups. The Civil Guard is worth it like the rest of the public servants because they provide a great service and, as I said at the beginning of this second intervention, they guarantee us the freedom and exercise of rights. We're going to rationalize what it has to be and we're going to try to improve their living conditions, which we had committed ourselves to. Of course, I am glad that there was a lieutenant colonel to whom I was pleased to congratulate at the very moment when the said officer ascended to Lieutenant Colonel.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u165	Thank you very much, Minister. At the end of the debate on this item, we moved on to the next question. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United Nations may, in common, in MARIA, to know whether the Government intends to transpose Directive 2014/17/EU of 4 February 2014 to improve THE MEASURES TO PROTECT CONSUMER AND TRANSPARENCY OF HYPOTECARY CREDITS, AND TO COMPLY WITH MISCELLANEOUS JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE EUROPEAN UNION ON THE PROCEDURES FOR HYPOTECARY EXECUTIONS IN SPAIN. [[File number 172/000021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u166	Urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comù Podemos-En Marea, to find out whether the Government intends to transpose Directive 2014/17/EU of 4 February 2014 to improve consumer protection measures and transparency of mortgage claims, as well as to comply with various judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in relation to mortgage enforcement procedures in Spain. For your defense, Mr. Mayor Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before I began my speech, I wanted to thank, first of all, the people who taught me the most about justice and the law to Ronald, Daisy, Gladis and the people who stood up and showed that, in the most difficult moments, when the people below move, the people above stumble. The people who put the body in place to prevent gross violations of human rights, our Rosa Parks, who were the ones who defended legality in our country, while the institutions stood on the side of the privileged and the bankers in the biggest looting that has taken place in our country since the restoration of the parliamentary monarchy. First of all, Minister, I would like to recommend some legal references that are important because they are binding on our State. Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, general comment 4 and 7 of the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, which are also binding, and we also have an optional protocol that obliges us to comply with them where we talk about many things about what we are going to talk about today. Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 24 of the Spanish Constitution concerning the right to effective judicial protection and the right to defence, which, as we will see in several judgments, we have been referred to by the Court of Justice and the European Union for systematically failing to comply with our judicial procedures. During these years we have seen how abuses have been generalized by financial institutions. It has been clear that all legal measures taken by the Government have been taken to protect the interests of the bank and to cushion the effects of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and not to comply with them, which, frankly, puts us at risk. Not only has it put us at risk and has it tried with the most disadvantaged and popular sectors, but it also puts our country at risk because we run the risk of a sanctioning procedure. There have been some abuses such as those that have existed in other places where they have been denounced at parliamentary level: subcontracting through intermediaries, you already know the mortgages garbage, the financial products attached to mortgage contracts and the valuations. What about the assessments that the inspectors of the Banco de España themselves were holding their heads talking about the overvaluation of housing in Spain? We could say many more things like deception in writings, etc., but I again recommend an interesting legislative reference that is mandatory and that is in force in our country as is Directive 93/2013. I recommend Article 5 where it says that in case of doubt it must be interpreted in favour of the consumer and Article 6, which is particularly interesting, which says that these clauses do not bind the consumer. Unfortunately, that has not been implemented in our country during these years, and to testify to it is the judgment of our Supreme Court, which has suffered a very hard blow in the Court of Justice of the European Union recently, in December. What to tell you about the situation of absolute defencelessness that mortgage debtors have had in our country in judicial proceedings where in most cases they have not even had legal aid! The assistance necessary to be able to defend itself against financial institutions in a judicial procedure in which until Law 1/2013 nothing could be said. Mrs Robles is well aware of this because when she was a member of the General Council of the Judiciary, this was denounced by civil society organizations: that consumers were not informed of their right to free justice, their right to an ex officio lawyer and that hundreds of thousands of people were crushed in our country's courts. Unfortunately, our legal mechanisms have not worked. The Constitutional Court, before an order that the procedure for the execution of the mortgage was unconstitutional, saw how it did not respond. It had to be the Court of Justice of the European Union in its 2013 judgment - the Aziz judgment - that opened the melon and came to say that in our country there was no effective defence remedy for the people facing that mortgage enforcement procedure. And what did you do? Modify it, put in a sticker to talk about abusive clauses. But at the same time they did not allow them to resort to debtors! But what head does it fit in?! If all there has to be are mechanisms of protection against defencelessness! What head does it fit in?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Sentencia Sánchez Morcillo: Spanish legislation violates Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Right to effective judicial protection, right to a fair trial. What you are telling us is that the rights of the most vulnerable population have been systematically violated in this country in legal proceedings that are illegal. [[Applauds]] If that were not enough, it turns out that in a new legislative innovation you, as you have to give a deadline for people to have the opportunity to appeal, instead of giving legal certainty - how will you do it by forcing judges to notify the deadlines in the framework of the procedure! - do not do so, do so via BOE. It's a shame because we're back on our heads with a new sentence, a criminal case - that's where we have it. The time limits, Your Honor, are set in the framework of the judicial procedure and not by publishing them in the BOE because they generate defence!, which violates the fundamental rights of any justiciable person. We continue and continue with different judgments, such as the Supreme Court's ruling on expenses. With regard to the European Commission's opinion on the transposition of the directive, the deadline has been exceeded, Minister, again! We didn't have time, we had the sentence of the ground clause. And what did you do - with the advice of Mrs. Margarita Robles -? Limit the defence capabilities of persons affected by the application of a ground clause. Do you know what I'm telling you happened to the ground clause? Can I comment on something that has not yet been said in this House? That thousands of people have been executed in the courts of this country when it was the bank that owed them money! What are we gonna do with those people? What are the repair mechanisms? What guarantees exist to defend the vulnerable party in these proceedings? [[Applauds]] None. I'm going to propose another possibility. When someone gets someone's money, it's not normal that it's someone who's got someone's money who says how much he has to pay back. It's not usually a very smart thing. I propose another way to avoid lis pendens - which seems to be your problem -. It is very easy, talk about bad faith and say that those financial institutions that have bad faith - including the Bank Sabadell who is already saying that he is a rebel and that he is not going to comply with the sentences - know that if they go to judicial proceedings and condemn them for not returning their dues they are punished because they are illegal, because they are illegal activities and illegal activities in the rule of law are persecuted and punished, even if they are banks. [[Applauds]] Because banks are not above the law, banks also have an obligation to respect the law. I'm going on. We have a judgment that is from a commercial court that is already telling us that the Spanish legal order has sockets in the application of some abusive clauses, such as the fact that the debtor is imposed on him that they are going to make a mortgage through article 105 of the Mortgage Law, which allows the universal responsibility of the debtor, the application of 1911. There is another article, 140, which allows the debt to be limited to the mortgaged asset. Casually, all financial institutions in our country go for 105. Casually. That is an abusive clause crying out to heaven, it is a systematic abuse against the people of our country absolutely unacceptable. And then there is the early maturity, which once again gives you a lock in Law 1/2013; that neither one nor three, if you need reference legislation on when contracts have to give up, note in the German legislation that it is very clear about it: between 5 and 10% of the outstanding capital. There it is in early maturity. We again forget that the clauses that are null and void are unenforced and no court has the capacity to moderate them. So let's see how we solve this little problem we have. I'll mention a few. I haven't commented on the ground clause, which seemed interesting to me, but yes, the early expiration. I'm going to talk to you about some more that are scandalous. The clause that imposes the index of the IRPH; an index that is a Juan Palomo, I like it and I eat it. Entities impose and manipulate the index and, what have they done? To strangle hundreds of thousands of families in our country by imposing this totally abusive rate. I told him before that there is already judgment on mortgage expenses, because, of course, in the end, the truth is gradually being imposed and that mortgage expenses were always imposed on the debtor seems to have to change. Let's see how we fix that again. Financial institutions have done nothing but abuse, moratoria. I guess you know anatocism. It's just that there were garbage mortgages here; there were also joint ventures here to spread garbage mortgages, and you know what they had? Anatocymism, interests over interests. You paid your share and your debt increased. That was agreed in our country. Of course, some decriminalized usury in 1995 to protect these practices. And there are practices that are known and that the Banco de España knows, like the cross-checks, with which thousands of families in this country were torn apart for trying to access a right as essential as the right to housing. And how can I say that? Because there has been for everyone, even for those with more academic background invented a device. I don't know if you know multi-divide mortgages. If you don't know them, you can find a reference in the European Union directive that alludes to us even if you don't quote us, where it says: These opaque practices that linked mortgages to currency. Here they are, there are also, and there are many people, very prepared to be fooled again by the trick of the tocochocho in the entities, the same that they can do with that regulation that you have said, in which to accept the agreements with the bank and know if people know what they sign, you will have it written by hand. I can bring you all the papers you want from those, from a primary class in our country; the kids bring it to you, there's no problem, but I can assure you that that doesn't guarantee that people know what the conditions are imposed on our mortgage. In conclusion, I want to tell you that legality is about to be fulfilled, and so are we. It is good that you defend your friends, the bankers, and put our country in danger and learn from the people. The time has come for institutions to start enforcing the law and to defend people and not financial institutions. The time has come for the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union to be complied with. We're not raising anything else. But I tell you more, because there is something that unfortunately has taken us away from our culture: this society has a problem and that is that we have a culture of impunity, and we must put an end to it, with the impunity of the privileged.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u168	Mr. Mayor, you have to go finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u169	I'm done. And you know how to do it? It is very simple, in the face of systematic violations of human rights, truth, justice, reparation and mechanisms for this never to happen again. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. The Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u171	Thank you very much, President. Mr Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, I shall divide my speech into two parts. The first is the transposition into our legal system of the directive on credit agreements, to which I referred yesterday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and which could not be transposed, among other things, because the Government had been in office for eleven months. I don't know if you're aware of that, but surely they'll also blame us for it. In the second, I will refer to each of the judgments you have commented on. I'll start by saying something that I think is important. In Spain, more than 80 per cent of families have property. It is true that abuses have been committed, complex situations have been seen, difficulties have arisen, but the fact is that we are clearly above the Community average. There will be something that we will not have done so badly among all so that Spain is the country of Europe in which the percentage of households with home ownership is among the highest. On the other hand, at this time - it has been practically since 2013 - the number of mortgages is growing as well as the granting of mortgages in the environment of 30% which, I suppose, will also be an element of satisfaction. I am going to focus, first of all, on the transposition of the directive and what the approaches are going to be, because you are going to make reference to many of the issues that you, ladies and gentlemen, have been commenting on during your speech. First, the European standard sets out the framework on the compensation that a credit institution may charge for early repayments of loans or mortgages. At present, in our legislation, which we have today, there are two concepts: withdrawal compensation and interest rate risk compensation. The Directive gives the borrower the right to reimbursement at any time and gives the commission a compensatory nature - not compensatory, compensatory - in favour of the lender. The Member State may set the period during which it may recognise the compensation and a maximum level of which it cannot exceed. The draft law that we are preparing, in relation to this subparagraph, states that no commission may be charged for full or partial early repayment of loans or credits except in the case of loans with variable interest rates during the first five years of the contract, which will be limited to the amount of the lender's financial loss provided that it does not exceed 0.25% of the capital repaid in advance. In the case of fixed-rate loans, during the first five years of the contract, which shall be limited to the financial loss amount of the lender provided that it does not exceed 0.5% of the capital repaid in advance and until the seventh year provided that it does not exceed 0,35. Now, in the current legislation, there was the possibility that the bank would receive lifetime withdrawal compensation from the loan and also interest rate risk compensation, in the latter case without any limitation. Therefore, Your Honor, you will agree with me that the bill significantly improves from the point of view of consumer protection: the deadlines are shortened and the limits that can be charged as a result of early depreciation are reduced. Secondly, the Community text sets out the right to convert loans into foreign currency into national currency. At this time, according to Spanish law, the law does not recognize any right to convert into national currency unilaterally the debt of a real estate loan denominated in foreign currency. The bill - which is also public consultation, you could have consulted - establishes the following: The right of conversion for consumer borrowers without any cost, Your Honor, and the possibility of contractually establishing another exchange risk coverage system for non-consumer borrowers, i.e. for companies, for those who already have greater financial knowledge. Thirdly, the Directive regulates the prohibition of certain related sales. As you know, currently lenders can offer their customers, according to the current regulation, mortgage loans that inevitably have one or more products linked. They are usually life insurance, home insurance, as you know perfectly, without offering the mortgage separately. The Directive generally prohibits offering only tied sales, except where specifically specified exceptions are made or where such tied sales are shown to be of benefit to the consumer. In the bill, which again says that it has been put to public consultation and therefore you have been able to consult it, combined sales are allowed, but the credit institution is obliged to submit two budgets, Your Honor, one that includes products that are marketed alongside the loan and others without them. The consumer, the mortgage debtor, the person who is trying to hire the mortgage, will be able to consult him perfectly and if he is not interested in going to another entity. Fourthly, the European standard sets limits on the remuneration of lenders and intermediaries, so that the remuneration cannot be linked to the number of mortgages granted, one of the problems you have pointed out. This seeks to promote sound risk management and not to encourage inappropriate placements. There is currently no legal limitation in Spanish legislation on this matter. The directive requires that the remuneration policy in the marketing of these operations should not encourage, as previously stated, indiscriminate placement. To transpose the directive - you can consult it because it is public - we will oblige the establishment of internal procedures to ensure that the volume of mortgage loans placed is not the predominant factor in determining the remuneration of the intermediary and that they take precedence over other much more important issues, such as solvency analysis and the provision of explanations to the borrower. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, a system is created for the registration and supervision of credit intermediaries and lenders who grant loans for the purchase of houses other than credit institutions and thus offer sufficient guarantees of professionalism and solvency. The Bank of Spain will be responsible for registration and supervision. So far, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental aspect of the directive and how we are going to transpose it, according to a draft - I say again - which is public and which at all points shows that the Spanish Government is making a much more protective and guaranteeing proposal for the consumer than we had before, and even what is laid down in the directive itself that we have to transpose. However, this law, as it said yesterday, gives us an additional opportunity to modify a number of aspects from the point of view of what our mortgage regulations are. As I said yesterday, we will strengthen the transparency of certain elements or clauses included in mortgage lending contracts, which have been called into question by the Spanish courts and those of the European Union. Our aim is to include in the law additional elements that strengthen the transparency both formal and material of mortgage lending contracts. We want to avoid any possible opacity in the clauses and reinforce that the consumer has full knowledge of the economic and legal implications of the contract he is signing, which is often the most important contract he signs in his life. The generation of confidence and security in the mortgage market is essential to avoid credit restrictions motivated by this problem and not repeat mistakes that have occurred in the past. We will propose a strengthening of the information requirements, both in the pre-contractual phase and at the time of the signing of the loan to the notary, and we will enhance the control of legality over the content of the contract. In the contractual phase - I explained yesterday in the Committee on Economics - the lender must make available to the customer, in a standardized warning sheet, information on the existence and consequences of certain clauses or particularly sensitive content of the contract. Information should be given not only about the ground clauses but also about others that you have cited, especially sensitive, such as those of early depreciation, expenditure or multi-dividual clauses, although I repeat that with the new regulation, multi-dividual clauses, you can convert it into national currency, that is to say, the euro, when you think it is appropriate. Moreover, at the time of the signing of the mortgage loan, the notarial control will be strengthened in order to verify that the customer, the consumer, knows perfectly well all the information, and understands it, which is included in the mortgage contract, and the consumer, even if you do not like it - it was something we did in 2013 and if we had done so before you are sure that we would not have had the sentences of the ground clauses - you will have to make a handwritten expression, in which you declare that you accept and understand the content of the standardized form and of the closing of the contract. What we are doing today is to establish clarity and transparency in the surely most important contract signed by millions of Spanish families, which is the mortgage contract. In addition, the future law will include a mandate to develop - and I did not mention this yesterday - a standard mortgage contract. This contract will be simple, easy to understand, transparent and will not generate any alternative doubts or interpretations. In some ways we are going to offer a kind of model contract which, if the parties consider it appropriate, would not generate any uncertainty in terms of its content and would become the contract to be used widely. Therefore, that is the fundamental content of the law in which we are working. This is a very important law that affects millions of families and we are logically prepared to reach agreement with all groups in Parliament, including yours. We would be delighted if you would send us all kinds of observations. They have been able to do so because the bill has been subject to public consultation and, although not now in public consultation, I would be happy to receive all their comments on it. I now turn to the various judgments that you have pointed out and underlined throughout your speech. With regard to the decision known as Aziz, the Government amended the Civil Prosecution Act by Law 1/2013 on the protection of mortgage debtors, establishing that judges could assess the abusive nature of a clause and adopt precautionary measures such as suspension of the execution of the mortgage. Your Honor, we did it only two months after the sentence was made public. With regard to the July 2014 judgment - the Sánchez Morcillo judgment to which his lordship referred - which involved only a procedural adjustment, we re-amend the Civil Prosecution Act with Law 9/2015, of urgent measures in the matter of competition. With this reform, we established that the debtors could appeal against the decision of the judge who would have rejected his opposition to the execution if it were based on the existence of a contractual clause of an abusive nature. With regard to the third of the judgments which he mentioned in October 2015, the future law on real estate credit which I have just detailed will introduce a transitional provision giving a new period to oppose enforcement on the basis of the abusive nature of the contractual clauses. With regard to the judgment of 21 December, to which you also referred, it does not imply a legislative amendment. What it does is to indicate that it has to be compensated, because the nullity of the clauses starts from the initial moment and, therefore, retroactivity affects. That is, it concerns a Supreme Court ruling. What we have done is to approve in this House yesterday the Decree-Law to have an out-of-court procedure, so that the debtors concerned who have zero clauses because they are not transparent or opaque can receive such compensation within three months at most. Finally, last week we heard a new European judgment on mortgage loans, which you also mentioned. It refers to the calculation of interest. Your Honor, let me point out that the Government had already anticipated the 2013 law and we limited interest on delay to three times the legal interest in money. Previously there was no limitation and we limit it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u172	Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u173	The Community court also ruled on early maturity clauses. We, too, had previously modified them by establishing that, instead of a single maturity, there were three. You indicate another criterion, but we multiply by three what existed before. It has therefore been a constant of the Government. We have complied with all the sentences that affected us, and we will continue to do so in the future. At the same time we are going to amend the Mortgage Law and we have also established since 2012, with the code of good practice, the limitation of the launch of the Housing Fund to which more than 76,000 Spanish families have been able to receive. That is giving wheat and not preaching, as you often do. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Mayor Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u175	Sometimes I'm surprised. It is a good thing that in the end he has corrected his intervention because when we talk about early maturity we are not referring to penalties for early maturity, so they can charge him. No, I say to you again that since the Aziz case we have problems; in fact, under that law we have been given a new cleavage, because 3 out of 360 quotas does not seem to be a balanced treatment. That's one thing that only happens in Spain. That's why we managed to attract all the speculators and generate a financial bubble, because here the banks and speculators could do whatever they wanted with the population because the government was on the side of the bankers and the big vulture funds knew perfectly well that they could come here to abuse people. I have forgotten one issue that I find interesting: transparency measures so that people know what has been titrated, what is not and who has the active legitimation in court proceedings, because there may also have been many judicial proceedings that have been instituted by financial institutions that had no active legitimation. All this time we have met at the seat of the Court of Justice of the European Union with some cases. I'm gonna tell you a story. At the hearing of the criminal case, in which they gave us again to reduce the defence capacity of debtors, the President of the Court interrupted the rapporteur of the European Commission and said to him: If it is a repeated violation of European law, why do they not sanction it? And do you know what the lawyer from the European Commission replied? Because Spanish legislation is a mobile target. And it's just that you, dip after dip, you're putting the trash under the carpet, but the mountain can't go on hiding anymore and we're going to find a surprise any day. But you know what? What I do not want is for this to be paid by the people of my country, I want to be paid by the speculators and financial institutions, who are responsible for the abuses. Abuses are not mistakes. Jesse James didn't make mistakes, he made illegals. What we are talking about is illegals that must be pursued. So, what do you want me to say? In the face of human rights violations, there is a need to restore the truth in this country and to know what has happened - that is fundamental, first and foremost - and to put the means in place to make it known. Secondly, there should be effective mechanisms to bring justice to all those who have suffered human rights violations, and I will quote three: one, to be subjected to defenceless judicial proceedings - to hundreds of thousands; two, to produce forced evictions without alternative housing in violation of the United Nations Committee's general comment 7; and three, to condemn perpetual debts, which is the condemnation of social exclusion. Moreover, all the problems that this exercise of violence against the most vulnerable sectors has led to. We have an obligation to end impunity and to establish justice mechanisms. Some ideas as an inventory, in case they serve you. First, a judicial procedure with guarantees, where people can defend themselves, where if I go to a regular trial and ask the bank to stop the foreclosure. This has been told since the Aziz case, 698. Review the sentences, read them, and complete them. Second, paralysis of evictions; that is, compliance with the law: general comment 7. Stop violating general comment 7 and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Children are not to be disposed of regardless of their age. Stop violating our international obligations. Third, limiting debts to mortgaged property and ending perpetual debts. Public park of housing for affordable rent. I think of an idea: we can also use the housing that financial institutions have and that they are using them in a situation of grabbing or giving them to vulture funds, which come to deprive people of the right to housing. In addition, we call for an amendment to the LAU so that there is no bubble in rents. Guarantee in supplies, because it is an essential element: general comment 4. Unfortunately, as far as we live yesterday, it is still not guaranteed. Persecution of financial abuse. We're the only country where you don't chase, we're ashamed. Even in the United States, they have had to appear in parliament to account for their abuses and, as they have the capacity to dispose of criminal proceedings, they have evaded prison, you know how? Paying. I give you some ideas more than you could possibly use. Extension of consumer status to self-employed people and SMEs because a baker is a professional, but not a mortgage credit, and they have also been deceived by financial institutions. Also, enforcement of sentences, a rule of law thing. Establishment of effective mechanisms for consumer protection against corporate abuse. I can think of the following: let's punish anyone who jumps into the law. To conclude, it is very urgent that you answer any questions. Is there, or is there not, a sanctioning procedure against Spain for failing to comply with European legislation on foreclosures and mortgage loans? Have you considered that possibility and risk when you have implemented these new regulations throughout this time? Why have you put our country in jeopardy to protect your friends bankers and fought against the most vulnerable population? Thank you, and I'm waiting for the answer. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u177	Your Honor, let's go to the data. I am not going to stay - as you always do - in general approaches, with a more or less intense component of demagogy; perhaps that is part of your DNA. I'm going to give you here a series of data on this. In Spain more than 80 per cent of families own property; Germany is slightly above 50 per cent and Europe on average is about 10 per cent below. That is to say, with all its flaws our mortgage system has allowed Spain to be the country in which families have greater access to property, and that is undoubtedly behind the fact that, after a very severe crisis like the one we have experienced, in Spain, despite the efforts of some, a real social cohesion has been maintained. Let me tell you another question. If you see the default rate on mortgages, you will see that in Spain more than 95% of mortgage debtors pay their mortgage every month and do so with a very important effort, that's something we all have to recognize. You always use the expression 'your friends bankers'. What do you want me to tell you, look at the recent story and see how many cases the FROB has sent in relation to what were the old savings boxes, etc., and see where many of them come from. On many occasions they have started from the new teams of the old nationalized boxes and, secondly, from the FROB. There are the thirty cases referred to the prosecution. I don't know if others would have done the same. Secondly, you make a number of references on a number of issues and talk about unsecured judicial proceedings. Are you implying that there are unsecured judicial proceedings in Spain? You'll have to prove that. [[Mr. Mayor Perales: Yes.-Rumors]] That is a very, very serious statement. I mean, there may be criteria, there may be more successful and less successful sentences, but of course I wouldn't dare say as much as you do, because you are questioning one of the foundations of a rule of law: an independent judicial system, capable of being independent of the legislature and the executive, and that what you have to do is to enforce the law. Beyond the mistakes that we all make - that can be made - if there is one thing I want to defend here from the Spanish judicial system is that it is guarantor. I'll give you reason on one point. You talk about evictions, children, etc. We, our code of conduct, established that families with children under three years of age could be accommodated in the code of conduct. You were asking me why three years. I'm absolutely willing to raise the age, you're right. For you to see that I address your considerations, in the next modification of the code of conduct there will be an element in which you may be right. From time to time, among that kind of ocean of demagogy, there's a little bit of intelligence that I immediately perceive and pick up. You tell me about the issue of self-employed or SMEs. Let's see, the question is different, if an autonomous or the owner of a SME acts as a consumer, it is obviously like a mortgage that is a deputy, engineer or whatever; that is, we are always referring to natural persons. But, as you will understand, business mortgages are supposed to be something else completely different. I'm just finishing up, Your Honor. We have a chance. I'm one of those people who think it's not all gone wrong, especially when you see things. I can accept that there have been situations that have been opaque or difficult to understand. We're going to improve it; we have a chance. You have no doubt at all that the Government's will is to improve the system, maintaining everything that is positive. We could go to an extreme and say - the maximum demagogy; you have not come to propose it -: For let not mortgages be returned. Do you think anyone would give a mortgage under those circumstances? No, no, With that, what do I want to say? That everything can be graduated. There are many things that have worked well in the Spanish mortgage system. Let us maintain all that and look for what has actually been able to generate situations of uncertainty, doubt, opacity in consumers, in the most vulnerable. Taking advantage of the fact that we are now going to transpose the Community directive - we were not able to transpose it because we were in office - and I am giving you my hand to tell me all the questions you consider. I have no doubt that, just as I am going to do on the issue of the age of children in relation to the code of good practice, I will also do so when that proposal comes to me. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u178	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u179	We now proceed to discuss motions arising from urgent appeals. I remind you that these motions will be voted on at tomorrow's sitting. First of all, it is appropriate to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on child poverty. Mrs Belarra Urteaga has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u180	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the last plenary session before Christmas, I asked Minister Dolors Montserrat about the measures that her Government was going to take to alleviate one of the most serious emergencies in our country, child poverty. If you remember, the minister had prepared her speech at the letter and also had prepared her reply, and she also accused us at a time of having no proposals and that our proposals were those of Venezuela. As there was some confusion with the data and in order to facilitate the work, today we put to you a motion, as a result of the urgent inquiry, which explains to the millimeter what is our proposal to combat child poverty. In order to see the effect of this measure, we do not need to leave at 7,000 kilometres, as you suggested, but we have the consequences right here, in the European Union, in particular in Ireland. We are proposing a dependent child benefit that would effectively increase the amount received by families, in particular the allocation for each dependent child, and effectively combat one of the brute faces of poverty, that of boys and girls. Currently, the benefit we have does not reach 10% of the families and the amount it represents is stratospheric: 25 euros. Already in December we knew that, according to Eurostat, one third of minors in our country are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, 33.4%. And that's not the worst, the worst is that during the People's Party government that amount has increased by almost 6 points, from 28 to 37.6%. And it is that the policies of cuts and inequality that the People's Party has launched have directly led almost 464,000 children to poverty. I do not know how you can sleep, ladies and gentlemen, knowing that, as a result of the policies that they put in place, almost half a million boys and girls in our country go to school without breakfast, without books, with small clothes or go to bed ice cream because they cannot put the heating in their house. I would advise you to listen to the citizens and to the children of our country, because, according to a survey conducted by Save the Children in December 2016, that is very recently, 9 out of 10 people in our country consider the situation of child poverty to be quite or very worrying, and not only that, but that they also consider the policies implemented in recent years to end this situation to be deficient or inadequate. I mean, even if you don't see it in here, outside, on the streets, it's a cry that your policies are totally ineffective. I would also suggest that you listen to the boys and girls. Last week we were lucky to have a parliamentary day on which the spokespersons of the children's and youth participation councils came to Congress. I told the minister in my question that if we listened to what the boys and girls say when making public policies, it is more than likely that these policies would be much more humane and, in addition, more effective. I will briefly read to you what one of the spokespersons, Erika, said in her conclusions: We must try to change our society for the better, so that no one has to live in fear, so that everyone can live a dignified life, regardless of their economic situation; so that everyone is protected and feels protected. And Ariola, another of the spokespersons, considered the deaths from energy poverty as murders and said, also with a lot of logic, that it makes no sense for you to ask for a date with the traumatologist, the very late appointment, you get worse and then you have to go to surgery. To the thread of what Ariola said, Mr. Nadal told us before that we didn't work. I, in fact, will not consent - taking advantage of my intervention - to disrespect our parliamentary group, because we and we are leaving ourselves behind to do a good job of parliamentary work. What's going on - the same is what Mr. Nadal doesn't understand very well - is that we work for people other than you. You work for the electrics and we work for the people. [[Applauds]] With the spirit of what Erika, Ariola and the rest of the spokespersons wanted to convey to us on that parliamentary day last week, we bring here today a proposal for a dependent child allowance which, as I said, is very detailed. It is not a proposal that is ours, Unicef has already proposed it and has been implemented by other countries of the European Union. What we propose basically is to increase in the coming years both the amount and the coverage of the dependent child allowance that depends on Social Security; in particular, because I know that it is difficult to make concrete in this House, the proposal is to increase the benefit twice in the first year of the legislature. In the second, to expand the number of girls and boys to those below the poverty line; all families below the poverty line. In the third year, extend the benefit to EUR 900 and, in the fourth year, extend it to EUR 1,200. This measure would cost only EUR 2.6 billion, while maintaining those already existing per child with disabilities, which would be complementary. We're talking about the law of boys and girls, not adults. This measure would be complementary to guaranteed income plans that can be implemented by the Autonomous Communities and other measures. In this first year of the legislature, in 2017, this measure would cost only 700 million euros, less than 10% of the interest on the debt, that debt that we consider illegitimate and that we are forced to pay because that was the commitment of the People's Party. The yoke of that debt, gentlemen, is literally crushing the children of our country; it is compromising not only their present, but also their future. Based on research conducted by the Tomillo Foundation, we know that this measure would reduce moderate child poverty by 17.8%. This means that 438,000 children would not be below the poverty line, as is currently the case. Moreover, it would reduce the intensity of poverty in households with boys and girls by 14.5 per cent. Moreover, for the greater intensity of poverty, this measure is even more effective and would reduce severe child poverty by 30 per cent and extreme child poverty by 40 per cent. And, as I know you like to talk about costs and benefits, I'll tell you that the estimated cost to get a child out of poverty would be around 6,700 euros. I think this makes it difficult to explain - not in here, but out there - why we are not already spending that money to get the boys and girls out of our country out of poverty. As we have recently read in the press some rather extravagant measures in the agreement between the People's Party and Citizens, I would ask you not to make partisans or extravagant proposals that are not proven in relation to the fight against child poverty, I say this because we saw a plan that said that the fight against child poverty would depend on the Ministry of Agriculture. I don't know if they think that fighting child poverty is like growing potatoes, but no. I'm done. We propose that Spain abandon the low investment in children and in particular a benefit that has already shown that it can get many children out of poverty. Finally, I will give you two examples of two countries of the European Union. In Sweden, for example, the family receives €1,325 per year for each dependent child, which has placed Sweden as the fifth country with the lowest child poverty rate, 12.1 per cent. Ireland, for its part, a country more like us in the economic situation, with a universal benefit of 140 euros per month for each dependent child, has reduced the risk of poverty by twenty-eight points, from 45% to 17% in recent years. I suggest we get started now, because our country's childhood can't wait any longer. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u181	Thank you very much, Mrs. Belarus. For the defence of the amendments tabled, Mr Miquel i Valenti is speaking first of all by the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u182	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. One in three children live in poverty in Spain. It is not a new situation, nor is this the first initiative to correct it. In 2014, my parliamentary group presented a similar initiative, a proposal for a law to improve financial benefits with minors or dependent children, which, of course, was voted against by the absolute majority of the People's Party, with which the proposal did not go forward, remained where it was. I do not blame you for all the evils in this country, but I do appeal to your conscience, to your responsibility by not taking steps to correct the current situation. Today you have one more chance to prove which side you are on. Clearly, the trend is not good, but the current system of operation, which is absolutely perverse, does not guarantee families with real problems a solution to get out of poverty, nor does it allow them, with the help of the Government, to guarantee the opportunities and rights that their children must have. See how wicked is the system that you tell families who enter at most 823 euros that with 24 euros more per month, which is what you give them, you can get out of poverty. You consider that what allows a family to be inside or outside the poverty line is the difference between 823 euros and 847 euros. Man, it's true that less is nothing, but nothing less or nothing is enough to get the boys and girls out of this country from poverty. They have reports of serious organizations, such as one from Save the Children, who says that only by moving from 24 euros to 100 that monthly fee that you provide to families could lift more than 630,000 children from poverty in this country. And you make deaf ears, you make like that doesn't matter. Today they have another opportunity to begin to correct that situation, which will not only affect the future or tomorrow, but also affect today, the present of many boys and girls. Analyzing the situations and experiences of other countries, we find that there are five elements which, balanced to a different extent according to each of the countries and the configuration they have, are essential for things to work. These elements are, firstly, a network of decent benefits, which is what we are dealing with today; secondly, extensive support services for families with children, which are not available in this country; thirdly, active employment policies - nothing more needs to be added on this issue -; fourthly, reconciliation measures with regard to family and working life and, lastly, fiscal policies to support families in the country. These are the five absolutely essential elements to prevent the children of this country from being immersed in poverty, which you do not pay attention to. In that regard, we propose this amendment which makes this text a much more ambitious and bold text and which will ultimately save the children and enable the children of this country to have more opportunities. What do we propose? What we propose is that in the medium term the Government establish a universal child-rearing benefit. This is our model, we have been defending it and we know that we are not the only group in the House that defends it. That is why we have tabled this amendment, which we believe has two key elements. First, it will allow us to immediately remove hundreds of thousands of children from poverty in this country. Secondly - and it is no less important - it has a direct impact on the birth rate and on the country's economy, thus turning what at first sight may seem to be expenditure into an absolute and necessary investment to improve the lives of the people of this country. That is why we have tabled this amendment, and that is why, whether it is accepted or not, we will vote in favour of that text. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. Mrs Millán Salmerón has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Eurostat's report of statistics on income distribution in June 2016, poverty levels in our country have increased considerably, reaching a worrying situation since one in three children is in poverty and social exclusion. Thus, according to this graph, the efforts of the Administration have been clearly insufficient, and this reflects the position of Spain. [[Show a chart]] This is because there has been a great deal of lack of social awareness in this House, but there has also been a great deal of lack of knowledge in assessing the importance of investing in children. It is important because it not only guarantees the present well-being of minors but also guarantees their future development and well-being as adults. First, because childhood is a unique window of opportunity; the experiences experienced at that stage have such an important impact that they affect the capabilities and opportunities they will have in the future. And secondly, because investing in children means investing in a country's economic and social development, as it increases productivity and helps to ensure sustainable and more equitable economic growth. And finally, investing in children - especially the most vulnerable ones - helps build more equitable but also more inclusive societies, and that is fundamental to breaking the circle of poverty and social exclusion. I would like to stress that these last two, exclusion and poverty, are not inevitable products of economic fatality, they have not fallen from heaven and we have to endure and console ourselves thinking: Poor little children, what bad luck they have had! No, because most of them depend on the policies that are implemented in each country, in each State. [[Applauds]] Children's inequality puts us on the line of developed countries, we are the sixth country with the highest level of children's economic inequality in the OECD and the fourth in the European Union, we only have Romania, Bulgaria and Greece ahead of us. For this reason, Citizens propose to progressively increase public investment in policies of social protection of the family. In this respect, we agree with the child allowance; in fact, we have it in our programme in June, at point 43. In addition, unlike the attitude of the Lords of Podemos, who believe that the problem of childhood, poverty and social exclusion is solved with a tweet or surrounding the Congress, we have managed to take away from the government a package of measures to combat child poverty, with a total allocation of 7,830 million euros, which consists - because I see that the partner has not before found out what that package of measures consisted of - in a national plan against child poverty with 5,600 million euros; a plan of free text books - which, by the way, already applies in autonomous communities such as Madrid and Andalusia, thanks to us - with 350 million euros per year; a plan of education for children from zero to three years, with 750 million euros. [[Applauds]] With this, the Spaniards will be able to check how some to do politics prefer to make protests or tweets and others prefer discretion, dialogue and agreement to be useful to Spanish citizens. [[Applauds]] They have also brought us a proposal without a real economic study that supports the figures proposed by their initiative. Therefore, we have some doubts about the management of this model. We are aware of the need to introduce this measure and to increase the child benefit. In fact, as I said before, we were taking it on our agenda, but what we are not going to allow is for society to continue to be frustrated. We want all initiatives to be translated into reality and not to be left in wet paper again, and that is why we must bear in mind the budgetary reality that is going through our country. And that is why, since Citizens, we have tabled an amendment to the motion tabled by Podemos, and what I want to make clear is that no group in this House can look elsewhere while Spanish children are having a bad time. Do not have any doubt that from Citizens we will be vigilant so that the government will comply with its commitments, budgetary and political, as a condition of the investiture, because it is the only way to demonstrate the commitment, the commitment we have with the Spaniards, with the citizens and with the exercise of making a responsible opposition, and above all to carry out the work for which we have been chosen by all the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u185	Thank you very much, Mrs Millan. Mr Sahuquillo García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u186	No one should be indifferent to the dramatic fact that one in three children lives at risk of poverty and social exclusion in our country, and that is why we find welcome all parliamentary initiatives that address this issue and allow us to deepen this debate. In this regard, I would like to recall that this plenary on 30 December voted for a motion following an inquiry by our parliamentary group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on urgent measures against poverty and inequality, agreeing, among other measures, to increase the coverage of the dependent child benefit, increasing its amount and the threshold of family income established for access to it. Ms. Belarra Urteaga, it would be expected from the content of your proposal that the plural that you use in this motion, measures, and the terminology used, of wide coverage, the proposed part of it raises a broad and cross-cutting set of actions to combat what we believe is one of the most worrying problems in society: child poverty. However, it draws attention to the fact that they merely propose a single measure, the increase in the child benefit paid by Social Security. A very important measure, but only one, a measure with a lot of impact, but only one, a measure called for by the third sector of social action, but it is only one, a measure that we share, but that we think alone and isolated will not be enough to combat child poverty. Child poverty is a problem of deep roots, the result of the economic crisis and cuts in social policies of right-wing governments. To combat it effectively, as the title of this initiative says, effective and comprehensive measures would be needed, including the increase in child support, no doubt, but not only that. There is a need for a change of direction in social policies, to return to our ill-fated welfare state everything that has been taken away from it over the past five years. Child poverty is not an isolated phenomenon in Spanish society, there are no poor children in wealthy families. That is why the measures must be broad and cross-cutting. Child poverty is combated by the increase in child benefit, but also by the rise in the international minimum wage and the extension of unemployment protection. It gives substance to children's rights when their access to health care, to quality public and inclusive education is fully guaranteed, also when there are social services that can respond quickly to situations that require it, when they are protected from evictions or prevented from leaving their families without electricity. That is why we in the Socialist Group have tabled an amendment in line with the debate in the Committee on Children's Rights. In the election program of the Socialist Party with which we went to the elections we proposed this measure, but much more ambitious than that proposed by Unite Podemos, both in increase of the amount and at the thresholds of poverty. For example, we were proposing an immediate entry into force and here it is delayed until 2020. As for the amount we want to reach 1,800 euros, depending on whether poverty is severe, high or moderate. The beneficiaries are already 2,300,000 and we propose as a simultaneous measure - which we can say none - a new benefit for households without income and in need, whatever the cause, as a non-contributory social security benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, today the amount and income thresholds of the child benefit are absolutely insufficient, EUR 291 per year, just over EUR 24 per month. I reiterate that it is insufficient, and so many organizations in the defence of children, including Unicef and Save the Children, have also called for its increase. Without disturbing anyone, I am convinced that the majority of the House does not share the attitudes that I will then reproduce, but I do not want to let go of a very illustrative opinion article, dated in 2015, where researcher Professor Sánchez-Cuenca spoke of the ruin of those involved in the absolute majority had a derogatory attitude towards child poverty. It plagued those who said that malnutrition problems were anecdotal or even dared to hold parents accountable. Or those who spoke with contempt of the data contained in Caritas's reports, who brought them to light, accusing them of provoking debate. Not to mention this Valencian regional deputy who in the face of the budgetary debate of his autonomous community addressing the issue of child poverty had the defachability to express literally: I now take a handkerchief and cry. Well, now there is no such umbrella of the absolute majority where some took refuge. I'm done. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we also propose as measures a minimum living income that provides families without income an income that allows them to meet their most basic needs, and that are inherent in human dignity, in line with the new dimension of human rights that the UN recognizes. At the same time, we aim to invest in children by substantially improving the situation of minors in low-income households, thus eliminating the most severe poverty. As a friend said, words are wax, facts are steel. We turn what we say here into steel, we propose and we vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Sahuquillo. Mr Barandiaran Benito then took the floor in the Basque Parliamentary Group on a position-setting basis. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u188	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in mid-October we had a visit to the Committee on Children and Adolescents by the Director of Child Awareness and Policy, UNICEF, with the aim of dissecting the situation of children in the State in some way. He said: childhood is a social good and therefore a matter for everyone. We seek a political and social commitment to children and to children. Mrs Pacheco said: we believe in a childhood that should not be a mere benefactor of aid that covers its needs, but that exercises its rights fully. Without a definite project and clear action in areas related to children, such as child poverty, education, child protection - especially the most vulnerable, including migrant and refugee children - it will be impossible to achieve the goal for countries around the world in the twenty-first century: social, economic and environmental sustainability. I bring this quote to the table because, although Mrs Pacheco also pointed out that the Basque Country had a different reality - our own colleagues told her that this did not serve them, that her photo was another - I understand that child protection levels are not merely a territorial issue, but a matter of recognition of basic rights of those who are most vulnerable. The fact is that the data of different non-governmental organizations agree to describe a situation in the Spanish State in which one in three children lives at risk of poverty or social exclusion, 34 per cent; with a high percentage of school dropouts, 20 per cent, regarding the need to break the circle of poverty and social exclusion with certain measures, as well as the inverse relationship between the level of education and the generational transmission of poverty. Well, those data - which were not entirely coincidental, but partly coincidental with those which the Minister of Health put forward in this House - make us point out that this is not just a strategic debate, but rather a debate on which we should somehow avoid our programmatic scales in order to try to find common points of view, common solutions or at least conclusions that would move us away from partial and incomplete positions and possibly erroneous ones. I would therefore like to propose to you that you reduce in some way the tone of your speeches or even some inappropriate words in order to seek an analysis that seeks to be shared, on which we can all or a large part agree, and that you offer us the possibility of finding answers that are sound. And not because I say it or because many organisms have mentioned it, but because the diagnosis should allow us to agree on measures that, in turn, are at least non-controversial or peaceful. I therefore understand that the fundamental thing is to make a shared diagnosis in principle. I have only one, myself, and I want to give you some thought. First, childhood is the group that is suffering the most from the consequences of the economic crisis and cuts in social aid. This is a general statement. Consequently, addressing child poverty would require addressing the problem, both from the causes of the economic crisis and from the perspective of social assistance for children. First common place. Secondly, child poverty falls within the scope of a family unit with deficiencies. Except for exceptions, there are no poor children outside a poor environment. Obviating this characterization in order to focus exclusive attention on the minor would also - and I say this with all humility - be wrong in the diagnosis. Third, education is the most powerful tool to break the cycle of transmission of poverty from parents to children. Ensuring the school success of children at risk of poverty and social exclusion is the best strategy to ensure their development. Fourth, no discrimination. I cannot imagine measures that do not address the integrity of the group of minors, regardless not only of their origin, gender or status, but also of the personal or working situation of their parents. With all due respect to the proposal, I misunderstand a measure that focuses only on employment or unemployment, when the situations described affect children whose parents may be workers or not, immigrants or not, legal or not. And there are many other reflections that I could make, but I understand that the point is to look for those common places that should allow us to focus on aids that are also shared. Surely this analysis may seem scarce to you - it may seem to me, too, on the other hand - but go ahead that my only intention with this intervention is to provoke once and for all and on a subject of such importance that in some way we change the paradigm. Forget, please, everything that separates you and talk about what you agree with, because what is hateful is that child poverty can be a source of confrontation and of majorities vis-à-vis minorities, and a reason to demonstrate the inability to reach agreements. When you agree on that purpose, in seeking common places, common diagnoses, and common purposes, count on us. For the confrontation don't count. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u189	For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olóriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u190	Good morning, Mr. President. I have been in this House for about a year, and I have participated in the Commission and in plenary discussing what is undoubtedly the highest priority in this country: child poverty. We have other priorities, no doubt, but I am sure that none of you will say that there is another more important one. We've been here a year. The municipalities, not all, have done things; the autonomous communities, not all, have done things; this Congress has done nothing, in a year it has done nothing. We talked, but he didn't do anything. Perhaps the best virtue of this proposal is that something concrete, feasible is proposed to us. A moment ago, the spokesman for the Socialist Group told us that many more things must be done. Great, but let's do it one at a time. If the Socialist Group brings forward proposals as it has said, we will approve them, but one at a time. Not too long ago in the Commission, the Socialist Group said that it would approve the proposal of the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Group. Why didn't you approve of it? Because there was a proposal - which was accepted in common - for an extraordinary fund for the autonomous communities, for all the autonomous communities, of 800 million, and it was said by the Socialist Party that if this were taken out, this would be voted on. Why do you think I did not propose the amendment today? I didn't propose it because I didn't want to, because it's important, but because this writing jumps, as it was said. If this is the problem, let's jump, let's go ahead. That's how we can build things in this country. But I don't know very well which PSOE I'm talking to, whether with the extra maximalist - I like - or with the one outside of Congress I'm talking down with the People's Party. I don't know which one's on the phone. I want it to be that of Congress, because I know, of the people I know from the Socialist Party in this Congress, of their goodwill and that we share this goal. Let's do it, let's jump, let's move on. I am sceptical that this proposal will be approved today - I would like to - but even if it is approved I am sceptical that it will appear in the next state budgets. Because there is the spending ceiling, there is Article 135 changed which does not place child poverty as a top priority, but other things. And here we are. From our point of view, one of the greatest responsibilities that Members of the Republican Left have in this House today is child poverty. They will count on us, because we are independentists, Republicans, but we are not nationalists. We cannot understand a republic that does not treat everyone equally, we cannot understand a country where we are congressmen in which not everyone is treated equally; but just as it rises, but equally overcoming the problems and contradictions that we have. There are people who confuse equity with centralism. One, who is already an age and was a child when Spain was very centralized, and was much poorer and much more unjust than today, is allowed to see that the road is never centralism; centralism is the basis of authoritarianism, centralism is the basis that allows others to do without giving explanations. Until the last moment my nation is not independent, we will be here to do our utmost with everyone, to make a better country for everyone, and no child is denied the most important thing: to have the means to be happy. Fraternity and republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u191	Thank you very much, Mr Olóriz. Mrs Heredia Martín has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I would like to say on behalf of my colleagues is that all that moves us every day is to work to improve the lives of all Spanish households. Mrs Belarra, looking at your proposal, the first thing I have to do is see where those worrying figures come from; we also have to look at the measures being taken, although you are not interested in us talking about that. We will also assess whether your measure is acceptable, because you have to know that Spain had a record figure in inequality, in poverty, in exclusion there for the years 2007 to 2011; I know that you were not here, and that didn't matter to you; nor did you govern the People's Party, therefore they didn't do anything to try to change it, but I have to tell you that on those dates 3.5 million Spaniards went to unemployment. They were the parents of many children who are now in those poverty rates to which you refer. It is therefore very important that we do not lose that perspective. I also have to tell you that after those years and many sacrifices of all we have achieved a turning point. The 2014 Survey of Living Conditions says that at last the population and social exclusion rate has fallen by 6 tenths. It is little, I agree, but there is also a rate of child poverty, in children under the age of sixteen, which has dropped by 2 points. It is therefore a turning point that gives us encouragement and tells us something very important: in these five years of the People's Party government each and every one of the measures being carried out is working. There is an important impact, because as you well know, 70% of the State's general budgets are devoted to social spending. That did not happen before, and neither did we have such important plans - you do not like to be mentioned here, but we must all know it - like the Action Plan for Social Inclusion, which contains important measures -240 in total - that are being transferred to our autonomous communities. I know you don't care about that. I also need to talk to you about the Family Support Plan: 225 measures, more than 5.4 billion euros. And of course I cannot forget a plan as important as the one that has earmarked for my community, Andalusia, 8 million euros. In 2016, EUR 48 million has been earmarked for the first social fund created by this People's Party government. Mrs Belarra, so much so that you like us to listen to you, I will ask you to know what is being done, because it is very important. You have a responsibility as a deputy, and you have to inform the citizen. He talks about all these cases, but have you been informed of all the measures taken by the municipalities, the autonomous communities and the Government of Spain? He's got that job, too. It is very important that you know what is available to inform and help these people. If we had to support this measure today, we would surely have to abolish others that are being implemented and functioning. I am talking to him, for example, about the Preparation, which is committed by the parents of these children, and which has allowed up to 77,000 people to benefit in Spain. And tax reforms, very important, don't they count? Because there are also tax reforms that pay family checks and allow over a hundred thousand families to benefit. That, too, you have to account for. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party believes that the most important thing to improve the lives of these people - let us not be fooled - is to create jobs. I tell you, I've been working at my town hall for ten years, Ecija, and no neighbor has asked me for a benefit, but a job, a job, a salary to take home. Isn't that what they ask of you? Isn't that what they ask of you? [[Applauds]] Many of you have no experience; they speak of people, but not of people who live in villages like mine. The reality is that they stop me one day yes and one day no, and I tell them with all my heart. This is the great commitment of the People's Party government: to create 20 million jobs by 2020. It's the most important thing we have to do, and that's what we're going to devote our effort to. The data says so. Here is the figure for last week's unemployment rate: from 20.9% we have gone to 18.63%. I know they don't like these figures, but that's what there is; they're figures that cheer us up and, above all, they enchant us to continue working. Besides, I'm gonna tell you something. I hope that where you already govern - you are already playing government and you know what this is about - in Cadiz, in Madrid, in Barcelona, you will fulfill as we are doing with all the Spaniards, because all the families, all those people you are talking about are already being thrown at you because you have not fulfilled your electoral promises. They're laughing at people. [[Applauds]] I should like to comment on the fact that I was surprised that citizens and the Socialist Group have tabled amendments, because they abstained from this very proposal in the Committee on Children on 30 November, and the truth is that they have not made it clear to me why they did not do so then and now. Mr. Sahuquillo, I also want to say...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u193	It has to end, Mrs. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u194	...that you speak of child ruin. I'm going to talk to you about Andalusia, my land, which hurts me. There is a ruin there with the deficit that we have in early care, in care for those children. If you have handle there, I ask you to make a great effort to change this reality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u195	Mrs. Heredia, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u196	I'm done, Mr. President. In short, what I want to say is that we all have to lift this country, and that the best way to do this is to maintain our social benefits, improve our public services and create jobs, because that is how we are going to help all those homes and all those children who are suffering right now and cannot lift their heads. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs. Heredia. I then ask Mrs Belarra Urteaga whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u198	We're negotiating a transactional. As we are voting tomorrow, we will bring it to the Bureau. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u199	You'd have to tell us if you're accepting any right now.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u200	We accept that of the Democratic Party of Catalonia and are negotiating with the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u201	The transaction may be submitted until the moment before the vote. We note that a compromise will be presented and before the vote we will see whether it has finally been presented or not. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT TO ENCOURAGE, PROMOTE AND PROTECT CULTURE AND CULTURAL INDUSTRIES IN SPAIN. [[File number 173/000011]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u202	It is now appropriate to discuss the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group into the Government's policy to promote, promote and protect culture and cultural industries in Spain. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion and of the amendment tabled, I now give the floor to Mrs Rivera de la Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. A few days ago the fifty years of the first edition of a hundred years of solitude were commemorated, and among many unforgettable protagonists who placed in that novel Gabriel García Márquez there was one that was based on a real character, who was a Barcelona bookstore called Ramon Vinyes. In the novel he appears rebaptized as the Catalan sage, and at a time in the book this man, who has a bookstore in Macondo, goes back to his home country and shouts, when he is already on the train, that the world will end when men travel in first class and their books travel in third. I think we're here for people and books to go in the same wagon. Just over a month ago we were talking about cultural challenges; we were talking about piracy, shooting, writers' pensions and we were talking about VAT. As I know that in the People's Party they do not like to talk about cultural VAT, I undertake from now on to start referring to that 21% as the VAT that supports the most popular cultural activities. I am not going to say that 21% VAT is the only problem that culture has in Spain, but it is a big problem, and I am glad that, following my colleague's question in the Committee on Culture, Mr Torres Mora, the Minister of Culture has announced in this House the immediate fulfilment of the citizens' demand contained in paragraph 89 of the investiture agreement: that in a short time the entrances of theatre, concerts, dance and circus will cease to be taxed at 21%. [[The lady]] And the Minister has said something else - and I quote textually -: when we meet the deficit path we will also lower VAT on film tickets. That could happen at the end of this year. Finally, there has been a formal deadline or a specific date for this reduction of the cinema VAT that the sector has been waiting for for for a very long time. I know that in this motion for the People's Parliamentary Group there was a problem that 21% of what we were talking about. That is why I am offering from this rostrum to the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group to draft a compromise amendment containing the words spoken by the minister in this House. The purpose of this motion is for this Parliament to endorse with its votes a number of challenges that I am sure we all care about. I do not imagine anyone in this Chamber who does not aspire to increase the reading rate in Spain; 40% of Spaniards never read. I do not imagine anyone in this Chamber who does not want to guarantee the right of creators to continue working beyond retirement in order to complete pensions that are sometimes miserable. We agree that the authors should be protected against intellectual exploitation. We all want the audiovisual sector to be consolidated and I am sure that we all urgently need agreement on the issue of private copying compensation. Also, of course, I know that many of you want VAT applied to cinema, dance, music or theatre not to be taxed at the maximum rate. Strong cultural policies are a message to society and also to the world. They are a message that tells us and tells others that we are concerned about our culture. In the country of Cervantes, Lope, Picasso, Pardo Bazán, Master Mateo, Gaudí, Lorca and Buñuel, María Moliner, Velázquez, Berlanga or Joaquín Rodrigo the culture is our oil. Not only do we have to take care of it, but it also has to be noticed that we do, and that involves budgetary efforts. [[Applauds]] Culture cannot be treated as a commodity and cultural policy cannot be dictated by the Ministry of Finance. Do you imagine that at the time of Philip IV a minister of finance would have dedicated himself to raking with Velázquez, for example? Spain is experiencing an exceptional moment in terms of creativity. Consider the excellent harvest of Spanish cinema in these years of difficulties. A short made in Spain can win an Academy Oscar. The Spanish-invoiced El Bosco documentary fills rooms in France. The books of our authors copy the lists of best sellers in and out of the country. Our animation studios are required by international producers. Video game companies look at developers trained here. Imagine now that our audiovisual, our lyrics or our theatre also received a push from the State Administration. We have talent, but we have to create an ecosystem that lets it grow. I've been in politics for a little over a year. For two decades I have seen men and women working against wind and tide sustained only by the passion to create. Let me remind you today in this House of all the actors who in recent years tried without charge to be able to premier a function, of small producers who mortgaged their houses to raise a film or a play, of writers who charged ridiculous advances for a novel and two days before it was released they saw it hung without their consent on an illegal page. And since science is also a form of art, they're going to let me remember those scientists who fight from their laboratories against alzheimer or cancer and, at the same time, against the shameful shortage of material means to develop their work. [[Applauds]] Science and the arts need institutional support, perhaps because we often do not understand the obligation to contribute to the creation of a material scaffolding that gives them coverage. Gradually, a strange separation between society and creators has been consummated. We are just proud of our athletes, for example, but I fear that sometimes we do not value the work of those who believe, write or compose in the same way. Betting on the cultural industry is a complicated challenge. Yesterday the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport recalled that General Patton had taken with two divisions the city of Tréveris, although the military high command reminded him that it was impossible to do so with less than four. I belong to a party that doesn't think there are impossible things, just difficult things. This is the country of Don Quixote willing to face only a legion of giants; sharing country with Don Alonso Quixano legitimizes us to engage in battles of uncertain end. Let me remind you of a hundred years of loneliness, where an old colonel died after having fought thirty-two wars and lost them all. This war can be won and, in addition, we would all win it. I ask you, therefore, to let this motion proceed from the assurance that, despite any ideological discrepancy, there are many things in which we agree; for example, at the peak of that wise Catalan who refused to travel separate from his books. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u204	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rivera de la Cruz. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, since Compromís we have understood culture as an indispensable instrument for the development of the intellectual powers of individuals, for their moral elevation, for integration, for cohesion. We also understand culture as an element for the formation of the identity of peoples, of the set of knowledge, ideas, traditions and customs that characterize the territories. I wonder, addressing this now empty government blue bank, if it seems to you this, the culture, the formation of our characteristics as a society, a luxury asset, because, if so, then we have a very serious problem. We must not go on for another minute keeping the VAT rate for cinema, theatre, live shows at 21%. Directive 112/2006 on the common system of value added tax provides that a reduced rate on cultural services, such as the right of access to shows, theatres, fairs and the like, should be considered when transposing it to the Member States of the Union. Ten years later, we still do not comply with European legislation once again, and we are still applying an exacerbation rate of 21% today. The numerical data that show the enormous damage that this very high tax type is causing, because it is enough common sense to see it, it is enough to walk through the streets of our localities to see cinemas closed, theatre spaces malliving with voluntarism. We will support this motion by further arguing that cultural services must be taxed with a super-reduced rate for their promotion and consumption by all citizens regardless of their income or economic-social status, and for this we have tabled an amendment because we want our cultural industries to be consolidated at once. We have also amended other aspects of the motion. We want the contractual framework for social security and the taxation of workers in the cultural and creative sector to be regulated. We must also address the serious problem of the precariousness of the cultural sector and therefore the whole of the administrations have a duty to dignify the work of the people employed and also to be efficient in the management of intellectual creations. We must stop thinking about culture in a one-way way too. We must understand the value of the diversity of expressions and, of course, we must also resolutely promote the creativity of people with functional diversity or different capacities, because for this reason culture can become what it belongs to, a true instrument for integration without exclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u206	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Rivera, we share the content of the motion before us, but, as you have seen, we have tabled some amendments which seek to highlight some issues which the motion in our view does not finish addressing adequately. On the one hand, we must remember that cultural policy in Spain today falls within the competence of the autonomous communities and that, therefore, in any motion we make in this House we must respect that competitive framework and that is why we have tabled some amendments that go in that direction. I'm sure you won't have a problem accepting them. At the same time, we wanted to remind you that Spain does not speak just one language, but a number of languages - Catalan, Basque and Galician - are spoken, and it would be good if the Government's cultural promotion policy also took into account this linguistic plurality of the Spanish State. I am sure that is also an amendment that you can accept. We have also raised an agenda of questions - I am sure that Citizens also share it because we have been able to check it in some Committees - that complement the content of their petitum. We have raised the need to make progress in updating our intellectual property regulations. There are mandates that the government must fulfil in this area; there is a European scenario that forces us to modernise our intellectual property legislation. In any policy in which we seek to strengthen the capacity of the cultural industry to develop serious offers, good regulation of intellectual property seems essential to us. At the same time, we remind you that there is a compromise - there is a subcommittee in progress - on the status of the creator. It would be good to reiterate that commitment. We also insist on the need for a good law of patronage. It is very difficult, if not impossible, for the cultural industry to develop without a modern law of sponsorship, in line, for example, with French and Italian legislation. I believe that these will be issues that are incorporated into your text. Finally, I would like to share with other speakers and with you that it is essential that today we reiterate the House's commitment to a VAT as God commands for the film and theatre sector. There you will count on our absolutely enthusiastic support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. On behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u209	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to the motion put by the Citizens' Group on cultural policy or non-cultural policy, we obviously agree quite well with the root of the argument and analysis which it makes, in the Government's neglect of cultural creation, of the needs of the creators, producers and distributors, to whose problems VAT has been added. The Citizens' Group proposes a series of measures to alleviate this complicated situation that many sectors of culture - as I said, creators, managers, etc. - suffer. Some of them seem good to my group, even some of them have been proposed by us other times, others seem to us to be well-intentioned and others I believe are escaping from the scope that we have. In addition, Mrs Rivera in her speech presented this umbrella of culture as if everything she said was Spanish culture, even when Spain did not exist, but it doesn't matter. In this regard, the representatives of the Government of the State have to make certain commitments to cultural matters that clearly fall within their competence. The PNV has always asked for VAT to be reduced. It's a necessary step. VAT is drowning in many sectors. It is a decision that the Government has taken and that is more damaging than it intends to resolve. This very morning I've been with film directors. Here no one is saying that the measure that Montoro has taken has benefited them and that it has been wonderful. I do not know who it has benefited, but not the cultural sector, because it has not benefited entrepreneurs and, moreover, it has discouraged the public, which is the worst thing that can happen to us in cultural matters. When you do not take care of something so fragile and, in addition, take measures to discourage it, the situation is complicated. And, in the end, what we get is that some big people come from outside who can with everything, that they set up their monopolies in this matter and let's all end up falling into the same cultural routine, which sometimes has little culture. Moreover, this economic measure is not in line with the measures that European countries around us have taken in this area, which truly protect the weakest, and in this case culture is the weakest. He said that there are other measures that are well-intentioned, but we believe that they cannot have overcapacity, such as the prosecutor's office he proposes, among other things. But they are not issues that cause us excessive noise either. On the educational issue - fellow Campuzano has also commented - we have to take into account where we are, what is our competence and what is not our competence. The subject of education is a pure and hard autonomic subject, such as culture. In that sense, we cannot say from here what the autonomous communities have to do or how the campaigns have to be done by the autonomous communities or educational institutions of the autonomous communities. It's not up to us. We cannot and must not do it. What's more, I think they do it and those who don't do it have to tell them they don't, but we're not a superior mother who has to say with her finger how things have to be done by those who have to do them. Another issue is that some people who are here like how they do it. Therefore, let us be clear what is ours and what is not ours. We have included an amendment, which I do not yet know whether the author has accepted it or not, which we considered appropriate to include because, in this kind of decalogue of cultural claims, if we are so concerned about audiovisual production, cinematographic production, you will certainly agree, gentlemen of Citizens, that these productions - even more so if they are made in recognized languages in the State that are not the Castilian, that is, the Basque, Catalan and Galician - have aid from the ministry, as the Film Act says, and that they have been without financial resources for several years. They started with endowments, but then they went down until that endowment disappeared. We therefore believe that it is on the one hand mandatory for the Government to comply with what its own laws say and, on the other hand, taking into account how difficult it is to deal with such production - film production, for example - in addition, if cultural commitment is acquired, such as that of rolling in Basque, Catalan or Galician, for example, because it is even more difficult to cope without public aid. We believe that it is fair that this is being done and we believe that it is a good thing that this amendment could be included in the motion that Citizens have put forward. Let us hope that it will be adopted and that the proposing party will take on this amendment for itself. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u210	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja i Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether you will agree with me or not, but as I was reading the motion I was under the impression that it was more than a decalogue motion, an omnibus motion, and that it was in a hurry and not without a certain amount of opportunism. I will explain to myself, taking into account the timing of some of the initiatives taken which affect precisely the great debates which are currently very much present in the cultural sector, such as the working and fiscal framework of cultural workers or the very question of intellectual property, it is surprising how you are putting these issues forward with partial initiatives drawn from proposals still under discussion in the same Commission; in other cases, with very generic initiatives which in many cases are not simply singing in the sun; and, all too often, by the omission of autonomous competences, as has been mentioned here. In fact, the initiatives presented reflect, although in a very partial way - we believe - some of the main proposals discussed in the Committee on Culture, this and the previous parliamentary term; proposals put forward by various parliamentary groups which have been dealt with in different ways. Perhaps these haste and, above all, the need to capitalise on the issues discussed in the Commission in a single motion, give that sense of superficiality in the treatment of issues that need much more in-depth prior debate. It's what they say that whoever covers a lot doesn't get too tight. That would have no more effect if it were not because the last point was about ensuring resources. And I wonder, exactly what resources? Do you not think that perhaps it would have been more productive to focus on each of the initiatives they have put forward and, after a real debate with the consensus of the cultural sector, to put forward initiatives, this time, much more concrete and then allocate a budget? Please note that this is already a matter of method. You see that my criticism does not focus so much on the content of the initiatives, that they are in themselves key in the sector and that we share the majority of them, as to how these initiatives should be addressed. For example, what need today was there to include initiatives such as ensuring that creators could reconcile the recovery of the retirement pension with the remunerated exercise of their creative activity, or to regulate compensation to the author for private copying when, precisely tomorrow, we are going to approve a subcommittee on the status of the artist, which will deal with these issues from a much broader and more cross-cutting perspective? In any case, I repeat, it is rather a matter of forms and also a real will or not to seek consensus. On the other hand, we would like to acknowledge this, we welcome the fact that it has finally become a demand, almost unanimous among all groups, for the proposal to reduce the VAT rates for cultural activities which are taxed at 21%: live shows, cinemas and theatres. In fact, this has been a claim in which our group has been insisting since the same time that in July 2012 VAT rates were changed. In the previous legislature we were the only ones who proposed that reduction. We believe that this is a successful initiative and it is time to put it forward. With regard to the amendments tabled, we have focused essentially on two points. One, the competition issue, to which other groups have referred, taking into account the full competence of the autonomous communities in the field of culture and education. I am talking about education and not just culture when, for example, a plan to promote reading and the book is proposed. Secondly, by insisting on the will of consensus to which I referred earlier, we believe that it is necessary to solve the problem of compensation for private copying, counting not only on the collaboration of the management entities, as they have pointed out, but also with the cultural sector and its different social actors, among others the trade union organizations and organizations and associations defending the authors. In conclusion, I think we should be much more scrupulous when we deal with issues that are so sensitive to the sector and not dispatch them in such a generic way and without the consensus of society. I therefore propose from here to work on the detailed initiative on an initiative without raising, as we have done here, such a generic and unspecific decalogue motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u212	Thank you very much, Mr Eritja i Ciuro. On behalf of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Maura Zorita has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not customary for us to discuss two cultural proposals in the same week, today this motion, which my group does not fully share but which we sincerely thank, and tomorrow the approval of a subcommittee for the drawing up of a statute for the artist and for the workers of culture, on a proposal first of all for us and then also for the Committee on Culture. Therefore, this is a good week for culture, but also for that very reason it is a good week for self-criticism. We clearly talk little about culture. In this House it is difficult not to conceive of culture as a peripheral or cosmetic matter. That this trend changes is the responsibility of the Government in the first place, but also of all parliamentary groups, starting with mine. Culture is a right, it is a common good of all citizens and it is a fundamental productive sector, with hundreds of thousands of workers, many of them precarious, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed. For these reasons it is the duty and responsibility of any Government to push projects and make public policies so that culture is accessible, diverse, participatory and sustainable, because culture, Mr Méndez de Vigo - unfortunately I cannot directly ask you - can and must be cared for, listened to and pushed, but by definition cannot be governed or planned. It offered us this morning - it has surprised me - an opiate definition of culture, according to which the function of art, of cinema in this case, is to make us forget the price of the bill of light or the rise of any other aspect of our daily life. Obviously, culture or art are not that. Art is traditionally a promise of happiness and under no circumstances a removal. And also because culture, Mr Montoro - to whom I cannot ask directly - although we also consume it, is not a commodity anymore, but the common space of consensus and conflict in which we live and in which we build the diversity of our relations and our individual and collective identities. Without culture we would not even be a society, and there is no doubt that where there is no society, there is no need for finance and public service ministers. Going to the motion we are discussing today, it brings together up to nine different aspects of culture, some very relevant, some previously approved in the Commission, some of which are programmatically more indebt and some of which appear in the text in an inexact way. I will therefore make a very brief tour of his nine points. It seems to us fundamental and we share the need to urgently reduce VAT for live shows and cinemas and theatres. Anything else would be incomprehensible. We strongly advocate ensuring that creators are able to match the payment of their pension with the remunerated exercise of their creative activity. We agree with the proposing group in supporting audiovisual, but not only in the field of production, we must support production, distribution and exhibition. Without exhibition spaces, production remains blind and, without good distribution, production is lost along the way. We certainly consider it necessary to have a plan to promote reading and the book, but we need that plan to be articulated by a recovered General Directorate of the Book, Archives and Libraries, mysteriously disappeared during the 10th Legislature. We have doubts, ladies and gentlemen, about the intellectual property proposals. We must certainly resolve the maze of private copying compensation, which is one of the most flagrant examples of mismanagement I know, not to say that it is a genuine nonsense of the People's Party. It must be resolved, but addressing the underlying problems. We will not move forward if we maintain an anachronistic definition of private copying, rather typical of the times when we recorded TV movies on VHS or made 'various' tapes for our partners, friends or friends. Continuing with intellectual property, we're going to need a new LPI sooner than later. A new social pact in the field of intellectual property must be put in place, a balanced model must be achieved that offers authors fair remuneration, bets on legal platforms for access to digital cultural works and content, guarantees citizens' access to culture and, lastly, undermines the indispensable sustainability of rights holders, cultural industries and technological enterprises. Without this model, the fifth point of the motion is inadequate, narrowly and frankly removed from the continuous transformations of the social place of culture. The sixth point - I am finishing, Madam President - directly suggests to us an exhibition of fireworks in one of those magical or chamonic rainy days mentioned recently by Mr Rajoy, days in which, by the way, precisely because of the rain, he is doing very well in the cinema, at home reading or playing a video game. I'm done. Mr Méndez de Vigo, there are valuable elements in this motion and in the subcommittee that we will vote on and that we hope to adopt tomorrow, and much more valuable things to come. You know that we will be demanding but that also, because we take culture seriously, we will facilitate all the necessary agreements to make culture in Spain more accessible, more diverse and more sustainable. You know there's no excuse this time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Maura Zorita. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mr Pons Sampietro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u215	Thank you, President. First, the citizen's companion has cited a hundred years of loneliness. I do not know if it has been a hundred, but five have been of abandonment and maltreatment of culture. Therefore, I came to the hair to quote a hundred years of loneliness. Post-Battle Landscape: We are in a situation where the sector has had a bad time, anyone who has talked to someone who has a cinema, who has the passion to edit books, will see that he has suffered. But let's see the good part, there are 485,000 jobs in this country, 108,000 companies, it represents almost 4% of GDP. We do not reach 8% of the United Kingdom, nor 12% of the United States, but it is an opportunity. I believe that there is a way to go and that the motion arising from the inquiry is an example of a possible change of direction. The Socialist Group supports the spirit of this motion and believes that the points of the motion I would say are in the right direction, which are major backbones for the future. We have made two amendments, one to reduce VAT and the other to make the films commission - as Mr Campuzano said - the competent ones in the communities to make Spain a television set. I'll just make a few small arguments. Mr. Maura said there's no talk of culture and I think he's right, we should talk all the time about culture. I'll make some reflections to link up with your interpellation and motion. The French Minister of Culture, whom I believe is the best known at European level now that it is very easy to establish borders in Europe and it is difficult to talk about this Europe, said in 1983 that there were two things that could not be done with culture; one that cannot be belligerent, and another that cannot be indifferent. He defended it because one cannot be indifferent or belligerent with culture for a long time because, after all, culture is life itself. The background of the motion swings between two concepts that the minister coined at the time. After years of crisis in which culture cannot be treated any more from indifference and not from belligerence or, if you want, otherwise, what you present today reflects the acquis, the heritage of recent years towards culture, sectors and cultural industries. What the motion suggests is clearly a change of direction; it advises a change of orientation and, of course, give more weight to culture, which must be cross-cutting - we said earlier - because it is neither of a ministry nor of a sector and it is also not something solely related to the public. Culture must always be at the forefront of acts and words - the minister said so - and unfortunately it has not been so. That goes through working from at least three ministries. We would have to work on this motion with Industry, with Finance and with Culture. That is what the sector is asking to move forward and work with the nine points to which the motion refers, which, as I said before, are great vectors. We also have to make a commitment to culture - and I'm going back to what Mr Maura said - starting with the president. He said in the investiture that in order to know the policies of the People's Party we would have to go to the hemeroteca. I have bothered to go to the hemerotheque on August 30 and culture appears from page 27 generically and vaguely. Let us therefore work all the groups in this House to ensure that this does not happen in the future and is in the beginning, in the middle and in the end. It is a good day to show that there is a will to be corrected, to agree and to reinforce the axes of this motion. I've divided it into three points - I'm not going to list the nine. If we want to strengthen cultural and creative policies and industries, we have to change the belligerence, as I said, by collaboration, and that goes by lowering cultural VAT. I'm telling you now, not by episodes, not by sectors. We have made an amendment at the same time. Mr Torres Mora also told the minister this morning. Today there is a new opportunity - as Serrat said, today can be a great day - to support a sector that globally works because it moves $2.25 billion a year, generates 30 million jobs and accounts for 3% of GDP. Let's get in that emergent car. The truth must be said; VAT was more a political measure than a collection measure. The Socialist Group is again calling for VAT to be reduced here; let us not wait another day. In the great week of the Goyas we cannot tell the film industry that it has to keep waiting. In conclusion, Madam President, if we are to strengthen the cultural and creative industries, we must have mechanisms, as the motion says, that will enable us to combat it, but that will also protect industry and the creators. We need to protect, promote and also provide security. I wanted to end with a part of the budget because the Minister of the Interior has frightened me by making us doubt whether there will be budgets or not, but it would be good if the last part of the motion were because, if there are only words, politics can be done very few. Therefore, all the support for these budgetary policies to increase this year following the hacks of recent years and we can see those objectives being met. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Pons. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs García-Pelayo Jurado.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all - some Members of this House have already referred to this - this plenary is finally going to approve the creation of a subcommittee to draw up the status of the artist and the creator. I want my first words to be to thank and acknowledge on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group the work of the various associations, federations and the Platform in Defense of Culture all the work they have done over the years; firstly, by making contributions but, above all, by offering dialogue. It will be an honour for the People's Parliamentary Group to participate in the work of that subcommission. It is a commitment that we make in our Government programme and, of course, it is a pleasure to see that it will be fulfilled. I know that among all of us we will get the status that culture deserves and that artists and creators need. With regard to the motion that the Citizens' Group is bringing to us today, I would first of all like to thank you for your willingness to compromise. A will that is well received by this group, but I would like to do some maths. The spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group has spoken of the situation of abandonment of culture and in his explanatory statement they speak of the calamitous situation of culture. I believe that these statements are based on data that are not correct. They have data that doesn't respond to reality because I don't even want to think it comes out of bad faith. I believe that it is neither calamitous nor coming from the situation of abandonment that cultural jobs have grown in recent years in more than 4,000 people nor that the number of cultural enterprises has grown between 2014 and 2015 in more than 5,000. Nor do I think it is a bad data, for example, that the publishing sector grew by 3% in 2016, that there is greater consumption in culture - the 8% increase in visits to museums tells us so - or, for example, that the collection of Spanish films abroad has grown by 5%. Therefore, of calamitous situation nothing; in any case, hopeful and exciting situation. Is there more to be done? Of course I do, I always say. Do we have to work more, do we have to get more jobs, more businesses and more benefit for them? Of course it is, but it cannot be said that nothing is being done, that there is abandonment or that the situation is calamitous. [[The lady]] It has come to be said that budgets are cut every year. Since governing the People's Party, in the last three years the budgets of Culture have grown by 85 million euros. Do they have to increase further? Of course, yes and this group is the first to defend it, but the truth, Mr Socialist Group spokesman, is that during the socialist stage - that stage of the Champions League - the budgets of Culture have lost in the last three years 120 million euros. Therefore, do not give lessons; let us unite our forces, let us unite our proposals to work for culture and let us not turn culture into a battlefield, because that is precisely what our artists and creators do not need. By entering into the substance of the motion itself, I would like to say to you that, of course, the Group of the European People's Party agrees almost 100% with the proposals they make. Why? Because the motion is a copy or a transcript of the commitments made by the Minister of Culture on 29 November in the Committee on Culture. Each and every commitment is incorporated here, even some have been left out, such as the Culture 2020 Plan, the sponsorship law, media awareness campaigns or the transposition of two directives that we have pending. The minister committed more than the motion collects and, of course, we have to subscribe to everything that is collected here. With regard to the VAT you call cultural, I want to tell you something that the minister has made very clear this morning. The commitment made in point 89 of the agreement with Citizens to reduce the VAT on live performances to 10% will be fulfilled. The minister has promised this morning that he will continue to work on the reduction of VAT on cinema and that at the moment when the deficit path allows him to go down as well. As you will understand, the People's Group is the first to be aware of the need for such a reduction; we are the first interested ones to be reduced. We are not committed to maintaining a VAT when we are the first interested ones to come down; firstly, because we believe that taxes should not go up but have to go down; and secondly, because we make a firm bet for the defense of culture and of the creators in our country. In relation to the other matters they're moving, I want to tell you that we're already working on piracy. The minister committed new measures. I have alluded to all the issues that they move and that we subscribe to 100 per cent, but I would like to tell you that the important thing is that they are commitments of the Government that will soon become reality. I conclude, Madam President, by appealing again to consensus, by appealing to the will of all, by calling for us to truly unite our hands in defence of culture. I have said this before; the statute that the creators want must be the best statute, the statute that they have been claiming for many years and the one they need. Let's work on it. I think it is going to be a good field of dialogue and negotiation for all groups and we will finally make culture take the place it deserves; something which for the Government is already a matter of state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u218	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Rivera de la Cruz whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u219	Madam President, we are negotiating a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u220	Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE APPLICATION OF THE GAST RULE TO LOCAL ENTITIES. [[File number 173/000012]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u221	We are now discussing the motion for urgent questioning by the Socialist Group on the application of the expenditure rule to local authorities. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of it, Mr Pradas Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u222	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want my first words to be to recognize once again the work of the more than 67,000 mayors and councillors throughout the geography of our country in their 8,125 municipalities; a work that they do day-to-day, quiet and often disinterested work, and that they have had to suffer a bad press as a result of the prolegomems of a local reform that, in order to justify it, has wanted to focus precisely on the salaries of mayors and councillors. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all filled with the word that this should be the legislature of dialogue, of agreement. Mr Montoro does not miss any occasion in his appearances - he already has two in this year - to say that in fiscal matters we are going to approve what we decide among all the groups in this House, no more or less. Well, with this motion, the Socialist Parliamentary Group claims that the groups represented here begin to reverse the great injustice that this House committed by adopting, at the request of the Government, the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Government, as well as all those previous and subsequent provisions that have been drawn up and that have called into question, nothing more and nothing less, than the principle of local autonomy. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, passed a law that has just turned three years old without listening to the majority of the mayors, that has contributed nothing good to the local corporations and that has placed the municipalities in a situation of inequality and servitude in relation to the rest of the public administrations. And that, ladies and gentlemen, has not been effective in combating the crisis, nor has it been fair to the neighbours of the municipalities of our country. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are going to work in this legislature to repeal the perverse effects of that local counter-reform and we are going to seek the complicity of the rest of the political forces of this House to push from this new parliamentary reality a new law on the basis of local rule that clearly determines the competences and a law on local finances that ensures its financing, as well as immediately address simultaneously in the political framework the horizon of what must be local financing and autonomous financing. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, with the introduction of this motion, the Socialists want to urge the Government, first of all, to carry out a review of the design and application of the expenditure rule, following international best practices and taking into account criteria for the sustainability of public accounts over the long cycle. The rigid and automatic application of the spending rule is penalizing especially local corporations. The totality of the municipalities of Spain has maintained a budgetary surplus from 2012 to the present day and since that same year the municipal debt of the municipalities has fallen steadily, being the only sector of the public administration in which this circumstance occurs. In this situation of positive developments in the consolidation of municipal public accounts, the requirement of strict and automatic compliance with the spending rule is generating positive cash balances, i.e. surplus in many local corporations, and constraining, beyond reasonableness, the capacity of numerous municipalities to meet the enormous social needs. Mrs. Heredia used to say that people go to town halls to ask for work. Indeed, and it is very difficult to explain to them that there is no work and that you have two or three or fifteen million euros in the bank that you cannot use, despite having surplus, in employment programs. Mrs Heredia, who so much likes to speak ill of her land, could make some effort in the spare time to convince the Government to try, in this case, to adopt this measure that we are proposing. Secondly, we propose to modulate the current application of this expenditure rule in local entities presenting sound public accounts within the framework of a comprehensive analysis of the fiscal and financial developments of the municipalities. At this time, the local administration has become the most compliant administration. The surplus of local governments contributes to the whole of the half-point State of gross domestic product; it also meets the expenditure ceiling, pays its suppliers on time and is the only Administration that has met, as I said before, with this circumstance. Why then continue chasing her and punishing her? Thirdly, we propose a special review of the application of the expenditure rule in order to enable local authorities to invest their surplus to boost priority investments and employment plans. In short, we plan to allow local entities to reinvest the surplus of 2017 without the need to generate new revenue for the same amount. It is therefore essential for the Government to meet the demands of all the municipalities and, as the EMFF has proposed, to allow them to use the surplus, which this year is around more than €4.5 billion. The time has come for the Government of Spain to be sensitive and to really listen to the demands of the municipalities, whose demands are just, reasonable and necessary. Next week, I believe that on Monday, there will be a meeting between the President of the FEMP and the Vice-President, Mrs Sáenz de Santamaría. There they will have a new opportunity from the Government to take advantage of that meeting, as I said, to try to resolve this demand from the mayors. Finally, I would remind you that the Committee on Finance and the Civil Service - that is, all the groups in this House - approved a GNP, presented by the Socialist Group, in which we urged the Government to analyse the impact of the financial cost borne by local authorities in order to drive a reduction in the costs and the consolidation of municipal debt, especially with regard to the Supplier Plan. Exhausted by the two years of lack since August, many municipalities cannot face the sum of capital plus interest and that will mean - it is already assuming - a reduction in staff, a suppression of services, an increase in public fees and prices and the impossibility of making investments productively and generating jobs. In the face of this situation, the Government cannot silence itself for an answer and look elsewhere. Socialists insist that it is necessary to extend the repayment period, in accordance with the financial circumstances of the local authorities. I finish with my first words. Listen from the government to the mayors. We need a political and legislative framework that strengthens local autonomy, and allow me the license of a mayor who was: There is no way to municipalism; municipalism is the way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u223	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u224	Thank you very much, Madam President. Since 2010, in which the Socialist Party was in government and some cuts were initiated, a very clear strategy began, a strategy of constitutionalizing an ideology in the form of constitutional reforms such as article 135, which would be followed by the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability - recently amended in this Chamber - and many other laws aimed fundamentally, as I said, at making a very determined ideology - the ideology of austerity, of fiscal consolidation - the only possible alternative, the only option of economic management in our country. The People's Party has led him to a rajatabla in his years of absolute majority government and has ultimately led to the cancellation of political activity to local entities, autonomous communities and even in many cases to the Government itself. In this way, it has been put on a straitjacket to the policy itself in order, ultimately, to serve financial interests, which were the main beneficiaries of maintaining such strategies, not only because the reform of the Constitution, article 135, prioritized the payment of debt, but also because even minor regulations, such as the Supplier Plan, were primarily intended to serve as a business for financial institutions, without having any impact on better policy management in local entities or on State management. Quite the contrary; we have met some truly creepy nonsense. This motion has good intentions; to begin with, the intention to focus on a certain problem, that of the irrationality of the spending rule approved by the People's Party, but I insist that it belongs to a larger universe, which is to constitutionalize an ideology, which we believe in its daily practice means cuts for the majority and impoverishment for the popular classes. I refer to the data. I do not have time to abound in it, but many examples have been set throughout today and in previous days. When we talk about irrationality we refer, for example, to the fact - the spokesman of the Socialist Group has mentioned earlier - that many municipalities in our country have surplus and yet cannot use it to generate employment or to meet the most basic needs of citizens, knowing that local entities are the most immediate public service that citizens have and that they would therefore have to be the most helpful. However, what they have is a straitjacket without any economic logic. But it is not only that there are municipalities that have surplus and that allocate the money to pay debt instead of generating employment, but there are also municipalities that have no debt and that have to immobilize the money despite having surplus. Double irrationality. A concrete example that we always put because we know him firsthand in this confederal group is that of the City Council of Madrid. This municipality, where it governs the candidacy of popular unity Now Madrid, has 1.1 billion euros of surplus and has reduced the debt by 32% in the last two years; however, it is directly threatened by the Ministry of Finance for having exceeded the rule of spending by 16 million euros, which have been destined to generate jobs. The Minister of Finance, Mr Montoro, has sent a letter threatening with the disqualification of the Councillor of Economy of Madrid for doing a policy that has managed to reduce the debt, the deficit, and go directly to a surplus of 1.1 billion euros. He's found himself directly with that threat. This is in stark contrast to the policy of the People's Party in recent years. Mr Montoro, for example, is responsible for exceeding the 2015 spending rule by more than EUR 4 billion and, as I know - we asked him the other day and he did not answer us - he has not sent himself a letter threatening his disqualification for such a size disaster. [[Applauds]] As this - not only the rule of spending - should be absolutely reconsidered, as this has to do with the Financial Stability Act - I have to say, by the way, to the Socialist Group and to Citizens who had the opportunity to amend it and that if we cannot use the surpluses of the municipalities it is because they did not want to approve our amendments just a few months ago in this Congress - we support points 3 and 4 of this motion, not being able to support in any case points 1 and 2, which ultimately continue to defend the validity of the rule of spending as an instrument; an instrument which we believe to be harmful, harmful, and which must be changed with much more radicality than what the motion proposes. Paradoxically, we are more in agreement with the speech by the spokesman for the Socialist Group in his question, which was much more ambitious than what has appeared in the wording today. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u225	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Marí Bosó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u226	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was going to start my speech in another way, Mr Pradas, but I cannot overlook the reference you made to my colleague Silvia Heredia, bearing in mind that the government of the community where she lives has left God's hand to the mayors in terms of active employment policies. Nor can I overlook him saying that the People's Party government does not listen to the mayors. Mr Pradas, if I told you the hours of every day and every night since May 2011, in the year 2012 and in 2013 helping, supporting and working with the mayors of this country to recover the local estates, you would not say what you have just said at this headquarters. [[Applauds]] In the interpellation he brings to mind the motion that we are now debating, the Minister of Finance outlined the commitment of the Government of the nation to proceed, through political negotiation, to the revision of the expenditure rule throughout this exercise. The Government has already taken steps in that direction. First, he attended the Ecofin debate on 5 and 6 December, analysing the need to reduce the complexity of the expenditure rule indicator under the fiscal supervision rules, and within the National Commission for Local Administration, agreeing to establish a working group composed of the Government, the Autonomous Communities and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces to review the expenditure rule in this first half of all public administrations and not just local authorities. In the previous question, the Minister of Finance also expressed his wish that the Socialist Parliamentary Group should draft its motion in terms that would allow us all to agree. I already know that you, Mr Pradas, are not here to please the Minister of Finance, but I do think you should please your own party, because it was with the representatives of your party on the National Commission of Local Administration that we agreed to make a working group to review the spending rule, that the AIReF exercises control over the study to be carried out and that the government put the conclusions into a real decree law. Therefore, Your Honor, it is not acceptable for you to raise in your motion issues that are so diverse from those agreed with your own party. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is to agree on the benefit of better public administrations and a better application of the expenditure rule. That is why the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress has offered you some amendments and a compromise text. These are the coincidences that we find: let us make a study group to review the expenditure rule, let us carry out that review within this year and also study the costs of the Supplier Payment Fund. These are the coincidences that we detect, but we do not agree - it is true that we must maintain a space in which there may be no coincidence - in returning to the amendment of the Stability Act that the Socialist Government operated in 2006, when fiscal discipline was abandoned to introduce an important margin of political discretion that sought greater flexibility to legitimize the greater public deficit. In his motion, with the euphemisms regarding the criteria of sustainability of the accounts throughout the cycle or that the administrations present healthy accounts according to the cyclical position of the economy, on the bottom what it beats is to return to the reform that you did in the Stability Act in 2006. We agree on that, Your Honor, and I believe it is legitimate to maintain that space of discrepancy. But if I hurry, I'll tell you more. We do not agree on that, when we should actually agree because the spending rule has something very Keynesian that you always forget, and it is that by allowing the growth of public spending at the same rate as GDP growth occurs in the medium term, what contributes to the spending rule at the time of recovery and growth is to make a mattress in public administrations that allows them to cope with times of crisis. This is the part of Keynes that you threw away in 2006 and the part that you claim to throw away now, and that's how our hair looked in 2006 but we shouldn't look like that right now. Your Honor, this is the extended hand that the Minister of Finance extended and that we also extend today from the People's Parliamentary Group with the compromise amendment that we have put before you, because we do it without reproach, to coincide for the benefit of our best public administrations and to coincide for the benefit of all. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u228	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This motion gives us the opportunity to recall what was the wrong response to the so-called great recession, to the crisis, by the European Union and the most ultra-liberal sectors, among which was the Government of Spain. It is about blaming public administrations, harming and basically blaming local corporations and autonomous administrations, which are the ones with the most responsibilities. Do you know what the consequences were? That now we have to suffer the scandal that, when there are more needs, when very harsh living conditions have lasted of many people who live precisely in their municipalities and whose first reference are the municipalities, while that happens, in the City of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, for example, there are 30 million euros dead of laughter, proving that the policies were wrong and that the victims were not actually responsible for the crisis, but precisely that, victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u229	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u230	Thank you, Madam President. All of us who have been mayors or councillors know what a city council is: it is the place where people go when they don't know where to go, when they cut off the light, when they cut off the water, when you have a drug addict child, when you have any problems. In the time of crisis the municipalities have been fundamental in this country. What makes no sense at this time is that it is equal to the non-compliances and the compliances. What cannot be done is that there is a surplus, that there is money, that there are millions in current accounts, that there is an end to social emergency aid in a town hall and that you have to tell a neighbor; and it cannot be that this happens especially in small towns, where you know even the money that is held in the bank's account. It is absurd, when there is unemployment, that millions should be taken into account when housing could be rehabilitated. In addition, there is a very important issue, which is the following: for European projects co-financing is often needed and the municipalities cannot go to the calls because they do not have the start of that investment, because the city has to make its contribution. Therefore, it makes no sense for the above to happen given the circumstances of the citizens of this country and the municipalities, when we are also saying that in the healed the surplus can be devoted to social emergencies or to certain investments. That is why I am going to support this proposal, but I think it is poor, weak and insufficient and I agree with Mr Garzón, because I understand that it could have been broader and more along the lines of the amendment that we had tabled. However, I will support it in the line of consensus, because in any case I consider it a step forward. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u232	Thank you very much, Madam President. Those of us who come from municipal politics know this; if you can apply this phrase of paying righteous for sinners in some sense it is precisely in this matter, in that of the rule of spending, that is an absolutely unfair situation that is imposed on the municipalities. It's a corset, a straitjacket that handles town halls and steals their autonomy. It does not matter that good management is done, that debt has been reduced to reasonable levels; it does not matter that most municipalities have surpluses; it does not matter that a couple of years or three ago the municipalities do not have any deficits because virtually all the state, 78 per cent, and a little bit the autonomous communities, are left with them; it does not matter that the social services of the city cannot meet the needs or that the needs of the city are peremptory because the whole surplus is to be devoted to paying the banks. This is an absolutely unfair situation. It does the same thing that a city council does good management, because in the end that good management of savings will go to the banks and not to the neighbors, will go to the banks and not to improve the services, and not to move the local economy, to generate employment or to make investments. I'm done. Since Compromís we have announced that we are going to vote in favour of one of the points because it is obvious that it is - I agree with Mrs Oramas - absolutely insufficient. What needs to be done is to return the autonomy once and for all to the municipalities so that they can attend to their neighbours. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u233	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Postius Terrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Democratic Party we will support this motion by the Socialist Group. It is clear that the expenditure rule that has been applied to local entities in recent years has meant that in general terms the surplus generated by local corporations does not serve to enable them to have more resources, but to the contrary. In short, it has served to make it possible for the Government to square the accounts of other administrations. This is a very unfair situation - we have denounced it on many occasions - especially because in the end it turns out that the municipalities are being penalized for meeting the objectives set by the Government when it is the first to fail to meet its own objectives. Moreover, the situation is doubly unfair, since the savings generated by the municipalities in the end cannot be used to make investments or to increase public services. Therefore, as municipalities have met and meet deficit targets and debt reduction targets, a change in the application of the expenditure rule is necessary. Therefore, as I said at the outset, this proposal will count on our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u235	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u236	Good afternoon. Our group has been very critical of the austerity policies imposed from Europe, as they led to a constitutional reform by the urgent procedure that introduced in the constitutional text the principle of budgetary stability for administrations, constitutional reform that gave way to the Organic Law 2/2012, of budgetary stability and financial sustainability. As a result, the control of the public deficit has become almost the only strategic economic policy variable. Although we have approved deficit targets and have given greater flexibility to the autonomous communities and municipalities, we also understand that deficit targets in recent years have been unfairly distributed among the State, the autonomous communities and municipalities, assuming the latter two most of the adjustment. Organic Law 2/2012 adopts an even more restrictive approach than the European Union itself around the expenditure rule, which together with the deficit and debt limit are mandatory, placing this law at the same level as regards the enforceability of its application and the consequences of its non-compliance. The expenditure rule is an instrument of budgetary discipline that seeks to ensure the sustainability of public accounts, so that in the medium term the growth of government expenditure is limited by the ability to finance it with stable or sustained revenues over time. Furthermore, Europe does not use the expenditure rule as a sanction. Only deficit and debt targets are of this nature and therefore the expenditure rule is only an indicator of the medium-term objective measured in terms of structural balance. The expenditure rule does not respond to an accounting calculation, such as deficit or debt, but is an estimate of the level of growth that GDP should have in the medium term in order not to generate excessive inflation. The option adopted by Europe, on the other hand, is consistent with the nature of the expenditure rule, which first incorporates discretionary elements; secondly, it is calculated as a multiannual average, and thirdly, it generates a data that is very sensitive to the specific period taken as a reference. In contrast, the deficit and public debt are more objective in nature and are calculated for each year. But in the case of the expenditure rule, we understand that the government has gone beyond what was done in Europe, and its regulation has been exceeded. Those of us in the municipalities are well aware of the consequences of the application of this expenditure rule, especially in the case of surplus: reduction of the decision-making capacity of the municipalities, guardianship by the higher levels and adjustments or cuts. It is impossible to use the surplus-derived treasury remnant and, therefore, this money cannot be used to improve the quality of life of citizens through investments, social policies, etc. In addition, the municipalities have little room to increase our income, because we have little regulatory capacity to regulate taxes and increase spending, and to this must be added that, in the case of surplus, we must use it, as I said before, to repay debt. The municipalities have already shown that they are fulfilling, that they are mostly healthy, that they do not contribute to the deficit problem and that, being the institutions closest to the citizen, they should be able to allocate the savings generated in the improvement of public services, sustainable investments and actions that generate employment. We therefore believe, from our position, that it is necessary to bring this expenditure rule into line with the current situation of the municipalities, and we will therefore vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u237	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u238	Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Thank you, President. The Catalan Republicans are more than aware of the strong context of recession in which we were installed and in which still, say what some and some say, we continue to be, at least a large part of the population. That is why we are also convinced that, in the name of the crisis, we cannot continue to applaud what represented a victory of the most masochist austerity, a austerity disguised as cuts and more cuts, and above all the alarming call for efforts and extra efforts, once again, to the citizens on foot, condemning as a rule - because they do so - to more sacrifices, to more austerity and to pay the broken dishes always to themselves. Today we will vote in favour of this motion, a motion which is, of course, short, but which allows, if approved, the municipalities to allocate their surplus to investments and employment plans, although we must warn that two injustices will continue to occur. I like to call one vertical mode. - I'll explain myself. While the state administration accumulates the majority of debt and deficit, more than 60 per cent of the autonomous communities and local corporations are forced into greater restrictions. Interestingly, it is these administrations that have the most obligation to spend, especially social ones, while at the same time having less tax capacity and therefore less or no capacity to adjust. It should also be noted that it is these administrations that are filling the lack of adequate State funding for the care of citizens. Finally, the state administration is the one that can make the biggest cuts, both quantitatively and qualitatively, and can cut expenditure, for example - we have denounced it a thousand times - military or external expenditure, without affecting the quality of life and the rights acquired by the population. I continue with the other injustice, which I call the horizontal mode: the debt limits for the autonomous communities are neither equitable nor proportional. In fact, there is an extremely Jacobin distribution of debt limits; there is no correspondence with the fiscal effort developed in each territory; nor is there any consideration of the relative weight of the expenditure assumed by each level of administration in the last liquidated budget years or its structural financing conditions. In short, it is the government that enters the most and, at the same time, spends the least; that is, the one that receives the most taxes and the one that has the least expenditure obligations. The rest of the administrations, on the other hand, the municipalities too, are the ones that receive the least taxes and those that have the most obligations of spending. Most are expenditures on education, health care and social services. There are, therefore, alarming imbalances and, at the same time, insulting abuses. Ladies and gentlemen, the system is absolutely unworkable and, in our view, the solution is not to take re-centralisation measures, and less so when, despite the above, the state remains the most indebted. A few days ago Montoro illustrated to us that the rule of spending states that municipalities will not be able to spend more than a percentage on the country's economic growth; so that if growth is improved there will also be more room to spend. Mr Montoro, thank you very much for this information. Thanks to the Socialist Party, also, for the initiative, despite its contradictions and despite the fact that in your day you have also joined in giving a sign of budgetary rigour to the markets and to bring out, at the same time - which we thank, because it rarely happens - a smile to the always impenetrable Merkel. I'm done. You know what's going on? For here they have always paid righteous for sinners, once again by socializing the losses. Notice, the debt of the Madrid City Council, at the time, was nothing more and nothing less than 25% higher than that of the 947 municipalities of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, with your rule of spending, you have made all local authorities, all of you, pay for your disastrous management in municipalities, such as that in Madrid - ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, for you. Learn to manage your debt and then worry, if you want, about others' debt. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u239	Thank you very much. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u240	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today we are discussing the issue of the spending rule, and the first thing that is surprising in this whole debate is that we have talked here about the Constitution, about local sustainability, but the spending rule is the same for all administrations and is set out in Article 12 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, which was already discussed in the Courts, and it is a rule that limits spending, unless higher revenues are obtained by the corresponding Administration and limits the growth of spending. This rule can be redefined, that would not be a problem, but the one that has to be complied with, especially because this Organic Financial Stability Law the United Group We can amend it and did not come forward a few months ago. The position of Unidad Podemos is basically coherent, as they are not in favour of financial stability and therefore consider that the expenditure rule should not be applied. But to those of us who believe that the expenditure rule should apply, it seems to us that it is a basic rule, because it is the only way to maintain the sustainability of administrations. In this matter, the specific expenditure rule, which is now applied in Spain, was voted on 15 December in the agreement on the objectives of stability and public debt in this House. Our group voted in favour, but so did the Socialist Group and the People's Group. It set a goal that could have been different; in fact, the Socialist Party agreed on this and also agreed on tax increases and could have called in exchange for this support for the flexibility of the spending rule, but it did not. What is inconsistent with this motion is to agree on an expenditure rule that limits the increase in government spending to 2.1% and to say that this should be made more flexible by the week. On the other hand, it is also said in this question that the excess, the surplus that some municipalities have, can be used for investment or employment. Let us think of the municipalities that this money is going to amortize debt and that, when it is not done, sometimes it is invested, and it can be invested very badly, and we are tired of having empty, polysporting airports that do not serve, etc. To give a recent example, since we have talked here about the City of Madrid, this ends the fiscal year and, as you do not know what to do with the money, buys at a completely excessive price a building, since it is left, in the street Alcalá, 45. We do not believe that additional facilities should be provided to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent in this way and that public services are not guaranteed in the future. Municipalities with less debt will be more sustainable in the future and will also pay less interest in the future. Much has been said here that local entities are handing over money to the state, but that is not true, as they are amortizing their own debt. When this does not happen, in some cases there have been municipalities that cannot provide services to neighbours. This calls for debt restructuring. This should be the last resort, not to be paid by the neighbours, but to be paid by the neighbour, that is, by all other taxpayers. It therefore seems to us that the spending rule can be questionable, but there is some to have; it is necessary to have an organic law of financial stability and the precepts of the laws must be complied with and to guarantee the future financial sustainability of public administrations as the only way to guarantee municipal public services in the future. Therefore, our group, which considers this proposal to be essentially an improvement, will not support it and will abstain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u241	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Pradas Torres whether your group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u242	On the basis of the interventions, we will submit it in the same terms, but by points.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-01-CD170201.u243	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was two and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
