ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u1	The meeting was resumed. In accordance with Rule 68(1) of the Rules of Procedure and with the unanimity of the spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of item 29, corresponding to the opinion of the Committee on the Statute of Deputies on the declaration of the activities of Members. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of the reference point is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u2	We now begin with the item on the agenda for the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 3/2017 of 17 February, amending Organic Law 3/2013 of 20 June, on the protection of the health of the athlete and the fight against doping in sports activity and adapting to the amendments introduced by the World Anti-Doping Code 2015. [[Rumors]] Thank you so much for keeping quiet. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 151 of the Rules of Procedure of this House, I appear before you, on behalf of the Government, to request the validation of Royal Decree-Law 3/2017 of 17 February, amending Organic Law 3/2013 of 20 June, on the protection of the health of the athlete and the fight against doping in sports activity and adapting to the amendments introduced by the World Anti-Doping Code of 2015. This text is born with the aim of updating the regulatory framework for the fight against doping in our country to place it in the legal context of the vast majority of countries. Since the adoption of Law 10/1990 of 15 October on Sport, which was a starting point in the establishment of a framework for the suppression of doping in our system, Spain has made significant progress in this repression of doping. Following the 1999 World Conference on Doping in Sport in Lausanne, the World Anti-Doping Agency, AMA, was launched in 2003 to develop the first World Anti-Doping Code and international standards of procedures that complement it, a set of mandatory rules and guidelines for the international sport movement. Shortly thereafter, the UNESCO General Conference adopted the International Convention against Doping in Sport, specifically on 19 October 2005. The Convention incorporated in its appendix 1 the World Anti-Doping Code, adopted by the World Anti-Doping Agency, at the World Conference on Doping in Sport, held in Copenhagen on 5 March 2003. The convention made it clear that the code did not impose direct obligations on States signatories to the convention but, according to its article 4, required its transposition. Consequently, the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code were incorporated into the domestic law of each country, in accordance with its constitutional rules. In the case of Spain, the incorporation of the code and its amendments were carried out through the following laws. The above-mentioned Sports Law 10/1990, which was the subject of successive updates until the adoption of the Organic Law 7/2006 of 21 November on the protection of health and the fight against doping in sport, whose promulgation was a fundamental milestone in the history of the fight against doping in our legal system. Following the amendment of the World Anti-Doping Code in January 2009, Organic Law 3/2013 of 20 June 2013 on the protection of the health of the athlete and the fight against doping in sports activity was adopted. Thanks to this law, the configuration of the doping and its consequences on sports activity began to be addressed from an integral perspective and its regime within the system of health protection of athletes was supplemented by a regulation that affected the ethical aspects linked to the demand for clean play. The fight against doping is, ladies and gentlemen - as you know - constantly evolving because doping, unfortunately, is also constantly evolving. Therefore, the World Anti-Doping Agency subjects this global code to periodic review processes to suppress precisely these new forms of doping. Therefore, and on the occasion of the Fourth World Anti-Doping Conference in Johannesburg in November 2013, the new World Anti-Doping Code was adopted, whose entry into force took place on 1 January 2015, obliging all States signatories to the UNESCO Convention to bring their respective legal systems into line with the new code. The deadline for its entry into force in the national legislation was 18 November 2015. The AMA granted an extension until 18 March 2016 to those countries that had not adapted their anti-doping legislation to the new code, including Spain. The reason was that the prolonged period of government in office throughout 2016 determined that the required legal reform could not be referred to the General Courts in time and form. It is true that the Government, aware of this and bound by the Government Act of 2002 that prevented the submission of a bill that was what required the amendment of the Sports Act, published the anti-doping code - at the suggestion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation - in the Official Gazette of the State, but this was not enough for the AMA, which on 19 March 2016 declared Spain in non-compliance, a situation in which countries such as Andorra, Argentina, Bolivia, Israel, Russia and Ukraine were also present. This declaration of non-compliance at the different levels of the national doping control system has been diverse and has de facto meant the exclusion of Spain from the international control mechanisms of sports doping, with the consequent effects on the ability of the Spanish sports authorities to organise international events and the lack of external recognition of the controls carried out to our athletes or to third parties in the internal competitions. In particular, this declaration of non-compliance weighing on Spain had the following immediate consequences. National anti-doping organizations, first of all, were not allowed to carry out controls in their countries as long as the declaration of non-compliance remained. In addition, they could not act as providers of doping sample collection services for other anti-doping organizations, both international federations and other national organizations. Secondly, and as a result of this statement, the World Anti-Doping Agency decided to suspend the accreditation given to the Madrid Doping Control Laboratory, which made the samples taken to the athletes have to be diverted for analysis to other laboratories. Hence, ladies and gentlemen, the urgent and extraordinary policy intervention of the Government through the processing of this royal decree-law, hence its justification for the consequences arising from the lack of incorporation of the new version of the World Anti-Doping Code into domestic legislation and which, as I have said, directly affects all levels of organization, planning and development of public sports policies, professional and amateur practice of sport and the right to health of those who practice it. This royal decree-law that I submit to the House for validation is articulated around two elements related to doping. Firstly, the modification of the sanctioning regime and, secondly, the strengthening of the autonomy and independence of the agency. The royal decree-law also includes the declaration of an event of exceptional interest of the Tokyo 2020 Plan, an essential program, as you know, to help our athletes in their preparation for the upcoming Olympic and Paralympic appointments. The main aspect that is being changed in the sanctioning regime - the new developments in the reform - are as follows. Two new offences are introduced, complicity, defined as any activity consisting of assisting, encouraging, assisting, inciting, collaborating, conspiratoring, concealing or any other type of intentional complicity in relation to an offence... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u4	One second, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u5	Thank you, Madam President. The complicity, which I have just defined, and the prohibited association, characterized as non-compliance with the prohibition of receiving professional services from any person suspended for some kind of administrative and criminal offence. Secondly, the limitation period of the doping infringement is increased, from eight to ten years, which also implies an increase in the retention period of the doping control samples for possible re-analysis. Thirdly, very serious offences are defined as conduct aimed at circumventing or distorting the results of the tests, such as non-compliance with the obligation to submit to the collection of samples following a notification made in accordance with the relevant anti-doping rules or the manipulation or attempted manipulation of any part of the process of such doping control. Finally, the sportsman's duty - this is very important - to report on his location, defining as a serious breach to be in breach of these obligations three times within twelve months - before it was eighteen months - and specifying that the deadline will start to be calculated from the first day of the non-compliance to be taken into account. In the case of sanctions, the standard sanctions for the presence, use or possession of substances and methods prohibited in sport from two to four years of disqualification are tightened, with the aim of deterring those athletes who may be tempted to resort to doping by pursuing their sporting success. Similarly, the subjective sphere is changed, which is no longer confined exclusively to athletes, but extends - and this is also very important - to all the groups included in the scope of enforcement of doping obligations, i.e. doctors, clubs or managers. The regulation on the criteria and changing circumstances of liability is also supplemented. It includes the immediate confession as an amending circumstance of that, favoring the collaboration of those sportsmen involved in cases of doping in the repair of the damage caused to their sport and in the discovery and sanctioning of the last ones responsible for their doping. The second aspect of the amendment incorporated in the decree-law is aimed at strengthening the autonomy and independence of the agency. Health skills in sport are relocated to strengthen the independence and autonomy of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Health in Sport. This is done in compliance with the amendments to the 2015 World Anti-Doping Code, reversing the attribution to the agency of health protection competences to the athlete that had been carried out in 2013. The segregation of health protection functions from doping control mechanisms is very important for the athlete to be able to clearly identify which public bodies are carrying out activities to protect his health and when they are being subjected to doping controls to ensure that the sport competition is conducted on an equal footing and that the rules are complied with. Finally, as I mentioned earlier, this royal decree-law approves the tax incentives that will apply to the Spanish athletes' training programme at the Tokyo Games of 2020, giving continuity to the regulation applied in the previous Olympic cycles. The ADO and ADOP programmes are an essential element to promote funding for the preparation of athletes and teams for the Olympic and Paralympic Games. Sponsorship and financing of such high-level activities are carried out through contributions from private companies. The aim is, of course, to improve the results of Spanish sport in these Olympic events. In the last Olympic cycle 2013-2016, the amount of sponsorships subscribed with the companies, together with the contribution of Spanish Radiotelevision, amounted to slightly more than 35 million euros. The contribution of the sponsors and their involvement in the programme requires the maintenance of the tax benefits and incentives derived from the declaration as an event of special public interest of the programme of preparation of the Spanish athletes at the Rio de Janeiro Games 2016, as has already happened previously with previous events, namely London 2012 and before Beijing 2008. The programme for the preparation of Spanish athletes for the Tokyo Games will therefore be regarded as an event of exceptional public interest for the purposes of Article 27 of Law 49/2002 of 23 December 2002 on tax arrangements for non-profit entities and tax incentives for sponsorship. The duration of this programme shall run from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2020. This declaration of the programme must be made immediately in order to obtain the resources of the sponsors with whom the scholarships are financed and the costs necessary for athletes, teams and technicians with options to have a medal to begin the preparation of the upcoming Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. Finally, I would like to highlight one last issue of great importance. I spoke earlier about the AMA's declaration of Spain's non-compliance. Last Tuesday, two days ago, the Higher Sports Council received the notification of the World Anti-Doping Agency declaring Spain in compliance after the publication of the decree-law that we submit today to the validation of its lords. The communication signed by the director of the World Anti-Doping Agency, with which the Government, through the Higher Council of Sports, has been in contact at all times, acknowledges this incorporation given by the publication of the decree-law and reports that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Health in Sport has been raised in the list of non-compliance with the World Anti-Doping Code always - adds that communication - that the actual decree-law that we submit for consideration is validated in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, in an area as relevant as the fight against doping, Spain complies with this royal decree-law with world regulations and thus our sport is at the same level as the rest of the countries of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons I have just pointed out, they make it necessary - and the Government is asking this House to do so - to validate this text. A text which, moreover, comes to give effect to various initiatives of the parliamentary groups of this House, namely a non-law proposal by the Socialist Group and a question by the Citizens' Group, in which the Government was urged to this adaptation. The Government and the parliamentary groups in this House have committed ourselves to this process which is now complete and whose next stage is the task of continuing to move towards a comprehensive policy to combat doping and protect the health of the athlete. We will therefore promote in this policy the presence of the athletes themselves and that of the other actors involved, including the parliamentary groups, through the establishment of a working group in the Higher Sports Council, in which the following steps will be taken and thanks to whose work, I am sure, we can continue to maintain this position, which is what Spanish sport deserves. Therefore, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the House to validate Royal Decree-Law 3/2017 of 17 February, which amends Organic Law 3/2013 of 20 June, on the protection of the health of the athlete and the fight against doping in sports activity and adapts to the amendments introduced to the World Anti-Doping Code of 2015. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca spoke first of all in the turn of the joint parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u7	Good morning, Madam President. Since we are talking about sport, let me congratulate the distinguished Members of Congress for the memorable success of Barça last night. [[Applauds]] [[Rumors]] Let it be known that these sports activities can only be possible either by divine intercession or by counting in front of the team with one of Gijón's played at the School of Fútbol de Mareo and with the colors of Sporting. [[All right, cheers. -]] So congratulations to Barça for having Luis Enrique as coach.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u8	One second, Your Honor, allow me a license. The Presidency always calls the question, but in this case, I call the question of sport. Thank you very much. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u9	Thank you very much. The main feature of this real-decree law is that it updates the Spanish legislative framework in the control of health in sport; a matter of utmost priority for Spain and on which the General Courts had already ruled with the adoption in 2013 of the Organic Law on the protection of the health of the athlete and the fight against doping. As the Minister of Culture and Sport has explained, the law requires to adapt to the changes introduced in 2015 in the World Anti-Doping Code, because it is worth remembering that the Spaniards were rejected for delays in the adaptation of our standards to the requirements of the World Anti-Doping Agency, in which the political paralysis and the prolonged period of government in office throughout 2016, as Mr Méndez de Vigo has just recalled, has influenced - and must be emphasized - the political paralysis and the prolonged period of government in office throughout 2016. There remained a year ago, on the eve of the Rio de Janeiro Games, the episode of suspension of the accreditation of one of the two anti-doping laboratories with which Spain has, which is also the only one that directly depends on the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Health in Sport, which is responsible for these issues. This cannot be repeated again, even if it is a tiny administrative scandal compared to large institutional conspiracies such as those highlighted by the McLaren report and Russian practices to falsify anti-doping controls and cover up any positive cases of doping with many great elite athletes as protagonists. This royal decree-law is a text that updates the infringements, penalties and limitation periods in the area of doping; that adjusts the accreditation definitions of the international or national category of our athletes; that establishes, clarifies and regulates the authorizations for therapeutic use and also the location of the athlete to pass anti-doping controls and different aspects on the preservation of samples and their analysis. It is a good text in favour of sport as a health-promoting mechanism, as an example for society as a whole and uniquely for young people. And also because it increases the succession of filters in favor of what in Spain and in the Olympic world we know as fair play, as a clean game. And finally, because it complements a good set of regulations to combat and deter traps in sport, empowering the administrative organization with competence in the fight against doping. I would like to stress, among the many measures of this royal decree-law, the commitment that derives from the article dedicated to health when the sport activity is completed and the commitment that also derives from the elaboration of a specific programme for the protection, recovery or treatment of athletes who have completed their sport activity and who present sequelae as a result of them. There are, indeed, dramatic examples in Spain of athletes who, after giving their best to represent our country, have literally remained at the stand, including physical and psychic conditions, for their future daily lives. The validation of this royal decree-law will be for my part, Madam President, in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u10	Thank you very much. Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u11	Thank you, President. Mr. Martínez Oblanca, yesterday it was shown that there is nothing impossible. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] I'm telling you about the Oloti club because it represents the purest and most essential thing about sport. They are guilty of respecting the rules, of teamwork, of being persistent, of learning from mistakes, of respecting themselves, of being prepared and, above all, of loving sport. Today you cannot demonstrate these values that govern the world of sport, although you are persistent; persistent in not complying with the rules. And if we are here today talking about this royal decree, that is precisely why. No one in the anti-doping professional sector explains how we have come to this point. We were all very aware that things were not being done well, all but you. In the statement of reasons, they ratify it in writing and claim that they have not been able to validate the law because they are in office. Let's see with data how you take our hair and how you try to justify what has just been a disproportionate act of irresponsibility. The elections were held in December 2015 and the deadline set by the World Anti-Doping Agency was November 2015. You have not respected the rules, despite being repeatedly warned, both by the World Anti-Doping Agency or the Spanish Anti-Doping Agency and by the laboratories and athletes warned, that there could be suspension. They left in the drawer the main rules of the sport to boast of their highest degree of prepotence, challenging the international institutions with their tiredness: we are the Kingdom of Spain and no one is going to suspend us. Trust is good, ladies and gentlemen, as long as it is accompanied by good practices and not by petulance, and you have shown that you are not prepared to face the twenty-first century, basically because you have done absolutely nothing. I would like to express our deep condemnation of the indecency of the former Secretary of State for Sport, Mr Cardinal, and our confidence in a real change of the new Secretary, Mr Lete. Were we all aware of the risk but you? Obviously, we are going to vote in favour of the validation of the royal decree because we are sick of the none of this government to the athlete and to the sport in general, and I will give you a given. In the previous parliamentary term, in the short term, only one party that is here today presented sports proposals, the Democratic Party, our party, that independenceist, sovereignist, terrorist party that pushes the state. We do not push the State; we love our work and this makes us unconditional of people. And we are not sovereignists or independenceists for free, we are because we are convinced that it is essential to improve people's lives. There's more and I'll be brief. In Spain there are two laboratories, Barcelona and Madrid. Over the years, Madrid has capitalized its analysis, so Barcelona's, in order to achieve a suitable volume of business, has expanded into the international market, which accounts for almost 70% of its sales. This internationalization has saved him from the suspension, as the World Anti-Doping Agency adapted the document of international standards for laboratories saying that laboratories working more internationally than nationally were outside the suspension. This is not the case with the Madrid laboratory, although the suspension has already been lifted. Due to the inoperability of the Spanish Agency and the Madrid laboratory and despite the fact that the Barcelona laboratory has been able to take part in the work, unfair situations have been created that deserve answers from the State. Our group demands that those responsible be identified and that appropriate action be taken. The system has been questioned once again because, I insist, of its irresponsibility. It is in your hands, Minister, to demonstrate that you can and must learn from mistakes, and to demonstrate also and above all your commitment to the world of sport. Take good note of the values that our athletes wear tattoos; love sport as Olot skaters love it; play clean, play in team and work a little harder because if not, we will continue to lose everyone. I finish my speech; an intervention that is not normal, and it is not because last week the spokesman of my group was judged for doing politics, for doing healthy politics, for responding to the concerns of many citizens. He was judged for putting ballot boxes, he was judged because there are many here who have not been able to do politics. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Shame on you! This doesn't happen in a normal country. [[Folding the right arm several times high]] Thank you, Quico. [[Finish your speech in Catalan.-Applause]] Mr President, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. Mrs AGIRRETXEA URRESTI: Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Government presents a royal decree-law with the declared purpose of adapting Organic Law 3/2013 of 20 June, on the protection of the health of the athlete and the fight against doping in sport, to the regulatory changes introduced in the system of combating doping by the new wording of the World Anti-Doping Code, which entered into force on 1 January 2015. This marked new international regulation left the Spanish legislation outside the harmonic regulation advocated by the International Convention against Doping in Sport of Unesco, being obliged to its immediate adaptation, as reflected in the world code itself, as the Minister has said. This situation of inconsistency of state legislation with the new global code has generated the consequent formal declaration by the World Anti-Doping Agency of breach of the code by the Spanish State - non-compliance, yes - and the new wording entered into force in 2015 - withhold the dates, which is very important: non-compliance and entered into force in January 2015-. [[Rumors]] My group believes that it is appropriate to clarify and recall certain issues which are basic and fundamental to us and which respond to the abc of good governance. Obviously, the law - I say the law, the Constitution - provides for the possibility for the Government, in circumstances of utmost urgency, to use the system of the royal decree-law, but those emergencies are, if not assessed, accepted by the whole and by the legislators: when there are circumstances that we all understand as urgent, such as natural disasters, threatening economic circumstances, etc. - we could not make a list, but we all understand what is something urgent that a real decree-law really must accept. However, the point here is that by absolute majority and for many years the concept of the royal decree-law has degenerated, and we have used it as a tool that serves everything, especially to avoid parliamentary debate. Gentlemen of the Government, this is no way to govern; you cannot stand before the House as if it were the most natural thing, as if you continue to hold an absolute majority that you do not have, with a saving decree-law under your arm as if nothing happened. It is no way to govern or respect the work of this House, which cannot be distorted by saying that, as the issue of doping is so important, the form does not matter. They can't hide in the argument they make because they've had time - yes, they've had time - and all the groups know it. I don't know if it has been negligence or that the bull has caught them outside the mockery; I don't know who has the responsibility, but we didn't and you did have to have responded to this international demand within the relevant deadlines. And I don't want to hide in the I don't know who hasn't done their job right or who doesn't; the government was the government and the responsibility is who it is. We therefore find excessive the amendment by decree-law of an organic law. You amend thirty-three articles by means of a decree-law. What system of government is this? It is objectionable at the time of the validation of this decree-law that several articles of Organic Law 3/2013 that are amended do not relate directly to the precise regulatory adaptation to the CMA, therefore not attending to them the essential note of extraordinary and urgent necessity required by article 86 of the Constitution. Thus, as expressed in the memoir that you have presented to Articles 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50, you are changing to proceed to move from the Spanish Agency for the Protection of the Health of Sport the competences and powers that they develop in favor of the Higher Sports Council, according to the new dimension and structure that you have entrusted to this one. Through this amendment, it assigns to the Higher Sports Council various functions that in the organic law resident in the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Health in Sport were and, now, these articles relate to the following issues: performance of the Higher Sports Council in article 41, personal and material means, specific measures, research, training curricula, medical examinations, recognitions and health follow-up of high-level athletes, protection of the health of professional athletes, athlete's health card, etc. As for the debate on doping, we do not want to go into how it should be controlled and what measures should be taken, because that is something that our party has always been convinced of; we must give what needs to be given, the size that needs to be given. And we can't hide ourselves in that, because that's important, we can do it as we please. Of course, it does not seem enough the argument pointed out in the memory, in the sense that the aggregation of different competences within the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Health in Sport - such as those of the fight against doping, and those relating to the protection of health in sports activity - have been manifested incompatible and that, moreover, they may affect the autonomy and independence required by the World Anti-Doping Code and collected in the articulation of the Organic Law of the protection of the health of the athlete and the fight against doping in sports activity - that is what you say -. In other words, it does not seem sufficient or the alleged contradiction that it is the body itself that verifies its activity in the field of health protection in sport, and that it is carried out with respect to anti-doping legislation, nor does it appear that it is the appropriate segregation of health protection functions from doping control mechanisms, so that the athlete can clearly identify when public bodies are carrying out activities to protect health, and when they are being subjected to doping controls to ensure that the sport competition is carried out on an equal basis and the rules are complied with. It does not seem sufficient arguments to justify the case of an extraordinary and urgent need to provide this regulatory amendment by means of the exceptional instrument - I repeat - of the decree-law, as this completely steals from the legislative body the amendment of Organic Law 3/2013 of 20 June. On the other hand, this royal decree dedicates its final disposition - and you have explained it - to the declaration for tax purposes as an event of exceptional public interest the program of preparation of the Spanish athletes at the Tokyo 2020 Games, program that will have a duration that covers from 1 January, we have started this year, until 31 December 2020. The reason for the inclusion of this measure in the decree-law is the need to carry out - on your part - an immediate declaration in order to obtain resources from sponsors, etc., with the same general content as that recognized in the programme corresponding to the Olympic Games of Rio de Janeiro 2016. This declaration is made for the purpose of recognising the appropriate tax benefits on corporate taxes and on the income of natural persons referred to in Article 27 of Law 49/2002 of 23 December of the Tax Regime for non-profit entities and tax incentives for sponsorship, and its application, for example, in the context of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, would therefore require the appropriate adaptation to the tax rules proper to the historical territories in accordance with the provisions of the Basque Economic Agreement. Of course, this declaration could well have been carried out without the urgency and o-pa-ci-dad that represents its approval by a decree law, it being not acceptable to argue in this case the notes of extraordinary and urgent necessity; it is undoubtedly more convenient and proper of a democratic system to recognize these fiscal incentives through a normative instrument debated and approved through the appropriate parliamentary procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, as a conclusion, in our view and legally, the precise conditions for admitting this validation of this royal decree-law do not apply in this case. I repeat again that it is not a debate about how we should control doping, because this would be a deception, that would be misleading society. Our vote against is not about content, but because this is not a way of governing and we cannot let it pass, because if you do it once you can do it two, three and all the times you want. And we will be the ones who legitimize or not this way of ruling! My parliamentary group will therefore not support validation and will also ask that this royal decree-law be treated as a bill by the urgency procedure. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u12	Thank you very much. Mrs Surra Spadea has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Republican Left of Catalonia is going to vote in favour of the royal decree-law, but not because we are convinced that it is the best thing to do in relation to the matter, but because it is less bad than what was before. It seems that you have quickly learned the Rajoy method, which consists of doing nothing until the deadlines run out. As examples we have the ports, the banks and a long and so on. In this case, it is the formal declaration by the World Anti-Doping Agency of non-compliance with the Code, in accordance with Article 23. This code, as you have already stated, is from 2015 and I inform you that we are in 2017. Throughout my life I have known how to be, like many people, a sportsman, arbiter, coach and even a sports journalist and, in all stages, I have always tried to defend the ethical values of clean play and compliance with the rules. This is done by most sportsmen, out of respect for themselves, their bodies and especially others, fighting against doping or any other unethical behavior. Today we will vote on an adaptation of the legislation to the minimum required of us by the World Anti-Doping Agency and we will do so at the last minute. This shows that the Spanish Government has no political will for state-of-the-art legislation to be in place in the fight against doping in sport. It seems that it was more important to win some medals here and there, at any price, and get out in the picture than to show the world a Spanish sport free of corruption, fraud and doping. I say corruption because a dope athlete is a corrupt and a con man. Spirit corruption is probably the worst of corruption and a scam on clean sportsmen. Fortunately, it is the majority who are trained without any kind of scam, but are overtaken by those few who use the unclean game to win in any way, but we already know by another kind of corruption that the Government has no political will and neither for this one. Moreover, it seems that he is not aware of the image that Spain has abroad in this regard. When a Spanish athlete wins a medal, foreign sports journalists say: the latter did not pass the last three checks or is trained in a country where controls are insufficient. We ourselves are beating up high-performance athletes for not having adequate and modern legislation. An example of will is Law 34/2002, which allowed for controls to be established on the sale of medicinal products without authorization. But what Spain do you live in, Minister? Don't you know that you can buy cocaine, heroin, marijuana, Viagra and 7,000 more drugs on the street? Come on! I'll give you some examples so you can see that you can and should do better. Article 22.1 states: Avoidance, rejection or non-compliance without valid justification of the obligation to submit to doping controls after a valid notification. This avoids surprise controls, which are the most effective. It should be amended by deleting: 'after a valid notification'. Article 22.2 stipulates that an offence is considered to exist where the athlete has failed to fulfil the localization obligations on three occasions during the twelve-month period. If there was a willingness to attack the doping problem, here I should say: 'If the athlete is not in the declared place of his training, he is automatically suspended and has a one-week period to carry out the check; and if he does not show up, he is suspended for two years from the first time'. This is stipulated by the laws of the countries you call out of suspicion or credible to the AMA. Minister, avoiding three controls in one year is to leave the door open to doping. Article 30 on the annulment of results reads: In equipment sports, provided that more than two of its members have committed an infringement in the field of doping, during the period of holding of a sporting event and regardless of the actions that may be corresponding under the provisions of this law, disciplinary bodies shall rule on the origin of altering, where appropriate, the outcome of meetings, tests, competitions or championships. To this end, they shall consider the competing circumstances and, in any event, the decisive participation in the outcome of the encounter, testing or competition of those who have committed doping offences and the involvement of minors in such conduct. This is another door open to the doping. There is an enormity of teams of two sportsmen - volleyball, cycling, tennis, swimming and a long and so on - not counting those who practice five or six. But why more than two? It should be modified by deleting 'always and when more than two of its members' and adding 'only one member of the team has doubled to cancel the team's result'. A few days ago, the very same Usain Bolt was removed from a gold medal from a four-per-cent relief because years earlier it was found that a member of the team was doped. This demonstrates the seriousness of anti-doping. We have listed just a few examples of what can be improved, but surely together all those concerned - sportsmen, sports federations and all the political groups that we want elite sportsmen to be protected against this scourge - will find all the necessary formulas to develop a policy that will get this country off the list of non-compliant. The negotiating table that is yet to be held can start working from tomorrow, if this Government truly has the political will to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u14	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u15	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This morning we discussed the Royal Decree-Law amending the Anti-Doping Act, which adapts our legislation to the World Anti-Doping Code. We will all agree that we must adapt our legislation to the World Anti-Doping Code, because Spain cannot stay out of the fight against doping. But, ladies and gentlemen, we should have had this debate a long time ago. We are late, Minister; so late that, as you have pointed out, you have assumed that the World Anti-Doping Agency has sanctioned Spain and has declared us a non-compliant country. This Tuesday, I assume that after much pressure from his Government, the situation of non-compliance has been lifted. We have been told that this adjustment has not been made before because the Government was in office, but, Minister, this is not the case. Don't come here and lie. [[Minister of Education, Culture and Sport, Íñigo Méndez de Vigo y Montojo: Lie?]] The World Anti-Doping Code was adopted on 15 November 2013. Since November 15, 2013, you knew what you had to adapt and how you had to do it. The World Anti-Doping Code comes into force on 1 January 2015, but since 2013 they already knew how they had to do it, so they could have started preparing it for 1 January to be ready and to enter these Courts, but it is that the Courts do not dissolve until 27 October 2015. From November 2013 to October 2015 they have had almost two years to make that adaptation, there are no possible excuses. But it is that, moreover, when you have been in office you have brought to this House two royal decree-laws that have been validated. Why didn't you bring this royal decree-law? Why didn't they bring him? [[Applauds]] We're not worth those excuses. Minister, this demonstrates the importance your Government attaches to sport, which is none. That's right, Minister, to take the picture when our athletes win and it's all right if, for that they are in a hurry. We demand that they be given the same haste for everything. Let us hope that with the new Secretary of State for Sport - because it seems that it is happening - things will change. The truth is that we have to say that there is a good relationship with the new Secretary of State for Sport and that things seem to be going well. The previous one only cared about the debts of football, which was an important and serious issue that Spain had, but in sport there is life beyond football although we are all happy with yesterday's results. As we said, this delay, not having done the duties when playing and having been bad students - you, who is Minister of Education, has also been bad student - has had serious consequences for the image of our sport that, unfortunately, was already quite touched. This has had consequences for the Madrid laboratory, which has lost accreditation, and this has meant that our football, as we have learned from the newspapers - once again we have to learn from the newspapers - has been more than a year without doing anti-doping checks. It has also had an economic cost to the public coffers, as it has cost us 200,000 euros to all Spaniards. This Member asked them a question in November and you have answered it this Tuesday; it must be that as this debate came, they hurried to answer. Minister, when things get late and in a hurry usually the result is not good. Gentlemen of the PP, you have not just realized that you are no longer with an absolute majority, that you can no longer come here and apply the roller. This decree-law has been made without counting the parliamentary groups. We had a meeting but we were neither given nor seen nor was it possible to talk about that decree-law. There have also been no sports associations or federations. In addition to the forms - which, as I say, are very questionable - it would also chirify the background and, of course, we do not doubt that the decree-law is in accordance with the World Anti-Doping Code, but the drafting of this decree-law is quite improveable. There are some issues, such as disqualification in the case of doping sanctions, which can cause problems. That is why you will already know, Minister, that the rest of the groups have been considering very seriously validating this decree-law and treating it as a bill - that was our intention -. However, we are not going to do so because the World Anti-Doping Agency has lifted that penalty and we do not want the image of Spain to continue to be damaged abroad and, because the Secretary of State for Sport and yourself this morning have committed themselves to setting up a working group to draw up and prepare the next amendment to the World Anti-Doping Code. That is why we are not going to treat it as a bill, but our intention was to do so. You will tell us that this is like Mr Maillo's famous lentils, that this is what there is, that the AMA gives us this, is what we have to adapt and we cannot do anything else, but it is not so. Portugal and France have adapted the World Anti-Doping Code by adapting it to their national legislation. Why can't Spain do that? Do you know why we couldn't do it? For we have not done things when he touched; for we have not been negotiating with the AMA, because we have not done our work. And so, then the hurry has come and, of course, when the hurry comes we have to do it as the AMA tells us. No, let's do it now and work now, and don't leave things to the end. Unfortunately, as is also the case with other issues that have emerged today on the agenda, so let's leave it for the end. Let us already work in that working group. As we said before, sport goes beyond football debts. We have a lot to do, because in recent years practically nothing has been done. We have the Sports Act of 1990 which needs urgent reform because, when it was passed, the reality of Spanish sport was very different from what is currently available. For example, the Sports Act does not provide for the possibility of women's professional leagues. Yesterday was International Women's Day and our sports legislation does not provide for this equality between men and women. To a greater extent, we have a problem with federations - here we see it in the press, because we are every day in the newspapers with cases in federations - and then we will have to review the federative model that we have. But we also have a real decree, which regulates the special relationship of professional sportsmen, which is 1985, which has already rained enough since then and it would be necessary, as we have said, to make a sportsman's statute. We must create a plan to promote sport in our children and young people in order to instill in them the values of sport and healthy lifestyles. If we want our success in the Spanish sport to continue - because it is true that we have had good results in the previous Olympic Games, but many of those good results come from athletes who are already at the top of their sports career, even some are already going down -, if we want to improve, we have to increase the funding, but not only the funding that depends on the public funds that, of course, have to improve them; we also have to make private funds come, for which we will have to draft a law of sponsorship and, also, that a percentage of the sports betting, as the Law of Regulation of the Game says, goes to the sport and devotes itself to the sport. [[Applauds]] So we could continue, because we have many challenges and a lot of work to do. Minister, in conclusion, I would like to point out to you what we said before: we will validate this decree-law, because we are committed to the fight against doping and do not want the image of our sport to be more damaged than has already been seen. And because they have committed themselves - we hope that they will do so, because it is not a matter of corruption and the word corruption does not come out - I believe that they will do so and that a working group is already set up to adapt the World Anti-Doping Code. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs Arévalo Caraballo has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, today is March 9, 2017 and the People's Party government no longer has an absolute majority; but it seems, by its way of continuing to legislate, that nothing would have changed. The People's Party government seems to have not heard that the time when it could legislate on the basis of decrees, fortunately, has passed. The Government uses the royal decree-law to avoid parliamentary debate by stealing, in this way, the main function of this House. Formally, what we are doing this morning is not to ratify this rule, because the only thing that the People's Party allows us to do is to come here and ratify the emergency situation that has led to the promulgation of this royal decree. Well, even this is questionable. Of course, it is the Government that decides when a fact is urgently needed, but in the case before us it was urgent since 2015 and nothing has been done so far. In fact, the Government uses the normative figure of the Royal Decree-Law not as an emergency remedy, but as the way by which the Executive intends to incorporate the World Anti-Doping Code into the Spanish legal system, saving the debate and participation involved in the processing of a law. Today, as a Legislature, we only have the option of validating or repealing this rule. The People's Party Government is thus stealing from this House - as I have said before - the possibility of debate. Of course it is urgent and necessary to adopt the World Anti-Doping Code, but, I insist, it was urgent and necessary for more than two years. In all this time the People's Party government has done nothing, has not moved a finger for more than two years, and now it is up to it to run the 100 meters smooth to arrive in time. Moreover, this government of flags on the wrists has been allowing us to get the colors out of the fight against doping as a country and our athletes to be pointed out in an unfounded way. [[Applauds]] No one has any doubt that, as a non-compliant country, we have suffered significant repercussions, which have shaken our sports stadiums and especially the authorities responsible for controlling doping in our country. Let us not trap the solitary one, who so far has not assumed this code is solely the fault of the inoperation of the People's Party; it is not worth arguing that this has not been done because we were in a situation of institutional blockade, it is not because it is not true. The World Anti-Doping Code came into force before the elections on December 20, 2015; they have had time. In fact, this adaptation could have been carried out since 2013. The approach we are taking today, to validate or repeal the Royal Decree-Law, is in my view a patch, because what we consider from my parliamentary group and what we consider to be different players in the world of sport is that what is urgent and necessary is to have a parliamentary and social debate on this issue. Therefore, it seems to me that this Government owes us a participatory and more in-depth debate on doping. The forms used to adapt the code have not been the right ones and I have transmitted it in the last few days to the Secretary of State for Sport, Mr José Ramón Lete. I take advantage of my speech today to pass this on to the minister as well. If there had been will, the participation of the athletes, their doctors, technicians and directors in the elaboration of this standard could have been guaranteed. This would have been good for a simple reason, because it is they who will be affected by the World Anti-Doping Code. It is true that at the last moment some agents of the world of sport have been spoken to, but this has become late and not through the proper channels. Collaboration between the world of sport and the public authorities must necessarily be continuous in order to be able to fight effectively against doping. In the field of sport today there is concern and discomfort, and we therefore call for the immediate creation of a working group to analyse the impact of this rule on our legal system and sport. The World Anti-Doping Agency this week has lifted the suspension; target met. Let us start working tomorrow to ensure that the new adaptation of the AMA code is involved, agreed and negotiated. I ask you, Minister, to commit yourself to this so that it is reflected in the Journal of Sessions and so, if it does not meet tomorrow, we can remove the colors and recriminate it. I am not calling into question that Spain should be a vanguard in the fight against doping, that no one should be confused, but also and above all that it should be a vanguard in the way it governs, and a government that does not have an absolute majority cannot continue to govern by means of real decree-laws, is obliged to give Parliament a leading role. [[Applauds]] This House has the function of controlling the government, but there has been no such possibility in this area, because the debate on doping has so far not been involved at all. I want to make two considerations that seem important to me. On the one hand, that this royal decree-law is not the result of a dialogue, neither with the sportsmen and women nor with the specialists, nor with sectors and organizations of the Spanish sports system. In short, there has been no interest in seeking social consensus, although - and I must acknowledge this - the political consensus of all parliamentary groups has been worked out. This is something we warmly welcome, but it can also be improved because, until it was approved by the Council of Ministers and published in the BOE, we had no access to the text; everything has to be said. Even with these considerations, it is true that our country needed to assume the code of the World Anti-Doping Agency, that is, the adaptation to the AMA code must be made taking into account our legal system. Spain must - of course - align itself with the World Anti-Doping Code, but only to the extremes that our Constitution allows. The reasons for adapting our system to this code are multiple and varied. For me and my group, the fundamental reason is, of course and above all, the protection of the health of athletes, and for this the World Anti-Doping Code is a fundamental element, because it understands doping not only as a matter of sports ethics but also and above all as something that violates the protection of health. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea the main objective of adapting this code must be the protection of the athlete. It is essential for us and for us to put clearly the focus of what is happening with doping in the protection of athletes, in the rights of athletes, in information and in the impact on the professional future. The code introduces a tightening of sanctions - now they will be longer -; it also increases the pressure on the environment, that is, on the coach, the doctor, the trainer, etc. The responsibility for doping does not lie solely with the athlete. This includes a new, somewhat controversial concept, which is that of the prohibited association, which limits the association of sportsmen with personnel who are sanctioned for anti-doping offences from an administrative point of view or who have been convicted by criminal means of any offence in this area. We share the fight against doping, but we consider the preventive aspect equally relevant. Prevention can be a fundamental element to avoid continuing towing in this phenomenon that is doing so much damage to Spanish sport. Beyond this code, it is essential to disseminate, to make known, in short, to educate all and all sportsmen, all and all health technicians in sport. Doping prevention education should involve accessibility to information and the development of communication campaigns aimed not only at athletes, but also at the athlete's environment in order to enable knowledge of the new legislation and, above all, to explain what doping is and what impact it can have. The code is a document - I would like to highlight it - that does not entail a legal obligation, but responds to our country's moral and political commitment to the fight against doping. The global code is the unique reference for doping. It is true that the sanctions included in the code are one of the most controversial points, so it is necessary to apply to all sports and sportsmen equally and without exception in all States. The Spanish State must ensure the uniformity of the rules, but above all the guarantee and respect for the rights and freedoms of our athletes. The Government must ensure the rights of athletes and their presumption of innocence, such as respect for the principle that the athlete as a citizen has a right. We are also concerned - because we have not been informed - about the costs that the application of this code will generate. Mr. Minister, are new investments going to be necessary as a result of these technical and legal requirements? It's not a bad-intentioned question, it's a question for me to give the information. So far, there has been too much interventionism in the field of sport. It is necessary to democratise the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Health in Sport in order to promote plurality in decision-making in such a sensitive area as the fight against doping. I would also like the Minister to take note of this. Indeed, the will must be firm to fight for the health of our athletes, for the clarity and transparency in obtaining the sporting results, but then I want to say that we must be very proud of our athletes because most of them are clean and it is thanks to them and to them that our sport is at the highest international level. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Possibly the battle against doping is very difficult, but from my parliamentary group we consider, and we are convinced, that it is worth continuing to fight for the health of athletes and for the health of the sport itself. Therefore, and as a sign of generosity - since we do not share the forms - our parliamentary group is going to validate this royal decree-law. But you are warned, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we will not tolerate you continuing to legislate in this way because, even if you do not want to give up and sometimes there is someone who helps you, everything has changed and you can no longer rule by absolute majority. When it comes to the support of all the groups in the House, it is important to pool the issues and it is ugly that the first time we saw the text we had been asked to validate was in the BOE. I don't think this is the right way. I am absolutely convinced that the work well done will have an impact on the credibility and credit of the Higher Sports Council. I believe that in this process we have shown seriousness and rigour in the things being done well. We are in favour of a clean sport because we are against the defencelessness of our girls and young people who start out in sport; because we are against the defencelessness of sportsmen who do not want to use illicit means; because we defend a sport full of values. To preserve these values we must fight against doping, we must fight against helplessness, the defencelessness learned from young athletes who perceive themselves incapable and powerless to overcome situations of competition in flagrant injustice and inequality. We hope that with this royal decree we will be able to remove the sambenito from being lax with sport. This is an opinion that I do not share in its generality, but it is true that the fact that we have not adopted the global code so far, the closure of the Madrid laboratory and the suspension imposed by the AMA have seriously damaged the world of sport. All athletes, and that is their obligation, must know the AMA code.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u18	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u19	Our desire is to collaborate as an opposition in everything that has to do with sport, and this has already been noticed by the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u20	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u21	...that we are a serious and responsible group...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u22	Your Honor, one second.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u23	...and who knows how to oppose it because we pretend to be a government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u24	For the Socialist Group, Mr Antón Cacho has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I would like to transfer the solidarity of the Socialist Parliamentary Group with the educational community on this day of strike and mobilization. [[Applauds]] We want to tell you that we have gathered your demands and that we will continue to work to reverse the harmful consequences that the education policy of the PP has caused in the public school. On the other hand, the Socialist Party has always demonstrated its political commitment to the fight against doping and the protection of the health of the athlete. I would therefore like to begin by thanking two socialist colleagues, Mr Lissavetzky, former Secretary of State for Sport, and Mr Martín del Burgo, the first director of the Spanish Anti-Doping Agency, for their great work in the first and difficult steps to demonstrate and convince everyone that Spain wanted to be at the head of the fight against doping. As the minister has commented, today we will validate the decree-law amending the Organic Law on the protection of the health of the athlete and the fight against doping. Minister, do you know how long it has been from November 2013 to March 2017? I'm telling you, three years and four months. Since the adoption of the amendments to the global code of the Fourth World Anti-Doping Conference in November 2013 in Johannesburg, the PP Government and the ministry you chair were aware of the inexcusable obligation to amend Spanish sports legislation in this area and to adapt it to the changes introduced at this conference. In addition, it had more than a reasonable time to implement it, as these amendments did not enter into force until January 2015. That lack of diligence has had its consequences, the first has already been mentioned by you and is that the World Anti-Doping Agency, after warning it on several occasions and after several negotiations, sanctioned our country declaring it non-compliant, with the consequent loss of accreditation of the Madrid laboratory, dependent on the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Health in Sport. It is true that an agreement was reached with the international federations to carry out the necessary controls for our athletes, thus guaranteeing their participation, above all, in the Olympic and Paralympic Games and also in the international competitions. Even so, there have been other consequences; the worst for us has been the deterioration of our country's image in the fight against doping that has cost us so much to achieve. Undoubtedly it was a step back, a stain on our State's blunt struggle for zero tolerance to doping. Moreover - and this does hurt us - it offered false arguments to those who are always casting doubt on the international successes of our athletes. It is true that during this time two general elections have been held, which for many months we have had a government in office, but for our group this is no excuse. In fact, there are precedents - as has already been said - that actual decrees such as the actual decree extending the employment activation programme have been adopted. Do you remember? Therefore, if there had been political will, this could have been validated long before. It was a clear lack of political will, we cannot accept the excuses. Moreover, this situation did not occur. I'm gonna remember the dates again so everyone's got them in their heads. I know we've been talking about these dates all morning and it may be boring, but we need to get an idea of the time we've had to fix it. We have known about the change since November 2013. The Government knew that it had to adapt its legislation to it by January 2015, even the World Anti-Doping Agency itself warned us in November 2015, after several negotiations, which placed us on a list of countries under surveillance and that if we had not made that adaptation on 18 March 2016, we would become non-compliant. Mr Minister, there is therefore sufficient reason for the Socialist Group to show its opposition to what has happened in recent months. Fortunately, we don't have to start from scratch. This situation does not throw away the work, the deployment of human and technical means, the budgets and the programs developed and implemented not only by the State Anti-Doping Agency in this last legislature, but also in the legislatures of the Socialist Party between 2004 and 2012. Our past, the responsibility of the State of the Socialist Party, the coherence with the ultimate goal of this law, which is nothing other than the protection of the health of the athlete and guarantee a fair competition, leads us to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree. However, this adaptation, unlike what happened in the previous ones, has been a sin of lack of participation. It is not logical that over time, as I mentioned earlier, which has passed since the November 2013 amendment, they have been unable to seek the necessary collaboration and participation of the real protagonists of this law, who are no more than the sportsmen and their federations. It's hard to believe, but it's been like this. That is why we have reached an agreement with the President of the Higher Sports Council - and you have ratified it today because it was one of the demands - to launch immediately a stable working group involving not only parliamentary groups, but also sports associations and sports federations so that, with this commitment, we can avoid the main thing, which was the bill of this royal decree. That has been achieved, but we can also achieve something that seemed impossible until yesterday, that is, that the Higher Sports Council, even if it seems to be a lie, opened the doors to sportsmen who recently confirmed to us that they had not been meeting with the president of the Higher Sports Council for more than two years. Another very important aspect is that if this working group is set up we will certainly not make the mistakes of the last two years again and arrive in time for the amendment that will come into force in 2019. As has already been mentioned here, the novelties of this royal decree are mainly the establishment of two new sanctions, complicity and prohibited association, also increases the limitation period for infringements and the extension of sanctions. All these new developments are aimed at sanctioning the sportsman's forbidden behavior and his environment. But I would like to place particular emphasis on the need to increase educational programmes for prevention, aimed at the athlete and his environment and based on value education. Perhaps, without, of course, the guarding of controls, surveillance and investigation, we must redouble our efforts in prevention. I am convinced that a well-trained and informed athlete about the consequences of the effects of doping on his health and on his sports career is the best investment to end this scourge. On the other hand, as already mentioned, the Royal Decree contains in its final provision first the tax benefits applicable to the programme of preparation of Spanish athletes for the Tokyo 2020 Games, known by all as the ADO Plan. Regardless of the medallist in Rio de Janeiro, we know that athletes have experienced serious difficulties in the previous cycle. The contributions to this plan have fallen from EUR 51 million in London to EUR 31 million in Rio; undoubtedly the economic crisis will have had something to do, but we must do a rethink and start this new cycle looking for strategies that will allow us to capture sufficient resources and seek and try to return the collaboration and good doing that previously existed between the Higher Sports Council and the COE, which we know has not been entirely adequate in recent times with the former Secretary of State. The elite athletes don't show up out of nowhere. As you well know, there is a sports structure represented by the federations. In this regard, the subsidies granted to these organisations by the Higher Sports Council have suffered a significant decrease in recent years, from EUR 82 million in 2009 to EUR 46 million in 2016, i.e. they have had EUR 36 million less. These cuts have forced them to reduce fundamental programmes such as sports technology, the acquisition and training of new talent and, above all, support for basic sport. Minister, please recover the support for the federations, it will not happen that we have many millions for the ADO Plan, but we do not have sportsmen to award these scholarships to. Ladies and gentlemen, the last parliamentary term has not been particularly productive for sport policy. The cuts and controversies with some presidents of the federation have marked the public agenda of the Higher Sports Council. Minister, despite your absolute majority, you have left too many vital matters unsolved for sport. To begin with, and perhaps most urgently, we must face a comprehensive renewal of sport legislation because we must modernise it and adapt it to the current reality. On the other hand, it should reflect on the single licence imposed on federations by the Law on Rationalization of the Public Sector. They should withdraw it immediately because it has generated more problems than benefits and has also generated the almost unanimous rejection of the autonomous communities. We must continue to work for the equality and non-discrimination of women. We know that a number of programs have been launched, but we have recently seen cases such as those of basketball players who have had to sign abusive clauses in which pregnancy was the cause of termination of contract immediately. Don't forget the Mediterranean Games. We cannot try to convince this city that with the simple agreement of this Parliament it is enough; please support it economically. We could continue to talk about many other things that we have pending apart from the validation of this royal decree. Minister, we ask you not to profile yourself, to devote the necessary time to this area, to support your Secretary of State, to approve or at least to try to approve budget increases in this area. Do not allow sport to become the poor brother of your ministry and that we only remember when we are going to collect a medal or when we have to take a photo with a sportsman. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u26	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Muñoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am speaking on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to support the validation of the Royal Decree-Law 3/2017 of 17 February, amending Organic Law 3/2013 of 20 June, on the protection of the health of the athlete and the fight against doping in sports activity and adapting to the amendments introduced by the 2015 World Anti-Doping Code. Ladies and gentlemen, the decree we are debating today has its nature rooted in two issues which, in our view, justify it. The first is the country's need to adopt and assume the World Anti-Doping Code, not as a mere formulism, but as a reliable, tacit commitment to fighting, eradicating and persecuting doping and each and every one of the dishonest practices that distort competition and put the health of our athletes at risk. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, doping has not only its dark face in those substances that are used to improve sport performance. It has a darker side if it fits, which are the temporary or irreversible damages that these same substances can cause to the health of our athletes. These two reasons alone are certainly important enough to justify the nature of the decree. But, if I may, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a third: credibility. Spain's credibility as a country, as a country committed to the fight against doping, and the credibility that our athletes must enjoy. The Spanish athletes deserve that here today, in the Congress of Deputies, political groups make an effort to approve and validate this decree, which is undoubtedly fundamental to give them the credibility that some stakeholders have wrongly wanted to subtract in the achievement of sports successes. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a complex issue; we are dealing with an unpleasant issue, even a complicated one to discuss. We have a responsibility to raise the debate. We have the responsibility and the obligation to be flexible in it and to have empathy not only among the groups in this House but, as it could not otherwise be, with the world of sport. Sport, ladies and gentlemen, is work, it is effort, it is sacrifice, it is overcoming, it is competing and improving, it is establishing that the limits do not exist if one proposes to overcome them day by day. Sportsmen are daily examples for the youngest in our country, and the values of sport are and must be shared values and assumed by our society. For this reason, doping is undoubtedly one of the main problems we face, because doping means throwing down everything positive and good that sport represents. Fighting doping must be a common goal of each and every group in this House. Doping damages the image of sport, damages the image of sportsmen and, above all, damages the image of our country. The struggle must be firm and committed. To put an end to doping is undoubtedly the great challenge we have to face with courage and decisively and decisively. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the validation of this decree comes to give us the tools we need to be, first of all, early in the diagnosis; secondly, to be firm in the control of doping, and thirdly, diligent and effective in the fight and the sanction of the fact. But, ladies and gentlemen, it would not be fair in my intervention if she spread a cloak of suspicion over all the athletes in our country... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u29	... first, because I firmly believe that it is the least sportsmen who resort to doping in order to achieve an ephemeral glory that then becomes a social condemnation and a censorship, and second, because I firmly believe in the ethical commitment of our sportsmen not only to the sport in which they compete or participate, but also to the country they represent. To do an exercise in looking back - as most groups in this House have done today - does not come to solve the problem that we are discussing here today; to do an exercise in looking back does not come to seek the solutions that our athletes need. Pointing out, blaming or criticizing only serves as a political weapon, and it also moves us away from the good intentions that we have managed to set in the last week. With the adoption of this decree we left behind past times and set out to look at the present and the future from a situation shared by the countries of our environment and the main sports powers. In the last week the president of the Higher Sports Council has resolutely promoted each and every meeting necessary, first of all, in order to make known first hand the decree, which is nothing more than a transposition of the World Anti-Doping Code; secondly, to open the spaces for logical dialogue with the groups of this House so that, together, we can work on issues such as the one we are debating today, and thirdly, to establish a clear and firm commitment to open a working table in which we are present the political groups of this House, the sportsmen, the federations and the Council itself in order to be able to work side by side in the elaboration of the next World Anti-Doping Code, which, as your ladies and gentlemen know, will begin in May. This commitment, which I express as a spokesman and which the People's Party Government has assumed, has been endorsed today by the parliamentary minister. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is being carried out as a compliant country, and I will not be denied, ladies and gentlemen, that the change in the last few days has been quite significant for what our image as a country abroad represents. Today the AMA and the countries of the world see Spain as a committed and determined country to control and fight against doping. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are not as unfulfilled; today we can be proud to have joined the group of countries that globally share and assume the World Anti-Doping Code. Putting this status acquired two days ago at risk is not the same as the political level of this House. Running the risk, even if it were minimal, of leaving the club of the countries that comply and assume the World Anti-Doping Code is a luxury that we cannot afford. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to highlight in this debate the responsibility that the group spokesmen have had - believe me that it is much better to work with them behind closed doors than to listen to them from this rostrum - and I would like to thank them for the sensitivity they have had with our sport and with our athletes, favouring that today we can validate this royal decree. Today, thanks to the work, on the one hand, of the Government and, on the other, of the groups in this House, Spain has become part of the club of the countries complying with the code, and more importantly, we are among the countries committed to the fight against doping, and that is what is essential in today's debate. In conclusion, I would like to congratulate the spokesmen of the groups that have participated in the pre-debate meetings today for their work, readiness and good work in reaching agreement and consensus. Of all, sport policy is much better. And, of course, I would like to thank, as it could not otherwise be, our minister and the president of the Higher Sports Council for the impetus they give us today to acquire the commitment to make our sport, our sport policy, an area of dialogue, meeting and pact. Do not have the slightest doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that the world of sport will thank us. Thank you very much. [[The Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, Méndez de Vigo and Montojo, asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u30	Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u31	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the parliamentary groups for their demonstration of voting, most of them, in favour of the validation of the decree-law and also for the comments they have made during the debate. I've taken good note of them. I would stress that we will set up this working group within the Higher Sports Council with those concerned and with parliamentary groups to see how we can all contribute to a consensus state policy for the future amendment of the doping code. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u32	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u33	We now turn to the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions with dossier numbers 110/00004, 110/000005 and 110/000007 to 110/00018. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, a three-minute shift is opened for parliamentary groups to set their positions. Unless otherwise stated, the opinion shall be put to the vote by consensus with the rest of the votes scheduled at the end of today's sitting. Interventions will be made from the seats. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u34	Thank you, Madam President. We will establish a position on two of these agreements. The first is the Convention with the Republic of Montenegro for its accession to NATO. We welcome Montenegro, a newly independent State that joins the Western defence community. It is reasonable that we support this full incorporation and it also allows us to recall that, indeed, in Europe in recent decades, new independent States are being incorporated into the alliances, the European, Atlantic, political and security institutions with all the normality. It is good that the House also shares that what is standard in Europe is perhaps normal someday in this Spanish state. The second is that we are also voting on the Spanish Convention with Saudi Arabia on defence to announce that we are not going to vote in favour of this convention. It is really difficult to justify that Spain can now sell arms to Saudi Arabia. There is a de facto military intervention by Saudi Arabia in Yemen and the war material that Spain sells to Saudi Arabia will end up participating in that war. In the United Kingdom there is an open investigation into the sale of British defence material to Saudi Arabia. In addition, Saudi Arabia fails to comply with all European international human rights regulations. We have already had the opportunity to analyse and discuss in this House the case, for example, of Raif Badawi, an activist, a blogger, who has received very harsh torture and convictions in Saudi Arabia and it is not justifiable for Spain to sell this defence material to a country like Saudi Arabia. It breaks with the principles of the European Code of Conduct in this area and also breaks with our legislation on arms trade. Therefore, we cannot give any support to this agreement. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. We are going to vote against the agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the mutual protection of classified information in the field of defence and we are going to do so because, beyond the alarming human rights violations as documented by the organizations and which have a maximum exponent of the death penalty, including that of some minors when they committed the crime to participate in the Arab Spring, Saudi Arabia continues to support and at the same time continues to legitimize indiscriminate, disproportionate or deliberate bombings against the civilian population and also against civilian property such as schools, hospitals, markets and mosques, as it literally explains Amnesty International for whom some of the attacks constitute clearly war crimes. Spain, far from pressing Saudi Arabia and boycotting the sale of weapons, turns out that it does not boycott it and what it does is embrace the satraps that govern it authoritarianly denying, among others, basic rights to women, and approves the sale of five corvettes to continue fuelling the conflict in Yemen. From Esquerra Republicana we wish that the workers of Navantia in Cadiz or El Ferrol continue to have work, but not at the cost of the blood of the war crimes that are committed from the corvettes that are going to sell to Saudi Arabia. If Spain sells these corvettes, I am sorry to say, it will be absolutely complicit in the war crimes that can be committed with them. On more than one occasion, in fact, Esquerra has repeatedly called for the sale of these corvettes to be refused and for a conversion of the military industry to the civilian industry to enable the viability of industry and jobs. Now I address the comrades of Podemos. Please don't endorse this criminal sale of corvettes. Oppose this because, moreover, there is great hypocrisy when there is no prevarication on the part of the Government and all the parliamentarians who defend the sale of Navantia's corvettes to Saudi Arabia, since precisely this sale does what it does is blatantly violate article 8 of the Arms Trade Act. Finally, perhaps as an annex to these contracts, an agreement will be voted here today for military information to be classified, to be secret. I'm done. Instead of enforcing the Arms Trade Act, what they intend to do is to do it in the most absolute opacity, a real scandal and a real shame. They protect and feed on a diet, it should be said, bloodthirsty, no matter how close this one is to the Bourbons. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u37	Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u38	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I wanted to draw attention to two of the agreements submitted to the opinion of this House, which have already been mentioned earlier. Firstly, on the protocol on Montenegro's accession to NATO, we respect that a sovereign country such as Montenegro should take the decisions it needs to take within the international framework, but we do want to draw attention to the need to rethink the North-Atlantic approach, or rather the North-Atlantic approach, of our defence. As you know, there is a programme for the expansion of NATO to the East, a programme that we clearly consider to be a warrior and very little friend of peace in Europe, but it is also at a time when NATO approves, with the vote in favour of the Spanish Government, an increase in national military budgets up to 2% of GDP. About this means that Spain doubles the military budget. Why don't you tell the face, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, all the Spaniards that you want to double the military defence budget? Say it, be brave, do not be afraid and tell the truth. On the second issue I wanted to comment on, the agreement between Spain and Saudi Arabia, which has also been mentioned in this House already, the first thing to say is that the Government and its partners, both Citizens and PSOE, intend to ratify an agreement that casts more shadow over a dark relationship with a dark country. It is an agreement that covers with a veil of shame the military businesses that proliferate thanks to the friendship that certain high prebosses of the state maintain with the Saudi monarchy. This monarchy is in the antipodes of human rights. I cannot speak for lack of time about the medieval treatment given to women or the growing number of executions, but I will refer to the systematic attacks on the civilian population in Yemen. The United Nations reports about seventy-five people, most of whom are civilians, who die every day in this conflict, and I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, how many of these dead have been shed by the use of Spanish war material sold to the Saudis. What degree of complicity in these murders, because they are murders, is directly implausible to the Government of Spain? Better not to know, right? That's why we signed these kinds of agreements, not to mention. I am not going to quote either the articles of the Arms Control Act or the Code of Conduct because it does not give me time, but I would like to mention the golden rule of the Arms Trade Treaty that we signed and ratified during the People's Party government. By casting opacity it will be impossible to carry out a risk assessment of human rights violations, as required by this rule. On the contrary, this agreement was signed ex-professor to look elsewhere. It's a shame, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Sánchez Amor has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to read in connection with the Montenegrin and NATO issue a sentence of a resolution that yesterday proposed to us Podemos. He said that the Government of Spain should pursue greater sovereignty and strategic autonomy in the area of security. In other words, let us recognize the absolutely sovereign right of countries to integrate into any system of mutual protection, because when we have spoken about Ukraine it seems that Ukraine is denied that kind of right. It is true that there is a great debate in Montenegro about NATO participation. I was in the October elections and won a clearly pro-integration party in Europe and NATO, but with what excuses, like the ones you have repeated, we refuse this kind of operation? They say the destabilizing role of NATO must be neutralized. Are you referring to the incursions of Russian planes into the space of the Baltic countries? You mean the submarine that was caught in Stockholm? You mean the Russian fleet going to help with the Aleppo bombings? Are you referring to the manoeuvres not notified to NATO by Russia on the western border? They have to review their concepts. This strange connivance with the extreme European right, in its consideration of Putin, requires a review. They say that the current NATO borders must be frozen. Why? If there are countries that want to integrate into NATO, why should they be frozen, because you consider that Russia has the right to have protection over those who were former countries of the Soviet Union? Can you imagine Spain saying that Argentina, Venezuela or Costa Rica cannot do foreign policy because at some point they were part of the Spanish empire? That's what they're defending. Any country has the right to integrate into NATO if it meets the conditions, so that mere recognition that Spain has the sovereignty to do so must also apply to Montenegro. The matter of Arabia has been discussed. We have carefully examined the convention and we share the criticisms and considerations relating to human rights, the state of absolute abandonment of human rights in that country, but the agreement brought here today is not an arms sale agreement, but an agreement we signed with Arabia, Belgium and Cyprus at the same session on classified information protection. It is not for classifying information, but for when in commercial traffic between Spain and Arabia some elements are classified information it is determined which authority in one country and another has access to that information. It has nothing to do with the sale of weapons and the Spanish Government or the Spanish cannot be held responsible for what can happen to the corvettes. Why don't we hold the Gaditans accountable? Do we hold the workers of Galicia and Ferrol accountable for what can happen to the corvettes? With this matter he is going to limits that make no sense. Failure to do so in Spain will not end the conflict. Ending the Yemeni conflict requires the efforts of the international community. Spain and of course my party will be in any kind of operation we can help with, but that has nothing to do with the corvettes being made here because if they are not made here they will be made in another country and used in the way the government wants to use them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Roca Mas has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u42	Thank you very much, President. We discussed several international conventions between the Kingdom of Spain and different countries. During our democracy the different governments of Spain of the PP, PSOE and UCD have signed thousands of international conventions defending the interests of the Spanish. In international conventions no country judges the different regimes, because for that there are already international mechanisms and agencies. We only defend our national interests and therefore do not take part in conflicts with third countries. Today we renew an agreement with Saudi Arabia, a country with which we have very good relations, which benefits thousands of Spaniards who work in the construction of ships or infrastructures. Saudi Arabia has a conflict with Iran in which Spain cannot and should not take part. Today, however, We can again take part in the Iranian regime and do so against the interests of Spain. It does so because we knew that the powerful Iranian regime financed Podemos' television: 25% through a non-profit organization and 75% in envelopes with black money. [[Protests.-Applause.]] You have not come to serve people, but have come to use Spanish democracy in your interest. That is why you, with your vote today, validate everything the Iranian regime does. [[Several Members: The most corrupt party! Don't you talk!]] Do not talk about workers, because today you sacrifice them in exchange for the Iranian regime. Don't talk about lesbians, gays and transsexuals, because today you sacrifice them in exchange for the Iranian regime. Don't talk about women, because today you sacrifice them in exchange for the Iranian regime. Do not talk about democracy, because today you sacrifice it. You carry in your DNA the worst of corruption: taking money from the powerful of foreign regimes to harm your country. [[applause from the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.- Various Members of the same group: All right, Jordi! Here it hurts!-Protests and applause of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party We can-In Common May-In Sea.-Several Members of the same group: What a face! Yes, you can!]] If you do that from the opposition, what do you plan to do if you come to rule? I'm surprised and I'm very sorry that there are 5 million Spaniards who trust you. What have we done wrong? What have we done so badly? As we reflect on that, today we will defend Spain's interest and the well-being of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[applause from the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.- Various Members of the same group: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u43	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u44	We turn to the item on the debate on the whole of the draft law on explosives precursors. The Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government to introduce the bill. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u45	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you are well aware, because I have had the opportunity to make this public in this House on several occasions, I intend to build among all of us a policy of national security of harmony with dialogue and consensus, with strength in the face of threats, with security thought by and for people and, above all, with anticipation of the dangers of the present and the future. One of the goals that the Government has set for this legislature is more security for all citizens and in achieving this goal is where I frame this bill. To do this, we need to be more effective and we cannot lower our guard in the face of any possible threat. Spain has played a leading role within the European Union, making significant contributions and always collaborating with a proactive attitude. We have always supported the European initiatives launched, and what we are bringing to this debate today is one of those initiatives that have been adopted in the Council of the European Union, which adopted the decision to launch the European Union Action Plan to improve the safety of explosives, considering that certain chemical substances and mixtures are precursors of explosives and can be misused for the illicit manufacture of explosives. A Standing Committee on Precursors was established to consider measures and develop recommendations for the regulation of commercially available explosives precursors. The Committee identified several of these substances which could be used to commit terrorist attacks and recommended appropriate action at Union level, and logically the European Union acted accordingly. Regulation 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the marketing and use of explosives precursors was adopted in January 2013. This Regulation lays down clear rules on the making available, introduction, possession and use of substances or mixtures containing them which may be used improperly for the illicit manufacture of explosives. The aim is nothing other than to limit the availability to individuals and to ensure the proper communication of suspicious transactions at all stages of the supply chain, which is essential in preventing certain terrorist actions. Although this regulation has been directly applicable in the Member States since 2 September 2014, it is also true that it contains a number of forecasts which make it necessary to adopt a rule that makes it possible to implement it correctly. That is what we are bringing here today, the rule that makes it possible to apply this regulation with all its consequences, including a sanctioning regime. Our Constitution, in its article 25.1, determines that the rank of such a rule must be a law, so we present this draft law on explosive precursors. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain cannot be on the sidelines of Europe in this area. We need to be vanguard, we need to be coordinated, we need to update our regulatory framework and continue to be part of that breakthrough that works to prevent any possible terrorist action. Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to allow me to brief you on the content of this bill. Chapter I sets out as the object of the law the licensing system that allows individuals to introduce, acquire, possess or use in Spain precursors of restricted explosives, as well as the communication by economic operators of suspicious transactions and the abduction or disappearance of precursors of explosives, in addition to the sanctioning regime applicable in case of infringement of the provisions of the European Union regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, its scope is defined, which includes the substances listed in the Annexes to the European Union Regulation, including some substances that are present in products intended for individuals, such as pool cleaners, herbicides or fuels for aircraft. I give you an example, there are certain substances, such as hydrogen peroxide, nitromethane, acetone or nitric acid, which are used by individuals for legitimate purposes for various uses. Following the examples, hydrogen peroxide, commonly known as oxygenated water, is commonly used for medicinal purposes or for cleaning pools, bleaching clothes or hair. The industry uses it with higher concentrations to bleach fabrics or paper pastes, and it can also be rocket fuel. As you can see, a licit use that is very varied. However, at high concentrations it can cause spontaneous combustion in contact with organic material or some metals. I quote another example, nitromethane, which is an organic compound used as a cleaning solvent and as a basis for the manufacture of pharmaceuticals and pesticides, explosives, fibres and coatings. It is also reportedly used as fuel in racing cars and in the engines of aircraft and radio control cars. But, ladies and gentlemen, it can become a home-made explosive for terrorist attacks. That way, I could continue to give you examples, but I think you have already had a clear idea of what we are talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, the relative ease with which these substances can be obtained adds to the problem that it is easy to find videos and files on the Internet that explain how to build a bomb with all these compounds that I have just highlighted. That is why it is so important that we know who and when the transactions are made, and this chapter also includes the express referral to the Secretary of State for Security of the Ministry of the Interior, to designate the national contact point to which suspicious transactions and the abduction and disappearance of explosives precursors will be communicated. Chapter II regulates all matters relating to the licence which must be obtained, on a prior basis, by individuals who wish to acquire, possess, use or introduce into Spain precursors of restricted explosives above the permitted percentages, and it shall be compulsory to obtain the corresponding licence which, in addition, must be displayed before making any transaction with individuals and which shall have a period of up to one year. As this license is a novelty in our legal system, it is established, for convenience and to facilitate adaptation, the two-year term... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u46	One second, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. [[Pause]] Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u47	Thank you, President. He said that the two-year time limit is set for demanding the fulfilment of this obligation, and he will not be punished until then, i.e. after these two years. In addition, for safety reasons, individuals will have to report the removal or disappearance of substances authorized by the licence to the national contact point within a maximum of 48 hours from the date of their knowledge of the licence. Chapter III deals with two issues which are essential for the implementation of the rules of procedure. On the one hand, economic operators are required to keep the data for each operation for five years. Each transaction they carry out shall keep all the relevant data during these years, and this shall be done by means of an internal record of the information corresponding to each transaction. On the other hand, it is stipulated that economic operators shall report transactions with explosive precursors which they consider suspicious or where abductions or disappearances have taken place. Chapter IV regulates the applicable sanctioning regime. Ladies and gentlemen, a catalogue of very serious, serious and minor infringements is envisaged depending on whether they can be committed by economic operators or by private individuals. Although sanctions may be economic, economic operators may also be required to suspend activities authorized with explosives precursors or to revoke the licence for individuals, with the prohibition of re-obtaining it for a specified period of time. The power to punish is conferred on the Secretary of State for Security in this bill for the commission of very serious offences, on the government delegates in the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla for the commission of serious offences, and on the sub-delegates of the government in the provinces for the commission of minor offences. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude - this bill is not the result of improvisation, but rather of reflection and coordinated work in which various ministries have participated and during which it has been subjected to the procedure of public hearing. In this procedure of public hearing they have had the opportunity to participate the business Federation of the Spanish chemical industry, the National Association of Fertilizer Manufacturers and the Spanish Commercial Fertilizer Association, which represent - I make clear - most of the economic operators that are going to be affected by this norm. This includes the manufacturers, importers, freight forwarders and warehousers of the precursors, and I assure you that your considerations and suggestions have been highly valued by the ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot delay your approval any longer because this rule, as I said at the beginning of my speech, is absolutely necessary to avoid major evils, and I therefore hope to have the support in this process. If I may, I will conclude my speech with the words of the Council of State in its report on this bill, which I find very correct and definable. It says: The general assessment of the standard subject to consultation must be favourable. The proposed law will enable better compliance with the objectives of the relevant legislation, i.e. the protection of citizens and residents from explosive attacks and bombs manufactured from certain materials, and the control of subjects who trade with them for illicit purposes. In today's debate and with the possible amendments that can be tabled, I certainly believe that the text can be enriched. And I can assure you that the main objective pursued by the Government and the Ministry of the Interior with this project is to ensure the safety of citizens and residents in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u48	Thank you very much. This bill has been submitted with an amendment to the full refund by the Joint Parliamentary Group. For the defence of the amendment tabled and, if necessary, to establish a position, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u49	Thank you, President. Minister, we know that this bill is necessary for the proper implementation of the regulation; we also know, Minister, that this country is at the level of anti-terrorist alarm 4 out of 5, and we are concerned about this. [[The lady]] But it is precisely for these reasons that we do not understand that this bill does not speak of participation, intervention, integration or communication with other bodies and security forces. You know that the Mossos d ́Esquadra are the integral police in Catalonia and that they have competence in citizen security and organized crime. That is why we do not understand why the wording of this bill does not reveal the concepts to which I referred before: participation, intervention and, above all, communication. Because addressing the fight against terrorism with different bodies of the state, without communication between them, without programming between them and without participation in their actions, is undoubtedly to make the work of our security agents difficult. A bill like this should be built on the basis that the State has, which is a plural and rich basis, where different security forces coexist with different competences and responsibilities each. And cancel them or do as they do not exist, which is what this bill does - as if you would like to build a bunker to preserve the skills and work of the police and state security forces -, seems to us inappropriate at a time like the one we live in, a time when you have referred to the need to preserve and guarantee the security of the citizens of the state. Recent events remind us and you, Minister, that now more than ever coordination between bodies, the creation of spaces for debate, coordination, so that information can flow are more important than ever. Last week we had recent information and, fortunately, we did not have to regret a dramatic end. Let's slow down the call for bodies that serve for body coordination. We know the minister's predisposition, but the delay is not due to you alone, but it comes from afar. We are slowing down and, as we are slow in constituting the spaces for debate, for coordination, which we have already planned, we are looking with suspicion at a bill that does not even provide for new spaces for coordination. That is the main reason for our amendment to the whole, because we believe that a bill such as this cannot nullify or act as if there are no other security forces that should be involved in the activities, actions, coordination and, above all, the planned interventions to ensure the safety of citizens. Our amendment to the entire bill you are submitting is precisely because we believe it is dangerous to venture to pass a bill that does not provide for interaction between bodies, not only in Catalonia, but in other territories of the State that have its integral police officers. That is why we are going to maintain it and we hope to count on all those parliamentary groups who consider that interaction between police forces is absolutely essential to combat not only the fight against terrorism, but the misuse of explosives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel and Valentí. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u51	Thank you very much, President. As the Minister explained in the presentation of the project, origin is a Community standard for the identification of substances suitable for the manufacture of explosives, which gave rise to Union Regulation 98/213, on the marketing and use of precursors of explosives, i.e. chemical substances and mixtures likely to be used for the illicit manufacture of explosives. On this basis, this bill aims to control transactions between economic operators, thus preventing their illegal diversion and employment to undermine the safety of persons. To this end, the project is based on two fundamental axes: the requirement of a licence for the individuals who will have these substances and the obligation to provide the data of these transactions, as well as the communication of suspicious transactions and disappearances and thefts. A sanctioning regime is established in correspondence, determining for this purpose the Secretariat of State as the competent authority to grant the licence as a national point of contact for the communication of transactions and withdrawals and the imposition of sanctions. It is in this set of powers and functions exclusively to the organs of the State, basically the Secretariat of State for Security, where we express our discrepancy with the draft law. We do not share the view that the autonomous communities with competence in their own police and with full police should be completely dispensed with in order to ensure that they have the information provided by the pre-legislator's text, especially when the ultimate objective of the controls is to prevent, precisely, the manufacture of explosives that can be used to undermine the safety of people, that is, one of the essential functions that an integral police must perform, as in this case, the Mossos and Ertzaintza themselves. However, the text of the draft entrusts generic preventive control to purely administrative bodies, putting forward all the regulations at a pre-policing stage, thus omitting the existence, as I said, of autonomous police bodies which are directly linked to the objectives sought by the draft law and as a precedent in the same regulation of the Union mentioned above and not knowing that in the field of public security it has two areas according to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. One, a purely legal dimension, consisting of a series of administrative powers of different nature and purpose to the dimension itself police material, but which are indistinct from this latter area because it is inherent and complementary, that is, a legal dimension and a police material dimension. Even the same ruling of the Constitutional Court 235/2001, moving away from that other jurisprudence cited and in a case close to which we are now discussing as was the prosecution of Law 3/1996, on measures for the control of chemicals susceptible to the illicit manufacture of drugs - an equivalent case - stated that - and I read literally - within the inconcrete definition of the acts proper to the police forces, it would not have been constitutionally rebuttable that the control attributed to the organs of the ministry could have been attributed to police forces also autonomous as an activity inherent in or complementary to their own. In this project the pre-legislator has not opted for this alternative, constitutionally admitted by the Constitutional Court. That is why we express our discrepancy. On the other hand, if this draft is finally taken into consideration by this Legislative Chamber, we will formulate the appropriate amendments so that the integral autonomous police, such as the Ertzaintza, are considered as a point of contact in their respective territorial scope for the purposes of Article 3 of the draft, in addition to requiring the articulation of mechanisms for the exchange of information on the licences granted and on the transactions of explosives precursors carried out by economic operators in accordance with the terms provided for by law, since, as encouraged by the Constitutional Court in the above-mentioned Judgment 235/2001, it is information that could be relevant for the effective implementation of reactive police measures that should, in their case, be implemented and, in their case, by the autonomous police themselves. We will therefore put the amendments in the explicit sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I understand that discussing such an unsexy issue today morning can even turn out to be boring for many. However, we believe that this royal decree brought by the Government is important and necessary; necessary for the industry because it is also obliged as a manufacturer, storekeeper and distributor of this type of products to have a regulation. Liberal parties do not like regulation very much, we do not like that we have to legislate and regulate on how to limit on many occasions the work of all these professionals who are dedicated to doing with these products something good for society and not evil. But we understand that the sense of state must prevail here in the security and security of all Spaniards is the basic principle that must govern in cases like this. We are therefore prepared to regulate these types of activities in the interests of the safety of all. Ladies and gentlemen, more than a third of those detained in Spain for activities related to the Islamic State since mid-2013 have been immersed in terrorist cells. Many of them at the time of their arrest had documents explaining how to prepare attacks on such explosives. Moreover, you have it on Youtube, it's not very difficult. This shows that prevention is necessary to understand that such activities need to be regulated. In addition, the news that appears continuously in the press is worrying, where terrorist threats and jihadist threats are collected, in which they talk about reconquering Al Andalus or performing jihad in Spain. First of all, we must be careful. Without going any further, ladies and gentlemen, the Civil Guard found yesterday in Guipúzcoa an ETA zule with explosives. This means that the threat has not fallen, that it is there and that we must therefore remain vigilant before it. Faced with this scenario, delaying for partisan purposes the processing of this bill when the safety of our citizens today is more at stake than ever before, is a real irresponsible lack of justification. Gentlemen who have proposed the amendment to the whole without alternative text, gentlemen of the former Convergence, do you know who was a precursor? Mr Millet, that was a precursor, but not a precursor of explosives, but of 3%, 4% and 5%. [[Applauds]] That's a precursor. It is not reasonable for us that the alleged omission to which you refer in your amendment to the whole should lead to the return of a bill like this. This is a bill that is important for the safety of all citizens and I say one thing to you: This return contains an unacceptable effect for us, which is to further delay the incorporation into our legal system of appropriate and necessary rules to deal with terrorism and this threat. We believe that this future law should be of particular relevance at this important moment as our system lacks specific regulations to regulate these transactions. Spanish society needs our legal system to be based on rules capable of dealing with the terrorist threat through a legislative procedure in which any changes that are appropriate for regulation can be made. This amendment, which you are presenting, ladies and gentlemen of the Catalan Democratic Party, has a single motivation, and is that the participation of the Mossos d'Esquadra in this bill is not envisaged. If you want to include it, save this aspect in the way of amendments, put forward a timely amendment, put forward an amendment in its entirety, but with an articulated text. We believe that the parliamentary procedure is established and regulated to allow all groups to participate in the drafting of laws, to meet the political objectives that each parliamentary group considers appropriate and that are lawful within this House, ladies and gentlemen. But what is not lawful, from our point of view, is to try to delay the entry into force of a bill that is urgent and important to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, returning this bill, taking into account the interests at stake, is a real misunderstanding and irresponsibility on the part of the proposing group. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Miquel, your group has tabled this amendment in its entirety, raising, among other things, the question of competence between the different police forces. The competencies between the different security forces and bodies are basically covered by Law 2/1986. It is true that there are competition problems, but not only with the autonomous police, but also between the National Police and the Civil Guard, for example, in the area of coordination. In this law we are going to discuss the creation of a register, but it is that even today the National Police and the Civil Guard do not share the same database and we are talking about two police forces that are integrated into the same ministry, so the other will be more difficult. That is to say, we have pending and the reform of Law 2/1986 is urgent. But the problem does not arise with this law on explosives precursors, the problem is in Law 2/1986, a law that has become obsolete and that it is impossible to meet the objectives for which it was created, because after thirty years and with what has changed public security since then, it cannot achieve the objectives for which it was created. You will not find - I take this opportunity to tell the minister too - any police union, any Civil Guard association or any collective that defends Law 2/1986. That is to say, they are also waiting, because it is urgent, for reform to be carried out, so that there are no competition problems. I think this is a good time because, as you yourself said, we are on alert 4 and the issues of terrorism at European Union and national level are extremely important. As I say, this law is obsolete and outdated. Having said that, I must also say that we are not going to solve the problems of the Spanish police system by not approving or being against this law on explosives precursors. The background to the draft law dates back to 18 April 2008, when the Council of the European Union adopted the European Union Action Plan to improve the safety of explosives. The objective of this plan was to strengthen the control of illicitly manufactured explosives and to reduce the risk of access by the general public to a level of substances and mixtures that can be used as precursors of explosives. This plan adopted the regulation, which seeks to regulate mainly the marketing and use of explosives precursors. This regulation arose as a result of Europe-wide concern about the threat to public security posed by terrorism and other serious criminal activities related to organized crime. The terrorist attacks that have ended hundreds of people's lives are still present in the retina and memory of Europeans. The constant terrorist threats have forced European countries to work on policies and rules that prevent and neutralize these threats, and this is the reason for the European Union's regulation; that is, to establish a mechanism for coordination between States and to control the economic transactions that take place daily in our countries, in which particular substances and mixtures that can be used for the illicit manufacture of explosives are made available. This mechanism includes harmonised rules on the introduction, possession and use of explosives precursors. However, this regulation contains a number of provisions that make it necessary to pass a law in each State so that it can be properly implemented, such as the rules governing the granting of licences to private individuals for the acquisition and use of explosives precursors; or anything related to the sanctioning regime in cases of non-compliance with this regulation. Our group will always support measures to pursue terrorism. That said, legislative measures must scrupulously respect the rule of law, i.e. the fundamental freedoms and rights of all persons. The rules must be aimed at the search for peace and security. It is therefore logical that we should legislate on mechanisms to prevent and anticipate terrorist threats. That is what this bill deals with, to regulate the use of those substances that can be used as precursors of explosives. Of course, it must be respectful of the rule of law. We advocate strengthening the rule of law and not cutting the rule of law. It is therefore important that the rules, when applied, do not have a dual intention of cutting rights with the aim of combating terrorism at European level. We therefore believe that it is important to implement this regulation, which is also an obligation of the European Union, and we believe that it can serve to improve and strengthen the rule of law and, logically, to combat terrorism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Delgado Ramos. Mrs Botella Gómez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u57	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment to the full refund submitted by the Party Democrata Català, signed by its spokesman, Mr Homs, does not enjoy the opportunity or respect the spirit of the draft law or the general interest, by causing an unnecessary delay that would accumulate the one already caused by Mr Rajoy's current government; a delay that has caused the European Commission to initiate proceedings against Spain on 30 September 2016 for non-compliance; a delay that has been denounced by the Council of State itself, which clearly points out in its opinion of November 2016 that it is appropriate to deal with more urgent preliminary drafts such as the one that is now under consultation. The need for greater control and security in access to substances that could be used as explosives has been widely addressed here, so I will not entertain myself about it, but I must say that our group believes that, for national security, it is appropriate to recover the lost time. It is for this reason that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not in favour of the return of the draft and will therefore vote against the amendment by the PDECAT. We in the Socialist Group believe that the issues that have been raised as a factor of amendment to the whole can be perfectly reflected in the subsequent regulatory development and its handling, and that they are certainly not grounds for return. Moreover, in the case of competence, which would be a central issue, through the Constitution and the Organic Law of the State Security Forces and Bodies, it is clearly focused as a competence of the State and as an exclusive competence of the Civil Guard. But I tell you more, the same Organic Law on State Security Forces and Bodies guarantees and establishes the appropriate mechanisms for such collaboration and coordination between the various State Security Forces and Bodies and the different autonomous communities, and focuses the coordination bodies. But that is not the real problem; the problem, ladies and gentlemen, above all of the Catalan Democratic Party, is not the draft law on explosives precursors or the State Security Forces and Corpses or the Mossos d'Esquadra - in short, all these arguments that have been made now - but the lack of institutional loyalty and that the information does not flow as it should between the Government of Spain and the Generalitat of Catalonia. The problem is that neither the Generalitat nor the Ministry of the Interior, under the mandate of the PP, are using all the coordination mechanisms and bodies established by the law. The problem is that the Security Board of Catalonia, which is the competent body of collaboration between the State Security Forces and the Mossos d'Esquadra, has not met for eight years, since the time of Minister Rubalcaba. [[The lady]] The problem is that one and the other, PDECAT - former Convergence, which is very current today - and the People's Party, have both serious problems before the courts for alleged irregular financing and both have been very attentive to the business when Convergence and the People's Party agreed to the Private Security Act while the socialists were already reporting political police actions in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] We Socialists warned and you remembered, and the problem is that all that, business, alleged irregular financing, political police, private security distracts you from the main thing, which is to guarantee the safety of all, ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to guarantee the safety of Catalans and Spaniards. So the question is what is happening in this country when the incompetence and irresponsibility of a government, on the one hand, and the terrible cases of corruption for alleged irregular financing, which are destroying both the former Convergence and the People's Party, on the other, than the very explosive substances we are now legislating on, can be more explosive. What is happening with this Government of the People's Party that in the process of dealing with this draft law has contributed to the deficiencies that have already been pointed out by the Council of State, with participations as important for this draft law as that of the Ministry of Defence, the Permanent Interministerial Commission on Arms and Explosives, the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data or the National Council for Civil Protection? That's what we have to worry about. We believe that we are going to have to employ ourselves quite thoroughly in the processing of this law in the Committee on the Interior to remedy this old stage of Minister Fernández Díaz, and I hope that in the new stage, with Minister Zoido at the head, we can really bring forward this bill on which, as we said all of us who have intervened here, we must have as our main objective the safety of all Spaniards. Good dose of work and general interest is what we need now, and the whole amendment we need to put forward is an amendment to institutional loyalty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u58	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by congratulating the comrades of the State Security Forces and the autonomous police for the constant and daily struggle they make for a safer Spain against terrorism and organised crime. Although I did not want to do so, I want to start by saying that today the Socialist Party was recriminating the People's Party because it had taken a while to bring this bill. That will have been because of the political blockade to which you have submitted to this country, because precisely one month after being appointed the minister has submitted this bill to the Council of Ministers; it has taken thirty days to present the bill. [[Applauds]] The blockade was your fault. Ladies and gentlemen, we discussed this bill and applauded it. It was very necessary. It is the first commitment to security, the commitment that the Minister made in the Committee on the Interior. We, like the European Union, are subjected to the barbarity of jihadist terrorism and organized crime, the greatest threat facing the societies we want to live in freedom and equality. I would like to point out - and the minister has already done this - that Spain is at the 4th out of 5 alert level and that when we face this phenomenon we have to do it with the colleagues of the European Union and that is why this law is the result of that regulation that the European Union has adopted for all the countries of the Union. [[Rumors]] As you know, products as harmless as we have at home as detergent, bleach, toothpaste or shampoo can be a weapon of destruction, as has happened in Oslo, in the UK attacks or as has happened recently in Paris and Brussels. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u60	One second, Mrs. Vazquez. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u61	And the ministry before this, given the two options of banning or allowing sale under license, allowed the sale under license, because it did not want to cause economic harm to the distributors and traders of this country, allowing even two years to adapt to this norm. It also obliged the communication to be made in the event of the removal of these explosives or substances that may result in explosives. There has been talk here of respect for the coordination of the State Security Forces and Bodies, but, look, the priority is the security of people; the Secretary of State for Security said the other day: the priority is the security of people. We have been talking about coordination for a long time, but today is not the time, today we are talking about how to better protect our citizens, our compatriots, and we cannot get into a coordination debate that I can tell you - I have been here since 2000 - that is tiring; since 2000 we have been talking about the same thing. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Catalan Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to the whole without alternative text. I wanted to study that alternative text, but they have not presented it, they have simply defended their sovereignist discourse, their discourse of separation with Spain and their discourse of helping institutions when what they have to defend is the security of people above the security of institutions. The Constitution, in article 149.1.26.a, clearly states that the State has jurisdiction over explosives. The Citizens'Security Act also clearly states that competition in drug and explosive precursors is a matter for the State and there are repeated sentences. Terrorism and organized crime do not understand Catalan territory. We have in mind what happened in Mina Conchita. He left Burgos, from Burgos passed through several localities of Asturias and Asturias ended up on trains in Madrid where he never had to arrive. There are no territories for terrorism. That is why I ask you to reach a consensus with this law, which is necessary, and to try within this time frame of amendments, which has been extended by the People's Parliamentary Group, to reach an agreement, to the larger agreement. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I did not want to talk about this, but I find it shameful that in a law that we are talking about explosives and the security of citizens you are talking about party funding again and again. I tell you one thing, here the only party that has two ex-presidents at the national level charged is the Socialist Party, Griñán and Chaves, so don't give democracy lessons to the other parties. [[Applauds]] And institutional respect for Congress should all have it, and today we should be talking about this law that is going to make a country safer in the face of terror. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u62	Thank you very much. The vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u63	We begin with the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, Royal Decree-Law 3/2017 of 17 February, amending Organic Law 3/2013 of 20 June, on the protection of the health of the athlete and the fight against doping in sports activity and adapting to the amendments introduced by the World Anti-Doping Code 2015. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 335 votes in favour, 327 votes in favour, 329 votes against, 4 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u64	It was adopted. We then proceed to the request for the processing of this royal decree-law as a bill by the urgency procedure. We shall proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 334 plus 2 telematics votes, 336; 7 plus 1 telematics vote, 8; 327 plus 1 telematics vote, 328.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u65	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u66	We shall now proceed to the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. First, Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Montenegro, done at Brussels on 19 May 2016. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 257 against, 69 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u67	It was adopted. - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE KINGDOM OF SAUDI ARABIA ON MUTUAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION IN THE FIELD OF DEFENCE, DONE IN MADRID ON 26 SEPTEMBER 2016. [[File number 110/000017]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u68	We then turn to the Agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the mutual protection of classified information in the field of defence, done in Madrid on 26 September 2016. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 243 against, 86 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u69	It was adopted. - TERMS OF REFERENCE BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE UNITED NATIONS FOR THE CELEBRATION IN MADRID, IN NOVEMBER 2015, OF THREE INTERNATIONAL MEETINGS ON THE REGISTRATION OF EMISSIONS AND TRANSFER OF CONTAMINANTS, DONE IN MADRID AND JANUARY 26 OCTOBER AND 13 NOVEMBER 2015. [[File number 110/00004]] - PROTOCOL ADDITIONAL TO THE CONVENTION ON THE TRANSLATION OF PERSONS CONDENED, DONE IN STRASBOURG ON 18 DECEMBER 1997, AND DECLARATION THAT SPAIN WANTS TO FORM. [[File number 110/000005]] - PROTOCOL ADDITIONAL TO THE CONVENTION AGAINST DOPPING, DONE IN VARSOVIA ON 12 SEPTEMBER 2002, AND DECLARATION THAT SPAIN WANTS TO FORM. [[File number 110/000007]] - SECOND PROTOCOL ADDITIONAL TO THE EUROPEAN CONVENTION ON JUDICIAL ASSISTANCE IN CRIMINAL MATTERS, DONE IN STRASBURG ON 8 NOVEMBER 2001, AND DECLARATION THAT SPAIN WANTS TO FORM. [[File number 110/000008]] - DEFENCE COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE EASTERN REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY, DONE IN MONTEVIDE ON MARCH 26, 2015. [[File number 110/000009]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE PORTUGUESE REPUBLIC OF DEFENCE COOPERATION, DONE IN BAIONA ON 22 JUNE 2015. [[File number 110/000010]] - Memorandum of Understanding on Logistical Support at the Useful Life Phase and Cooperation Activities relating to LEOPARD 1 and LEOPARD 2 systems, made on August 1, 2012, and a statement that Spain wishes to form. [[ISS]] [[File number 110/000011]] - COLLABORATION AND COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THEIR MEMBER STATES, ON THE ONE PARTY, AND THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAJISTAN, ON THE OTHER PARTY, ON 21 DECEMBER 2015. [[File number 110/000012]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM FOR THE EXCHANGE AND RECIPROCAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE IN BRUSSELS ON 15 OCTOBER 2015. [[File number 110/000014]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS ON RECIPROCAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE IN MADRID ON 19 JANUARY 2016. [[File number 110/000015]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN SPAIN AND HUNGARY ON EXCHANGE AND RECIPROCAL PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE IN BUDAPEST ON 15 JUNE 2016. [[File number 110/000016]] - TREATY ON MUTUAL JUDICIAL ASSISTANCE IN CRIMINAL MATTERS BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM, DONE IN MADRID ON 18 SEPTEMBER 2015. [[File number 110/000018]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u70	We shall now proceed to the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on agreements in the joint vote on the following two matters which you have divided and I shall not read them. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 324 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u71	They are approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u72	We now proceed to vote on the debates on all legislative initiatives. Firstly, we voted for the amendment to the full refund of the draft law on explosives precursors submitted by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Homs. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 2 telematics votes, 337; in favour, 20; against, 305 plus 2 telematics votes, 307; abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u73	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u74	We then voted in favour of the House's motion for a ruling on the final deliberation and vote on the draft law on explosives precursors tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Homs. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 92 against, 243.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u75	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u76	We shall now proceed to vote on the request by the plenary of the House for the deliberation and final vote of the draft law on procurement procedures in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors transposing Directive 2014/25/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 submitted by the Joint Parliamentary and Confederal Groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 335 plus 2 telematics votes, 337; in favour, 124; against, 211 plus 2 telematics votes, 213.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-09-CD170309.u77	It's rejected. The meeting rose. It was eleven and fifty minutes from noon.
