ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure, and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda, in the sense of including as the last item of the sitting on Thursday 30 November the request for an extension of eight months from the deadline granted to the Sub-Commission for the consideration of the reform of the special scheme of self-employed or self-employed persons for the issue of its report. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. On the other hand, I should like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that today's sitting will not have any votes to coincide with the Senate plenary, so all votes in this plenary will be held at the end of Thursday's sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u2	We now begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the item on the agenda concerning the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, a regulator of external academic practices. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u3	President, ladies and gentlemen, do you know why the 1978 Constitutional Pact reached the twenty-first century without a single answer and with a majority consensus? Was it because Adolfo Suarez was an exemplary statesman? Was it because Santiago Carrillo was very generous, or because the politicians of the past were made of another paste and knew how to reach broad agreements? I don't think that's why. The broad social consensus that emerged from the struggles in the Transition had to do with guarantees - or at least with their expectation - for a large part of our population. It had to do with guarantees, for example, that you would be able to get a more or less stable job; guarantees that when you retired you would have a decent pension; guarantees that you would be able to access a home for yourself and your family, and even, if things went well that year, you had a chance to go on vacation. Of course, no one doubted either that you would be able to be cared for in one of the best public health systems in the world, and with education it was the same: you knew that if you worked hard and your daughter or son worked hard, there was a great chance that they would finish their studies and get a good job, a better future. This worked well for decades, but real estate speculation, bubble burst, cuts and austerity policies arrived. That consensus blew up, essentially all that had to do with the latter. The social elevator, that famous social elevator that so clearly had our mothers and fathers, also our grandmothers and grandparents, that expectation of living better, disappeared from a feather, vanished. Every generation that comes now lives worse than the previous one, there is no security of anything, there is no guarantee of anything; hundreds of thousands of people killed themselves to study imagining the future they had promised them and now what do they have? A job of fellows and in some cases, if they're lucky, they even charge and everything. Do you remember that famous 15-M scream from 'It's not a crisis, it's a scam'? Well, that's basically it. How bad the labor market has to be in our country so that every time I come up to this rostrum comes to talk about people who work for free. Call me crazy, but to me this free work without contributions, without remuneration and without control, seems to me to be nonsense anywhere in the world, but even more so in the fourth most powerful economy in the euro area. And I am not inventing this; the latest study by the European Commission in this regard indicates that 61% of students in practice in Spain do not receive financial compensation for them, 61%! With this bill we intend to regulate the situation and dignify the conditions of hundreds of thousands of people who are destined to be key parts in the future of our country. We plan things such as having a contract of employment, contributing to Social Security for the hours worked, having to do with the studies that have been completed and receiving a salary, at least, proportional to the SMI. It also seems to us a little common sense that the number of internship students is limited depending on the size of the company's staff - I think it has its logic - or that a company that has just presented an ERE cannot use fellows in the following months to replace dismissed workers. I don't know, as I said before, call me crazy, but I don't think there's a sensible reason why someone can vote against this, unless, of course, they enjoy watching our country's present and future go to the airports. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u4	Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to thank the organizations and collectives present here today who have collaborated with us in the drafting of this law. Many thanks to the Council of Youth of Spain, the Office of Complutense Practices, the trade unions Workers' Commissions and UGT and also thanks to the Precarious Office. Thank you very much for your cooperation because without you this would not be possible. [[Applauds]] I will begin by briefly telling the story of this law, because, in part, it is also the story of a generation I think you should know. It was 2012 and a handful of activists from the 15-M gathered to launch the Precarious Office, a collective that sought to combat the new forms of precariousness, especially those that were not yet being reached by the traditional trade unions. Yes, while we were coming together to do this; others who sit here, or should sit here, were coming together to rescue the banks that ruined their party mates and to distribute envelopes. Pretty different, isn't it? Well, each one does his own thing, which belongs to him, anyway. We started from the analysis that the employment regulations in Spain not only unprotect workers, but that, as with the tax system, there are numerous holes through which fraud and precariousness are glued. Of these holes, one of the most noteworthy were the scholarships in fraud, i.e. the widespread use of training practices to replace jobs. We note how many companies used high youth unemployment to offer all kinds of practices to university and VET students, but also to young people who had already completed their studies; practices that in most cases were not used for their training purpose, but to replace jobs and that companies could incorporate skilled workers at zero cost. A tremendous business. A study published by the European Commission in 2013 gave us the reason for this and said that 72% of fellows have a workload similar to that of contract staff and 61% of fellows do not receive any compensation for their duties. After learning about this data, we thought of launching a campaign to get testimonies from fellows affected by the situation and also encourage them to report to the Labour Inspectorate. We've received over three hundred cases. I'll just read you a couple that I think reflect quite well the problem. Marta, twenty-two years old, from Madrid: I do extracurricular practices covering as an intern a maternity leave. I haven't been trained or tutored. Not only did they not hire me, but they also forced me to train another fellow who would replace me as a tutor. Ana, twenty-five years old, from Barcelona: Work as a fellow in a large company in the technological sector, is the third time that I work as a fellow and I have not yet contributed a single day to Social Security. I've heard the manager of my department say he loves interns because we're cheaper, more efficient and much more motivated. At that time we wondered how many cases there would be like these and, despite the absence of official figures, crossing data from the Social Security and the European Commission, we estimated that there were 150 000 young people who could be in this situation. This 'baccare' of employment, far from being an isolated case, is part of a growing trend, the tendency of atypical employment in which phenomena such as the riders of Deliveroo or the interns of Jordi Cruz are embedded, phenomena of overemployment that open gaps in the already ill-equipped building of labor law, turning the Workers' Statute into wet paper. And they are gaps that the Government does not rush to close, perhaps because they serve it to make up the unemployment figures, but look, ladies and gentlemen, it is not that the recovery has not reached the young, it is that to some extent this recovery is based on the sacrifice of a generation, a deceived generation who were told that if he studied, that if he was cured, he would get a job of quality, but that for many years he sees that the only thing that they offer him is unemployment, precariousness or emigration, what Mrs Báñez called in this House the external mobility or adventurous spirit. Young Spaniards have a competitive disadvantage with respect to their European counterparts: in Spain the PP governs and for the PP Spain is not a country for young people. The youth unemployment rate is 44% compared to 20% of the European average; the temporaryity of young people in Spain is 70% compared to 50% of the European average, and this leads to the age of emancipation of young people occurring three years after what occurs in the rest of the European Union, and ten years later than the Swedish, an almost unattainable target. This situation not only hampers the working life of young people and their ability to emancipate themselves and form a family, but also constitutes a precarious labour market, a productive model specialized in low productivity that expels talent and affects the system as a whole, pushing down wages and jeopardizing the sustainability of social security and the welfare state. The fraud scholarships are just one more piece within the precarious maze that young people face, but probably the easiest to solve, so when we arrived at Congress one of the first things we did was to present a non-law proposal to regulate the situation of the fellows, which was approved by the Employment Commission with votes in favour of all groups, less the People's Party. Well, today that we bring here the bill, I hope that no group will back down and do not change their minds now that it is serious. This law proposes measures to eliminate the fraud of scholarships, to guarantee minimum rights for students in practice and, above all, to ensure that practices serve the role they have to serve; that is, for the training function, to facilitate the transition between academic and professional life. To avoid scholarships in fraud we propose the limitation of company practices to those contained in the curriculum, to curricular practices, eliminating extracurricular practices, which is where the greatest amount of fraud is concentrated. In order to avoid the replacement of workers by fellows, a limit of fellows per company is established according to their size and is excluded from the agreements of practice to companies that have carried out ERE or dismissals in the department where they want to join. In order to encourage the recruitment of post-practice fellows, we encourage the employment contract in practice, so that companies can hire through this formula provided for in the Workers' Statute and entitled to students who have completed 50% of the studies. This is a type of contract that is currently completely out of use precisely because of the replacement effect of the fraud scholarships. To ensure the quality of the practices and the law of the students, we propose the status of the fellows, this implies that the fellows will be entitled to receive a remuneration on the basis of the SMI in addition to the costs of transport and maintenance, and they will also have a personalized tutor who will guarantee the quality of the practices and their training content. We also limit the number of hours in which they can develop practices so that they can combine their work and academic lives. I'm done. This law will definitely solve a problem that is suffering 150 000 young people in this country, and we therefore hope that they will vote in favour, because this Parliament owes it to a generation that have ignored, abused and humiliated, a generation that was called nini while being left homeless, without a curry and without a pension; it owes it to a generation that should be admired for having filled the streets with joy to demand more democracy, it owes it to a generation, in the end, which, despite the uncertainty to which it is subjected, proves every day that it is not afraid. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u6	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. This takes into account external university academic practices and promotes more demanding regulation to avoid fraud and abuse of our university students around the obligation to carry them out to complete the degree, make resume and take experience. Although almost three and a half years ago Spain made adaptations to the new management of official university education introduced by demands arising from the process of building the European Higher Education Area, the reality is that there are still loopholes that make possible the fraudulent conversion of student stays in companies that end up using them from very cheap or free labour, replacing the job provision itself. It should also be noted that there is a lack of inspectors to pursue the devices that allow the exploitation of preparation and talent at zero cost. The royal decree that specified the regulation of external university practices then counted on the place of the Council of Universities, the General Conference of University Policy and the Council of University Students of the State, but the Forum seems appropriate this opportunity to promote the curricular and extracurricular practices, to further clarify the student incorporation into the practices and to promote access to employment and employability, which goes far beyond the mere adaptation or legislative modification because it also needs, above all, the involvement of academic institutions and companies. It is very important this involvement to narrow today the abyssal separation between university and labor reality and to address a process of transcendental silence in order to avoid the misery and forced periplo of our future graduates, the best prepared in history, towards other countries in search of job opportunities that they do not find here. In 2016, of the approximately 70,000 grantees who received some remuneration and registered as high in the social security system, 3558 training contracts and about 250 average contracts were analysed in Asturias in each of the months of the current financial year 2017. The figures confirm the improved indicators of university academic practice and justify a better law in this regard to correct fraud and precariousness. I conclude by stating that the primary purpose of external-university practices is to contribute to the student's training, not to benefit from it. A law that corrects problems and puts an end to abuses relating to external university practices has to be useful and hence my vote in favour of this consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u9	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I say that my group's vote will be in favour of taking this initiative into consideration because our will is to open the debate and discuss a subject that clearly affects thousands and thousands of young people not only in Catalonia, but throughout the Spanish State. That is why, because we know, some in their own flesh and others not so directly, the abuses that are committed in the framework of labour practices and how under an umbrella, that of external labour practices, there are abuses and complex situations on the part of students in practices and employers, we see well regulated in the framework of this statute rights and obligations of all those involved, of all, of each other. Although we disagree quite with the text proposed here today, because we do not see well some of the things proposed in the text: we do not see well the table that is presented of maximums according to sizes of templates and we do not see well the payment that is charged to companies because we believe it closes the pool of students' opportunities. Nevertheless, we believe that this is a good opportunity to open the debate and an opportunity that we want to take advantage of for young people to have more opportunities and better conditions. If the will of the group presenting the initiative is to open a debate on this issue, they will find us ready to talk, to discuss, to put forward proposals so that the framework of business practices is much better, more reliable and, above all, has much more guarantees for young people in this country.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u10	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. Mrs Arratsade on, ladies and gentlemen. Undoubtedly, the high rate of youth unemployment and the poor quality of employment of young people who currently have access to it are two issues that are socially concerned. In the context of government action, in the development of active employment policies, it has been found that one of the aspects which has a significant negative impact on these two issues - unemployment and job insecurity - is the enormous difficulty in the transition to employment from the educational stage. So far I think we would all agree, but we are faced with a proposal for a law that has been put forward by the Confederal Group of the United States. We can, in relation to this, ask myself the following question: To eradicate that situation, to solve that problem is only possible from the solution that you propose? Our answer is that we doubt that the solution you propose is the best. In recent times, it has been noted that among the above-mentioned formulas to facilitate the transition from education to employment, the various formulas of dual training which are so successful, for example, in Euskadi, stand out for their notorious efficiency, as well as for the practical absence of fraud in their development, which have produced very good results both in terms of improving qualifications and of an effective bridge between the education system and the world of work. The aim is to increase the participation of enterprises in vocational training programmes. What are the mechanisms envisaged in the current legal system, in the legislation, to address this issue? First, Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015, which provides for a contract in practice and a contract for training and learning. Second, Royal Decree 592/2014, on external academic practices of university students, which includes curricular and extracurricular practices. And thirdly, Royal Decree 1543/2011, on non-working practices in enterprises. In view of this, as a precedent for shaping our position on this issue, I said that the solution they propose does not seem right to us. Why? Because they start from an original sin, if I may express it. They start from a maximalist criterion - everything is very bad - to give a maximalist solution, a bill that rules, that rules, that controls, that dominates the situation in this matter. The present proposal for a law, presented by the Confederal Parliamentary Group, in its preamble, describes fraud as widespread. He says that it is a barrier to entry into the labour market under decent working conditions, putting them in chains of practices without workers' own rights and on many occasions without remuneration. It also notes that this situation, which affects an indeterminate number of people, is due to the fact that many of these practices are managed by entities managing outside practices. We could agree that many of these situations are not well managed and we could agree on the bridge between what is practical, training and job initiation and how to manage that very complicated situation. But we believe that they reiterate almost the entire articulation of Royal Decree 592/2014, the regulation of educational cooperation agreements. By marking our position, we would say that, on the one hand, this proposal for a law does not address in its entirety the problem of the much needed bridge from the education system to employment. On the other hand, it does not seem precise or necessary to raise the level of this regulation to the formal rule of law, especially since it covers in a comprehensive way issues that should be the subject of the agreements to be signed between the university and the collaborating entities. On the other hand, it intends to transfer to a law a practice developed - certainly with certainty, I do not doubt - at the Complutense University of Madrid, as it is expressly stated laudatoryly in the explanatory statement. Moreover, from a competitive point of view, comprehensive regulation - because it is not just regulation, but the comprehensive regulation that we do not have time to develop because you raise the type of contract, hours, remuneration and the whole scope of this issue - would certainly considerably limit the possibility of development and execution by the autonomous communities. Another issue to consider with regard to the content of this proposal for a law is the imposition of the costs of developing practices on entrepreneurs who welcome students through this formula; it would undoubtedly limit the precise extent of the practice of this curriculum, in which they should be jointly responsible to the public authorities and universities. But I also think he doesn't trust universities, that is, he takes away the capacity that each university can have within its university autonomy to organize the kind of practices it wants and how to do it. Is all practices the same? Is it that all the companies where people have to do the practices are the same? Are the practices of a milling faucet the same as those of a nursing student for whom almost 90% of his activity is going to be practical? Therefore, I think it limits the objective of the external practices of the student to those related to the academic curriculum. Likewise, it limits the interest of students, adjusting them to aspects that have nothing to do with academic development. I don't think he recognizes university autonomy enough either, as we said. Its proposal for a law focuses too much on the negative aspects and the alleged frauds of current practice and regulation, mostly linked to companies and public administrations, although universities themselves are also under suspicion. I mean it would involve a huge bureaucratic effort to put this bill into effect, but I accept that that cannot be an obstacle to its development if it is to be developed. The question I ask myself is: with the current legislation that we have, with the capacity of universities and autonomous communities to govern this issue, is it not possible that in some places it is not being done well, but that it is not a problem of legislation? Do you believe that a law that regulates this would truly cover the needs and solve the problems of practices that exist? My group believes that no, that there is no need for a specific law regulating this matter, because with the legislation that is available and with the capacity that both the university and the enterprises and the autonomous communities have for this matter it would always be sufficient to develop well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u12	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u13	Members, Members, President, we have been in the legislature for a year and the labour reform has not yet been repealed; I say the last one, I am no longer talking about the penultimate. This is a fact that weighs enormously on the labor structure of this country. The promises of many of the parties that are here, and that could be a majority if proposed, have not been fulfilled. We have lost ourselves through the forest of projects and have ended up in the swamp of reality. I have commented more than once that the 1978 structure is above all superior to the Executive and, therefore, there are slaps to be in the Government of the Spanish State. The division of powers that exists is above all the predominance of the Executive over the Legislature, and I no longer speak of the Judiciary. And that's where we're at. This proposal is based on a serious fact: precariousness and fraud, which affects all workers, but especially the most vulnerable; and curiously the most vulnerable are not the most prepared, they are the youngest, possibly those who did not participate in the 1978 consensus and are now trapped in a very distant reality to which they live. That is why the proposal has a good intention, but it remains relatively short, at best as far as possible, and it is possible to legislate on what can be easier for us at the moment. I will explain myself, because I do not want to make it very clear that we agree to make this law, but I do want to say that if there is something that we have relatively regulated and that works, it is the agreements on educational cooperation between universities and companies. Some will tell me: not at all universities alike. Okay, but this is what we have most regulated in the curriculum aspects. What we have nothing regulated, and it is a huge fraud, are the intended learning contracts, which are a forest of fraud. I'm not saying we don't have to start with what we're up to. I have spoken with different Catalan universities - they are the closest ones I have - and I have been told about the important changes that have been made since 2011 until now; specific faculty regulations have been regulated, specific regulations for master's and postgraduate degrees; regulations for practices in companies; a great deal has been emphasized in Royal Decree 1493/2011 of 24 October, to ensure that the company discharges in Social Security the curricular practices, even though it is a non-working relationship. But talking to the colleagues at some universities, they said to me: well, it's not wrong to do it with a law rank. Not bad, as long as two things are done: one, lighten the proposal a bit. I think there are things that need to be lightened. Let us go above all to rights, let us go above all to shield the rights of students. We believe this element of minimums and let autonomous communities and especially universities go to more, because the concept we have as a university I think should be broader. A university must be autonomous; it must not depend on the State or the autonomous communities. Autonomous universities need to demand results, but a university competes with Europe as a whole, it competes with all European universities, and it is good that in these elements of change we look to the 21st century and not to the 19th century. Better a law than a decree law, but better a law of bases than a comprehensive law that can't touch everything. I put it on a case-by-case basis Nursing, Medicine, Education, which have many practices within the curriculum different from another career. Let us be able to develop basic elements that each university and faculty can then apply to their concrete reality. We will support them in welcoming that in the work of amendments we will be able to improve this process. Welcome be such a law because - for those who visit us - it is not all Catalonia's fault. [[Addressing the public gallery]] It is also the fault of those who have budgets, who have responsibilities and look elsewhere, and not the young people who need today - today - a stability that has been promised and is not given. Released by the god. University and work. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u14	Thank you very much. Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u15	President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, I suppose you know the expression: making bread with cakes; that expression that we use in Spanish to refer to situations that we intend to improve and that, in the end, the whole thing turns out to be different and much worse. Well, look, this is what happens with your law; this is what happens with the law that you present to us today, that wanting to improve a situation, in which we can agree that you can improve some things, you are making a bread with some cakes! I'll explain myself. The law that you present to us has two fundamental problems, already told here: one in form and one in substance. I'll start with the shape. Gentlemen of Podemos, it does not make sense that to regulate a specific matter, such as the one that you bring us here today, you raise a law. If you had studied it a little, instead of just staying on the subject of demagogy, you would have realized that academic and extracurricular practices are not regulated by law; they are regulated by royal decree. So, I already know you're with your internal pads obsessed to see if you can kill the PSOE. But look, deep down, what you're doing is demagogying with something very important. The important thing is not the problem of form, but the problem of substance. Being well thought out - I am always well thought out - I want to interpret that you have brought this here for a genuine purpose, which is to protect the weakest subject in the case of contractual relations or in relations with companies. Of course, in the background, you are not, in fact, protecting students; what I want to believe is that you really care about education, you worry about the future and you worry about employability. However, I do not know whether by ignorance, haste or this eagerness to ideologize everything, supposedly pretending to solve a problem what you have done is much more complicated. This is what happens with your PL, because the proposal that you bring here, in addition to being partial and referring only to one of the many forms of non-work practices, raises so many rigidities that it almost completely prevents university practices from being agreed upon. For all the young university students in Spain: if what these gentlemen are proposing today is approved as they are today, many of you are not going to finish graduation for lack of companies to do your curricular practices, and many of you are not going to do practices in companies. You have an obsession with regulation, interventionism, and proper to the planned economies and an innate suspicion against everything that comes from the private sphere and confuse, in this proposal of law, the barbecues with the merinas. One thing, Mr de Podemos, is training contracts or practice contracts, which are contractual modalities, and another is non-work practices, which is what you are talking about. And the characteristic of non-work practices is their non-performance training nature. In other words, between the company or institution and the fellow or fellow, there should not be services that review the characteristic notes of a contract of employment; that is, that the end of academic or extracurricular practices is not the exercise of work in a company, but the exercise or acquisition of professional competence in the companies. Therefore, with this proposal of law that you present you are sowing the shadow of doubt on all companies, on all universities and on all students who are doing internships right now. We admit that non-work practices remain at the frontier of the right to work and we also admit that there have sometimes been fraudulent interests based on the possibility of using the labour services of persons who formally did not appear as such, and in Citizens we believe that these situations must be combated forcefully. You know why? Because these situations not only harm the person who is doing the practices, but also harm those graduates who are not able to get a job instead of these people; but one thing is to combat fraud, with which we agree, and another thing is to eliminate the absolute possibility of students doing practices in companies. Because the most serious of his law is not that he eliminates extracurricular practices, but he proposes - this is very serious - to turn the curricular practices into a contractual modality. You haven't had students in practice, I have. I have had students in practice and I know how difficult it is to find companies in my field... [[Laughter.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u16	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u17	... that they admit, tolerate and have people teaching them and devoting their time to acquire professional skills. Curriculum practices, gentlemen, are those that allow universities to take advantage of the skills necessary for the exercise of their profession and are designed for students to learn, not to work in companies. Therefore, to bureaucratise, systematize, regulate, penalise, impose a thousand and a thousand requirements all that will be achieved is to discourage companies and prevent students from acquiring skills that are necessary to them. Gentlemen of Podemos, wake up. We in Citizens are committed to fighting youth unemployment and the gap between qualification and work. It is true that we must work in this line, and we are essentially concerned that the university and the company are closely related and that degrees and master's degrees offer real employability, and for this, in order to adapt the educational skills to the real demands of the labour market, we need professional practices and we cannot carry them with a pen. Does this mean that in Citizens we consider the system of training university practices to be perfect? No, not much less. We believe that there are many, many things to improve and we believe that we need to improve the decrees of 2014 and 2011, as has been said here. Among other issues, we must assume that the essential nature of a non-professional practice is a form of learning and we must agree on a substantive definition that makes it possible to distinguish it from a work service, so that the dubious scholarships disappear and the fellows are not left unprotected, but the most important thing is that we want the university to carry out the effective supervision of this acquisition of competences and we want there to be an evaluation of curricular and extracurricular competences, so that the supplements to the title are also approved and supervised by instruments such as the Aneca. That is why we believe that what needs to be done is, in fact, to open a debate, we believe that we must sit multilaterally - with universities, with students, with companies and with trade unions - and make a proposal to amend the decrees of 2014 and 2011 in order to really serve to improve the system. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u18	For the Socialist Group, Mr Urquizu Sancho has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my group's intervention, first of all by showing our support for this initiative. It is very commendable that you bring something here that affects young people and has to do with job insecurity, but above all it has to do with the fraud that is being committed in many companies on account of university practices. It is therefore true that this is a serious problem that we must face and we are prepared to open this debate in the House. Having said that, I would like to continue my speech by saying that in order to be the party of the people they have spoken very little with the people, because if they had spoken with the universities they would have discovered that this proposal that you bring here does not like them very much. If you had spoken to many of the students, you would have discovered that what you are claiming is a scholarship statute that is much broader than curriculum practices. [[Applauds]] If you had spoken to the opposition, instead of meeting with us at 10 a.m. and going to the Registry at 12 a.m. to present this proposal, surely we could have done something much better. That said, we believe that to solve problems we cannot create new problems. Therefore, in order to address something as serious as curricular practices, we have to face it rigorously; we have to know where the fraud is, where the problem is and how we are able to solve it. In your initiative we have identified some small content problems - as I say to you, we are going to support it and therefore we are prepared to work on amendments that will improve your proposal - which we think are serious. There is a lack of recognition of everything that universities have been doing for the work of practice. They are controlling it, they have taken it very seriously for a long time and are trying to give seriousness and follow-up to something that is very serious. Basically, curricular practices have to do with two elements: academic and work, and you seem to be very concerned about work, but you have little concern about academics, and academics and teachers are very serious about curricular practices. We have to be serious about how these practices serve to teach and to teach, where we have to recognize rights, of course, but where the elements of teaching and academics cannot disappear, and you hardly pay attention to this. Secondly, you set limits on the hours of practice of five hundred hours. You know what that means? That Social Education, Social Work, practically all health education and the Magisterium stay out of this initiative, because these students do more than five hundred hours. But not only that, there are European guidelines that state that some teachings have to have more than five hundred hours. With his initiative we would surely have to review all the university curricula and we would have to rethink everything that has to do with university practices within the curriculum. The third element, which is a mistake, is that you forget everything that has nothing to do with curriculum practices. They don't say anything about extracurriculars, and that's where fraud is detected. Those practices are really the problem; that's what we have to regulate and address, and they don't say anything about it. Not only that, they prohibit them, but it is also a mistake, because it is in them where there is greater employability - therefore, we have to regulate them in the right direction - and because it is in them where many students who do not have curricular practices have an opportunity to practice in companies, because not all studies have this kind of practices that you propose. They are therefore setting aside many students in their ability to practice and are making the mistake of not contemplating them. Finally, universities, from now on, if we paid attention to their initiative, would be very burdened with bureaucracy, and I do not think anyone in this House wants to overload and saturate the practice offices. That is why, because we have taken this very seriously, we are prepared to talk about this matter and amend it as much as possible, because we believe that this can be much better. If we want to solve young people's problems, we have to do it seriously, and for that we must do it rigorously and really pay attention to all this. That, as I said at first, is done with dialogue. This is not done unilaterally, this is done talking to the educational community, it is done talking to the directors, talking to the students, with the opposition groups. If we really want to solve the problem, we must do so from dialogue and consensus and not as you have done in this House, bringing it unilaterally. Finally, and so that there is no mistake, I tell you that we continue to maintain our support for the need to regulate all this, but we cannot allow it to be done wrong. When one in life does things unilaterally, what usually happens to him is that he stays quite alone. So if you don't want to be alone next time, talk much more to others, listen less to yourselves and listen much more to others. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u20	Mrs Valmaña Ochaita has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are dealing with today has a purpose that we share, or at least that I believed until I heard Mr Rodriguez, because I do not know whether we are talking about the same bill or different proposals. I explain why I believe it has a purpose that we share, and it is that the wording of Article 3 of this proposed law, as well as the wording of Article 3 of Royal Decree 592/2014 of 11 July, have an identical wording. Therefore, if the purposes contained in this article of the royal decree and the purposes contained in the proposed law are the same, then we must start from the same objectives, so it is not wrong to start with a meeting point. The fact is, however, that the proposed law raises other issues where the People's Group does not agree so much. It does not agree with the need to make regulation as a law of a situation that is already regulated, and is well regulated, and it is because it is a guaranteeing regulation of external practices, beyond that there may be defects in the concrete execution of some cases in these practices. In addition, this royal decree would dare me to say that it continues with a policy of state in this matter because it drinks from the sources of the Royal Decree of 2011 made by the last socialist government on university practices, that is, correcting the defects that determined the nullity of it. This royal decree created a very broad agreement between the Council of Universities, the General Conference of University Policy and the Council of State University Students. What happens is that on this occasion the Parliamentary Group We also do not want to make state policy, they miss another time. What do I get from this? From your erratic statement of reasons, which already allows us to appreciate the injustice and error underlying your proposal, and it underlies because you disqualify a whole system by calling it a widespread fraud. This can only be said from ignorance, confusion, error or falsehood. Lack of knowledge of the same instrument, because they propose a law to carry out a regulation and what they do is not know what the laws are for, what the decrees are for, what the ministerial orders are for, and even the agreements are for, because they regulate every aspect of the practices to detail. Confusion until terminological, because indistinctly use the practical terms academics or fellows as if they were similar or identical realities, when they are not, are different realities. One of two, either they're confused or they want to confuse public opinion, which I don't know what's worse. Errors even in the own explanatory statement, so detailed that it seems a memory of a practice work, by the way. In it they give data that I think they'll be wrong, I don't want to think they're manipulated. You cite a study by the European Commission to say that 61% of the fellows in Spain have not received financial compensation. The data for this study is 58 %, not 61 %. By the way, below the EU average of 59%, and below countries such as France, 61%; Germany, 62%; Italy, 69%; or the United Kingdom, 69%. In any case, in that 58% I imagine that will be included the practices of Radio Carmena that requested in May of this year to eight free fellows. [[Applauds]] The truth is that we are better than the average in the European Union because we have good regulation, but that is not enough, although we agree that we need to improve. The most serious are the falsehoods contained in this proposal for a law, because they are based on sowing insidia and suspicion about the work being done by universities, employers, the same unions, institutions, administrations, the Labour Inspectorate. Everyone is under suspicion for their demagogy. Of course, we do not share your opinion, because we know of the efforts and the good doing of universities to obtain the best practices for the training of students - all universities, also the Complute University, but not only her -; moreover, because we know that the Labour Inspectorate does its work in a magnificent way, and they detect cases of fraud when they occur; and also because we believe in the best intention of the officials of the Spanish administrations and employers, who are committed to the training of men and women who are going to constitute the most important asset in Spain, because what is being talked about here is very little about training. Can monitoring mechanisms be improved? Of course!, for that you can count on the People's Party; we have already done so by bringing to this House a non-law proposal that, by the way, you did not support. But, in addition to eliminating fraud, we want to avoid endangering a system of practices, which creates a confusion of the system, eliminating extracurricular practices from a pen and, moreover, without giving any alternative, condemning thousands of young people to nothing. They confuse external training practices, carried out by university students during their university education - proposed and supervised primarily by universities - with other forms of employment integration. You put young people at risk of titling, but also at risk that those extracurricular practices that are so necessary for the European supplement to the title will enable our young people to compete in the best conditions with young people across Europe. Are you going to take it away from our sons and daughters without giving any explanation? Or are they going to explain to young people why they are going to be in poorer conditions than university students from other countries when they are deprived of this possibility? Have you explained to university students that if this bill comes forward, it is very possible that you will not be able to do so because there is no offer of external practices? Have you told the students who are studying vocational training that they are not going to be able to perform non-work practices because in passing, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, you propose to repeal the decree that regulates them, without considering any alternative? Are you going to explain to the universities why you think you have become a kind of silent accomplice to the fraud that you presume and why you think that universities do this against the interest of students, who are part of the university? Are they going to explain to the Autonomous Communities why they want to use a law to regulate in detail competences that invade not only university autonomy but also the educational and labour competences of the Autonomous Communities themselves? [[Applauds]] I am going to transfer a request to you - and I will finish this - and I am not going to do it on my behalf or in that of my parliamentary group; it is a request from the university community, of all things, that asks us to trust them and let them do their job of training the students. It is the plea of my son Luis and, like him, that of thousands of young people who are currently doing external practices in companies. I ask you to back off this initiative and not to jeopardize a formative system that is working. This system cannot be improved by dynamitating it. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote against taking account of its proposal for a law. [[Applauds]] - the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the Reform of Law 3/2007 of 15 March 2007 on the Regulator of the REGISTRATIVE CORRECTION OF THE MENTION RELATING TO THE SEX OF PERSONS, to permit the REGISTRATIVE CORRECTION OF THE MENTION RELATING TO THE SEX AND NAME OF TRANSEXUAL AND/OR TRANSITIONAL MINORS, TO AMEND THE REQUIREMENTS ESTABLISHED IN ARTICLE 4 WITH REGARD TO THE REGISTRATION OF THE SEX CHANGE, AND TO POSSIBLE MEASURES TO IMPROVE THE INTEGRATION OF FOREIGN PERSONS RESIDING IN SPAIN. [[File number 122/000072]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u22	We continue with the item on the agenda for the consideration of the Socialist Group's proposed law, for the reform of Law 3/2007 of 15 March, which regulates the registration of the reference to sex of persons, to allow the registration of the reference to sex and the name of transsexual and/or transgender minors, to modify the requirements set out in Article 4 with regard to the registration of sex change, and to enable measures to improve the integration of foreign persons residing in Spain. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Galovart Carrera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u23	Very good afternoon. Today we begin to write a new chapter in the history of the rights of transgender people in this country. On this occasion, I would like to remind the thousands of people who suffered humiliation by not having recognized their own identity, as well as stories of pain and uprooting that have left indelible traces and that have taken lives in the midst of social ostracism. Thirty years had passed since the advent of democracy, and there was a socialist government for those people to see their rights recognized for the first time in a law, Law 3/2007. Here is our appreciation to the trans and LGTBI collectives and to all the associations of parents of minors who struggle to ensure that their transsexual sons and daughters have the same rights and hopes as the other boys and girls. Rodríguez Zapatero said that a decent society is the one that does not humiliate its members, and we add that a society that does not lay the foundations for justice so that people can project their happiness is a society that is low in humanity. We are born in a dichotomous society of men and women, who only wait for a man or a woman, and trans people arrive in a world in which no one awaits them and, generally speaking, no one loves them either. If you don't meet that binary standard, if you don't have the right to be yourself, it's very difficult for you to be happy. Society will deny you what you feel, the world will make you invisible and discriminate, you will have difficulty accessing work, health services, to integrate socially. It is very likely that you will suffer violence in the form of hate crimes and may suffer school harassment and social stigma, but let us recapitulate in this regard. Law 3/2007, adopted during the Zapatero Government, made it possible for transgender persons for the first time to change their names and registered sex without the need to undergo ignominious treatments for genital surgery. This is a law that was a milestone and was a pioneer in the world, a regulation that has ultimately avoided many sufferings and humiliations, which is why socialists are very proud of it. Proud, yes, but not ensimized, because the passage of time, sentences and experience in the application of the law have determined the need for its reform, so that the State ensures that the identity recognized by society is the one perceived and felt by the person. To this end, the proposal we present covers three aspects: First, it allows for the registration of transgender minors and/or trans through - of course - their parents or legal representatives. Second, it modifies the requirements for agreeing to the registrar correction. Third, it enables foreign residents in Spain to change sex and name on the residence card and work permit. The reform is also used to expressly recognize intersex persons as beneficiaries of the law. Firstly, and because the future of girls and girls will always be today, and tomorrow it will be late, it is urgent to recognize the right to sexual identity of transgender minors, as the Council of Europe warns, guaranteeing the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of age. With the proposed reform, these children will no longer be exposed to continuous violations of their dignity, moral integrity and privacy in the many moments when they have to identify themselves publicly and show that their sexual identity does not correspond to the sex assigned to them at birth. The reform will also put an end to the legal uncertainty that generates contradictory resolutions issued by civil registries. The rights of these minors have been recognized, as you know, in resolutions, recommendations and reports of various international and supranational institutions, including resolution 2048 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The plenary of the Supreme Court has also raised a question of unconstitutionality, since Law 3/2007 only recognizes the legitimacy of older persons and not minors. In addition, there are many autonomous legislations that have rightly regulated the issue before us. In another way, the reform will overcome legislation that conceptualizes sexual identity and/or gender expression as a mental disorder. It is a reform that eradicates - eradicates, repeats - the pathologization of transgender entities by eliminating the reporting requirements of gender dysphoria or medical treatments. Madam President, I would also like, from here, to have a sense of remembrance for all those people who are no longer with us, who have fallen victim to hatred and transphobia such as Sonia Rescalvo, murdered in Barcelona by a group of neo-Nazis or Roberto González, tortured and murdered in Madrid after seventy-two hours of agony or the boy Alan himself, who took his life in Rubí after three years of school harassment. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have come up to this rostrum with the assurance that the majority of the House will vote in favour of this initiative being taken into consideration, not in vain in its day a citizen's GNP was spent urging the government to adopt an initiative such as the one we are dealing with, but, without prejudice to this majority vote, we do not spare the request for the unanimous vote of the House for the simple reason that it is a simple consideration for a necessary and urgent debate because the proposal does justice to one of the most discriminated groups in our country. [[Applauds]] That is why this initiative is supported by the trans and LGTBI collectives and by the parents' associations of the transsexual minors, to whom I dedicate all my affection and enthusiasm. In conclusion, we are convinced that this initiative, insofar as it truly recognizes the right to self-perceived sexual identity and/or gender expression, will be a useful and necessary tool for improving life and making transgender people happier. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u24	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u25	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the reality passes before you and you can no longer stop diversity. They tried to stop the egalitarian marriage at the time, they have profiled themselves with the LGTBI law and the question is: what are they going to do now with the recognition of the sense of identity of minors? Are you going to be ashamed, as you are now doing with the equal marriage vote? Last week, the broadcast of the OT 24 hour program was mysteriously shut down when the popular party's vote was criticized precisely on the law of equal marriage. Yesterday, this same program again gave a bath of reality to the central government with the kiss of Marina and her partner. I guess they've seen the picture. [[Show a sign]] Reality passes before them, they can no longer stop diversity. I don't know what you see here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party; I suppose as your comrades in HazteOir, in gags you see strange empires or you see deviations. I see love, I see tolerance, I see respect, I see people. People who want to live in freedom, brave people, people who don't hide, people who have been silent for a long time. Fortunately, this country has progressive autonomous governments who do understand that diversity needs to be taken up, Governments like the Valencian, which already have a law that recognizes sex as meaning itself, the Trans Valencian law, which will enable autonomous documentation to be consistent with that sex sense. Today we can do the same in this House, we can do it with minors. Let us live up to the autonomic governments and legislate to accommodate diversity, and that begins with everyone having the documentation - everyone, I repeat - according to their identity, the true one, the sensed identity. Fortunately, they no longer have a majority in this Chamber. Let reality not pass through us too. Let us give way to diversity today, let us give way to the sexual revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u26	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u27	Thank you, President. I would like once again to start my speech by calling for the immediate return of the political prisoners we still have in Spanish prisons unjustly and causing them enormous damage. So... [[Pronounce words in Catalan.-Applause]] I have to tell the families that we are going to give our support to the processing of this proposal of law, it is of justice, it is necessary, it is a reality that exists today and we must channel it through the amendment of Law 3/2007. In Catalonia we were pioneers in this issue, we urged in the Parliament of Catalonia an amendment of this state law in order to obtain access by minors to the Civil Registry in order to be able to change the name, in order to make the correction of the sex. It is necessary to try to end the stigmatization, the discrimination suffered by these minors, it is not fair that today we are still awaiting such important changes as this, that they leave too much arbitrariness of the judges, in order to achieve it, after having to prove operations and treatments in order to justify an unnecessary justification. Therefore, we will give our support to this process, we will inform ourselves of the steps that have been taken in the Parliament of Catalonia and we would also like to open a debate on the subject of the allocation of sex to birth. I think it is a debate that we could face, it is a debate that has been faced in other European parliaments, and why not also facilitate these issues in the context of a debate in the Commission as appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u28	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u29	Thank you, Madam President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has brought us a proposal for a law with the aim of introducing three amendments to Law 3/2007 of 15 March, which is aimed at regulating the requirements necessary to access the change of registration relating to sex and the name of a person in the Civil Registry when such registration does not correspond to their true gender identity. As the rapporteur herself has announced, there are three main reforms proposed by this proposal for a law: on the one hand, to allow the registration of the reference to sex and the name of transgender minors, since Law 3/2007 only recognizes this possibility for the elderly, and also provides for the direct rectification by those over sixteen, i.e. the fork is changed between sixteen and eighteen years of age, giving a majority on this issue to those over sixteen years of age, and, through the parents, to minors of that age. Secondly, to remove the obligation to provide any kind of medical document or to prove that it has undergone an operation, which so far has to be done and which is still to be done in order to be able to make that change in the registry. Thirdly, to enable foreign persons residing in the Spanish State to call for the rectification of the mention of sex and the change of name in their residence card and which can be done with this modification. Law 14/2012 of 22 December 2012 of the Basque Parliament, a law which recognized the rights of transsexual persons and which was one of the pioneering laws in this area, says in its preamble that in reality transsexual persons do not demand that they be treated because they suffer from a pathology or a disorder, but because of the social obstacles they encounter in the free development of their most fundamental rights and because of the pain and anguish that such difficulties fill their lives. I think it is important to differentiate this approach from the pathological to the psychological, hence it must necessarily be based on the premise that the configuration of a person's sex goes beyond the mere visual appreciation of his external genitals, present at the time of birth. We will have to adopt as a guide, therefore, a not purely biological concept of sex, as already established by the European Court of Human Rights after a unanimous decision, but above all the psychosocial one, recognizing that the psychological characteristics that shape its way of being prevail in the person. I therefore believe that this proposal for a law submitted by the Socialist Group fully reflects the principles underlying the Basque Parliament's 2012 law on non-discrimination on grounds of gender identity and recognition of the rights of transgender persons on the administrative documentation of transgender persons, documentation to be made available to them until such time as the reference has been rectified in the register. Thus, in our autonomous legislation, in the one in Euskadi which I have already mentioned, the situation of minors and also of immigrant persons residing in the Euskadi Autonomous Community is envisaged. While this bill may be successful, it may be appropriate to adapt the definition of transgender persons contained in article 3 of the Act of 14/2012, eliminating any reference to the accreditation of such status through medical or psychological reporting. Because we also know that today international diagnostic classifications, or some international diagnostic classifications of diseases, still include gender dysphoria as a mental disorder or illness. There is an increasing number of prestigious experts and researchers who seriously consider the withdrawal of this type of pathological labelling, in line with what the Basque Parliament said that in an agreement that it took on 30 September 2010, even before the adoption of the law itself, it called for action before the World Health Organization for the withdrawal of the classification of transsexuality as a mental illness. Regardless of what international treaties say, it is important that new concepts also apply to the law because sometimes society must more than once give an example, to have that protection, to which it sometimes appears socially reprehensible. It is the law that has to take that step when it is sometimes noted that society still discriminates and that legal protection in some way or another will protect these people so that then, by obligation in principle and by conviction then, the whole society can or must respect. Having said that, and in conclusion, I would like to say that we are going to support this initiative. There may be a number of issues, nuances in which we may not be able to agree to 100%, but at the amendment stage I think we can resolve it without any problem, if this proposal for a law passes this procedure from now on. I also want to say that it is the competence of the State to do so, so we do not see that there is any competitive invasion, it assumes the inspiring principles of that pioneering law, and I believe that the Basque Parliament took a very important step in adopting it. We must set an example and take that step so that these people, on the condition that they themselves want to assume, are respected and protected by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u31	Too late to all and so to all. First of all, a fraternal greeting to the friends and friends of the State Federation and to other associations that accompany us today in this Chamber. Welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the amendment of Law 3/2007, on the proposal of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. In fact, today we are discussing the amendment of a law that was intentionally made known by the same PSOE as a law of gender identity, but, ladies and gentlemen, Law 3/2007 of 15 March is not a law of gender identity. Nor is it a law to guarantee the rights of trans people, nor is it a comprehensive law on gender identity or expression, nor is it a law against transphobia. In fact, this law that is presented today does not cease to be a self-amendment that PSOE itself makes to Law 3/2007. It's not, like I say, any of this and I'm trying to explain myself. At the time, in 2007, LGTBI associations and trans people were deceived. The truth is that today's law hardly meets what it promises: to regulate the registrar rectification of the reference to the sex of persons. Even in this it does not recognize the right of minors to identity or gender expression. Law 3/2007 was in no way up to expectations and today we can say that it was a scam - I mean so loud and clear - to trans people. From Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya I must say that we are clear: we must overcome it once and for all - it is not the first time we say it and surely it will not be the last, although I hope it will be the last times we say it in this rostrum - a heteronormative and binary society in order to be free to be who we are, regardless of the sex assigned to us at birth. To achieve this society belongs to us all, but also to all and not only to LGBTI people. My group will support the consideration of this bill and will do so despite the fact that again, as in 2007, the PSOE remains on our side halfway. We must promote a true law on gender identity, a law aimed at facilitating and expediting procedures for the change of name and sex in official documents and certificates, abolishing compulsory medical treatment and mental health diagnosis as a requirement for the recognition of gender identity and fully recognizing the right of minors to their own sexual identity. We must also eradicate the binary vision of sex and protect the right to sexual identity of intersex people, prohibiting surgeries at birth, but not only that. We have to go a lot further. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya wants to build a new republic, where recognition and respect for sexual and gender diversity are part of its founding values. For us this is of vital importance, a new country with a Constitution that explicitly recognizes the right of all people to be who they are, regardless of their identity or gender expression, a new country that actively fights to eradicate any form of transphobia in our society. Catalonia is a pioneer country, it has already been said; it is a pioneer country in many things and also in the LGTBI struggle. We were pioneers with the adoption in the Parliament of Catalonia of Law 11/2014, of 10 October, to guarantee the rights of people LGBTBI and to eradicate LGBTBIphobia; a law that we cannot fully develop in the current Spanish legal framework. Therefore, we aim to have the tools of a State to provide us with legislation that is powerful in anti-discrimination matters to guarantee the rights of LGBTI people. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my speech with a reflection that I think is of vital importance. While we and we here today are debating, in the consideration of this bill, whether we allow minors a right to sexual identity that should already be guaranteed, I wonder: How is it possible that there are transpobic entities today that directly deny this right, such as HazteOir, and that for the most part they have the consideration of entities of public interest? How is this possibly happening today? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is happening today, and I will tell you that it is a real shame to which this proposal for a law does not respond either. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u32	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u33	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to greet all the associations, groups and individuals who have come to be with us in today's debate. Thank you so much for your assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were able to avoid continuing violations of human rights and article 14 of the Constitution and existing legal uncertainty on grounds of gender expression, orientation and sexual identity, we would not be talking about this today. Citizens are clear that real equality is one of the basic pillars of an advanced society. For that reason, our involvement in this issue is fundamental and has been paramount since our arrival in the institutions. Our proximity to the collectives has been absolute and the contact has been close. Our electoral programme already clearly indicated the cause of the problems that society had. Inequality takes many forms: by identity, gender, sex, age, physical, education and lately, unfortunately, by where one comes from or where one resides. That is why we committed ourselves to resolving it immediately, and at the first meeting of the Equality Commission we presented a PNL which was approved by a majority - thank you, Mrs Galovart, for your recognition - and in which the People's Parliamentary Group abstained, as always. In it, we called for the immediate and urgent inclusion of minors and foreigners as legitimate holders of the fundamental rights of every individual; as long as we do not do so, we are legitimizing discrimination. Who am I to recognize you if your own state doesn't recognize you? What Citizens understood to be urgent has not been so urgent. It has been more than a year for the Socialist Parliamentary Group to have taken our witness and presented this bill that comes to amend a law that they themselves made. It seems to me that the law has done important things, but you knew that law had been born lame and that it was not what it should have been from the very beginning. The question is that the current tools that we have are failing and we are not able to effectively and effectively implement the laws that tell us about a part of the population that does not feel respected or full of rights. We have to change this, it's a challenge and I think it's time from now on. Let us not allow minors, our children, the future, to suffer the stigma of a society that separates us and that differentiates us by letters - ele; ge; uve; e -. Let us talk about equality, real equality, and, although some of your ladies and gentlemen do not like this, let us ensure compliance with the laws and articles of the Constitution that oblige us not to discriminate and treat everyone equally. From the stand, at the moment, I will remind you that people, especially minors, must be at the centre of public life and not at the dawn of party decisions. He warned Rosa María Bonàs, of Esquerra Republicana - a party that then was dedicated to trying to solve people's problems - about the inconsistency of not applying this law to minors. According to his own words, the most difficult age for all and for all is puberty, but for transgender people it is doubly difficult. As we have been told, it is the age at which more school dropouts occur and when marginalization begins. In these cases, if the name change or the sex change could have been made earlier it would have favored the integration of these people before puberty. More and more talk of transsexuality, it is clear, but still in the collective imagination is present the old paradigm that comes from the experience of adults. Minors and their families are teaching us the way, and here I want to address Africa Pastor, of the Daniela Foundation, Natalia Aventín, president of Chrysallis, or Alexa, to whom the State has denied her existence, preventing her from exercising her rights as a citizen and who today is a citizen of full rights: her sex and her name have been recognized by the State. The first thing we have to do is have social recognition, in the family, in the school, in the environment. The second, which should be the result of the first, is legal recognition, which is what we are talking about today, what we are debating today. The next thing, of course, is to guarantee all the rights of trans people in all fields, in education, work and health. Diversity, ladies and gentlemen, speaks of differences that must not separate us, because being equal in opportunities and rights is accepting us as different in other things; this way of seeing diversity will become a value for our society and not a barrier to not achieving real equality. The name, the identity, what defines the human being is essential, and that is why we demand their respect. As you have just told me this afternoon, we must ensure that your legal identity is consistent with your real identity so that your rights are not violated in every day-to-day act of your life. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you, knowing and recognizing the right to a name in autonomous laws, have resisted the ex officio amendment of Law 3/2007. You have been able to do so, but you have consciously ignored the suffering of people and, in this case, minors. What surprises me most is when the minister says that the law prevents the registration of the mention of sex to minors. For in this data it is indicated that from 2012 until 2016 more than sixty-one people have achieved their registrar rectification. [[shows a graph]] Yes, it can be done, and we have to keep trying to make this a daily rule. You can not only do it, but you have to do it, and it is your responsibility, because it is impossible to talk about equality if the greatest source of inequality comes from the Administration itself, for which you are responsible. Real equality is not said, it is done. Real equality is not a word, it is a right of all, and all of us, the 350, have to guarantee it. Finally - and I finish with this, Your Honor - I remind you that identity is not a problem. We all have an identity, and denial of identity is the cruelest action that can be done to a human being. For this reason, we will give our support to the processing of this legislative amendment. The end of legal discrimination, ladies and gentlemen, must be the first step in the discussion of laws that eliminate all forms of discrimination. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u34	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs García Puig has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u35	Too late, too late for associations. From the confederal group we celebrate - as it cannot be otherwise - that the voice of trans people reaches Congress and their historical demands regarding the change of name and sex in the register are heard. However, and despite the fact that I am already telling you that we are going to vote in favour of the consideration, we cannot fail to express our discomfort, shared by a large part of trans activism, in the face of various facts. First of all, the Socialist Group is bringing here today a proposal for a law whose contents are already, as is the case, in the proposal for a law LGTBI which was registered by the confederal group and which was admitted to procedure last September. However, it is precisely the Socialist Group, together with Citizens and the People's Group, that has already extended the deadline for amendments to this law six times, thus making it impossible for such an urgent law to be adopted as soon as possible. [[Applauds]] From here, I ask not only the Socialist Group, but also the Citizens and the People's Group not to prevent the processing of the LGTBI law; it would be an enormous historical irresponsibility. I'm going to give you one thing: the ILGA denounces that Spain has fallen to the ninth place in the ranking of the annual report on the situation of the rights of LGBTI people in Europe; it's the lowest position since 2010, when we were in second place. If you make an effort to see beyond the numbers and the damage this does to the Spanish brand, you will understand that this fall has direct victims; they are people who see their rights undermined in all areas of their daily lives. How long are they going to allow it? I tell you every time I come up to this rostrum: Ladies and gentlemen, take a walk around the world, walk the street and you will understand that preventing the adoption of the LGTBI law is a historic irresponsibility that our citizens are already paying too much. On the other hand, this proposal for a law amends a law of the Socialist Group itself, which was already unfair since its birth, and we cannot but say it today. Not only did it discriminate against minors and foreigners, but it also pathologicalized trans people, forcing them to have a diagnosis and medical treatment to opt for name and sex change. This modification comes late; ten years may seem little in the darkness of these rooms, but there are many for people who suffer it day by day. It would not be fair not to remember today all those trans activists who already protested against this law. Has the Socialist Group envisaged how to repair the damage that this law has done to trans people? From the confederal group we invite you to think about it together, always counting on those who have suffered it in the first person. I also want to invite you to work together on a comprehensive trans law, which the confederal group is already working with various groups, some of them here today. This law proposed today by the Socialist Group - which, I repeat, is late - is also totally insufficient to combat the inequality and discrimination suffered by trans people, the weakest, most stigmatised group and most at risk of social exclusion from the LGBT collective. According to Transgender Europe data, 325 trans people have been killed in one year. I would especially like to remind the last victim of our country, Lorena Reyes, who died when she fell off a third floor while trying to save her life, after being threatened and assaulted in the home where she was engaged in prostitution. How would this law proposed by the Socialist Group help Lorraine, a triplely discriminated woman, who, in her trans status, added her status as an immigrant and the invisibility and violation of the rights to which women who engage in prostitution are subjected? The unemployment rate among trans persons is 85 %; I repeat, 85 %. We urgently need a law that guarantees labour rights and access to the labour market for trans people, and that also addresses education. What is the point of a name change in the register, when 90% of minors and trans minors are victims of harassment and when we are unable to guarantee their safety in their schools? Although this law proposed by the Socialist Group certainly paves the way for the depathologisation of transsexuality is totally inadequate, as it does not address the transformation of the public health system. We need models that, like those already approved in Andalusia or Catalonia, are based on human rights and not on psychiatrization, models based on self-determination and the free expression of gender. And what about trans-refugees, asylum-seekers, those who are victims of racist raids and very often of internment? What does this law give them? And finally, we need a law that includes intersex people, the big forgotten ones; we need health protocols that ensure the right to informed consent and prohibit unnecessary surgeries that seek to aesthetically normalize the sex of babies. I believe that the Socialist Group will not be able to fail to agree with us on the need and urgency for a comprehensive trans- and intersex state law that captures all these realities and, just as we will today support this proposed law that they present, in the coming days the Socialist Group will cease to put a stop to the LGTBI law and will start working with us in a comprehensive trans-law. And I extend this invitation to all groups in the House. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens and the People's Group, let us legislate together; there are people who need it. Trans activist Susan Stryker says that every time a trans breather makes a small revolution. Let us join efforts and let not one more day to breathe be a heroic act for some. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u36	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs. Dueñas Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to set out our position in relation to the consideration of the proposal for a law submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the reform of Law 3/2007, which regulates the registrar correction of the reference to sex of persons; first, to allow for the registrar correction of the reference to sex and the name of transsexual and/or transgender minors, to modify the requirements established with regard to the registration of sex change and to enable the integration of foreign persons residing in Spain. It is a proposal which, in general terms, we cannot support as it is, although we understand the debate logically and necessary. It is a proposal, ladies and gentlemen, that we must analyse with the premise of a fundamental and essential principle, that is, legal certainty. They bring to this House a text in which the rigour of law must prevail, especially as regards the protection of the best interests of the child and of the principles of registration, of necessary application, and this, ladies and gentlemen, in order to regulate effectively, safely and with the greatest legal protection to those affected. Let us not forget that we are talking about minors. You have to be very careful when it comes to childhood. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group is absolutely sensitive and aware of this difficult problem that is brought to the House today, especially when it concerns minors. From a strictly legal analysis, I would first like to point out that we believe that Article 1, paragraph 1, which by definition includes as a subject of right any person of Spanish nationality with legal capacity to do so, contradicts the provisions of Article 1, paragraph 2, in which the persons over the age of sixteen are entitled to make the application autonomously, when these - it is well known, ladies and gentlemen - cannot enjoy the capacity to act fully by being subject to the parental authority of their parents, as provided for in the Civil Code. In this context, the possible disagreements referred to in paragraph 4 should also concern the parents and should be addressed by them, as the only legitimate subjects, through the judicial authority, and not as set out in the text of this proposal for a law. And I do not say this, ladies and gentlemen, but it is expressly reflected in article 156 of the Civil Code; defence of the best interests of the child, referred to in article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, in the Organic Law on the Legal Protection of the Child, in the Organic Law on the Amendment of the System for the Protection of Children and Adolescents; special caution - caution that, with all due respect, we do not observe with sufficient guarantees in the text presented - this question, that of the best interests of the child, which is also reflected - has been described by some of those who have preceded me in the use of the word - in the order issued by the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court in March 2016, an order that raises a question of unconstitutionality, which we are awaiting resolution by the Constitutional Court, in relation to the legitimation to request the change in the registered mention of sex contained in article 1 of that law. However, ladies and gentlemen, by collecting the arguments and grounds used by the Supreme Court in its decision, in the light of that essential and necessary best interests of the child, in application of the constitutional rights to privacy and the free development of personality and in order to avoid any discrimination in this field on grounds of age, we do consider it appropriate to review the limitation that Law 3/2007 imposes on the access of those to the rectification of the registered mention of sex and to open up the possibility, as long as it is done with due guarantees, to protect always and at all times the child's perceived best interests. Another point raised in this proposal for a law, also on the subject of minors, is that we consider it necessary, for the sake of guaranteeing and protecting these minors, to establish an age limit which the doctrine of the Ministry of Justice for the change of names of transgender minors establishes at the age of 14. We are pleased that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is bringing this change of view into this bill, but I would like to remind you that you did not want to include - as the spokesman for Esquerra mentioned earlier - neither the subject of trans minors nor the subject of foreigners in the bill that was debated in 2007, because of the criteria that logically all of you already know. On the subject of the abolition of the requirements for agreement on rectification, this parliamentary group understands that, in general terms, further progress must be made to eliminate the need to provide medical or psychological reports and to undergo surgery or hormonal treatment, although expressly in the case of minors the protection of the best interests of the same may require, as the Minister of Justice said only a few months ago, that there should be medical reports, not of pathologies, but of reality and description of the situation. We are talking about a law of an essentially registrar nature, not a gender identity law itself, a law that, while it was a major social advance, focused and focused its objective on the final legal attainment of a process, the registrar rectification, which is what regulates. As far as resident aliens are concerned, as it is raised, we cannot accept it on a purely technical issue either, as was also reflected in the debate on this bill back in 2007, as it was stated, because it goes beyond the object of this proposed reform by not affecting those who are not registered in the Civil Registry. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. The aim of this parliamentary group, which we have set out so far, is essentially to defend, to enhance the best interests of minors. We believe that this proposal is in clear legal uncertainty when it comes to establishing legitimate subjects, both in the case of minors and in the case of foreign citizens. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, and I do so by expressing on behalf of my group our respect and appreciation to all the associations, collectives and associations of parents who work in this struggle every day. I would like to convey to you our willingness to continue to move forward from debate and listening for equality and other rights, in the search for joint solutions that, for the benefit of all and especially the best interests of minors, must necessarily come from the hand of law, in the interests of greater legal certainty and, ultimately, greater protection for all purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u38	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u39	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress calling on the Government to support the Barcelona National Supercomputer Center and the Spanish Supercomputer Network. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Roca Mas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u40	Good afternoon, thank you. I present the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in support of the Barcelona National Supercomputer Center. [[The Lord]] It tells the parable that a man of the field, with the wisdom that gives him to live with nature, sent his children to the forest by branches, bound them with a string and asked them to try to break the bundle. Since he could not even the strongest of them, he cut the rope and gave a branch to each child, which they broke easily, because they were not as strong as together. Together, 47 million Spaniards, we have put in Barcelona the National Supercomputer Center, a center we can be proud of and we can be proud of because it is the fourth at European level in gross power. We can be proud because in quality it is even better, because it provides services in a transversal and proportional way to researchers from different fields - basic science, biomedicine, astronomy, climate study, among others -, researchers not only from all of Spain, but also from all of Europe. We can be proud because, following the majority contribution of the Government of Spain and the generous collaboration of the Government of the Generalitat, the Barcelona National Supercomputer Center is able to return four and up to five euros for each public euro. But our scientific consortia have problems being competitive in Europe. With this GNP we want to help our centers so that they can better and more efficiently hire their research staff. This is not the first time Spanish science has problems. Six years ago the Spaniards told the PP to step up to save Spanish science. Thus, we rescued the Higher Centre for Scientific Research, resumed payments to the European Nuclear Research Council and recovered contributions to innovative companies through the Centre for Industrial Technological Development. Now, the Spaniards have told us that the opposition has no absolute minority, now the opposition has power. The opposition in Spain can win all the votes in this House, the opposition in Spain can blame the entire PP, the opposition in Spain can even create a commission of investigation into corruption, but only that of the PP because, of course, you are very outraged but you are not foolish either. But, as they say in Spiderman, a great power carries a great responsibility. Now, we're all responsible for what happens to Spanish science. We must be able to find among all, together, a space where we find a stable, sustainable and lasting solution in time for our science. We must find a space in the National Science Plan. I also want to talk about Catalonia. The Barcelona National Center for Supercomputers, as well as the National Center for Genomic Analysis, which is also in Catalonia, and the Alba Syncrotron, which is also in Catalonia, are the convincing demonstration that it is not true that there is any kind of conspirative operation in Spain's plan against Catalonia, but quite the contrary. In Catalonia we must overcome this harmful and destructive stage; years of reproach for a non-existent aggravation, years of rupture and supremacism, years of propaganda and pedagogy of hatred. We must make Catalonia, taking advantage of what we are doing in science, an environment that brings together Spaniards from all over to lead not only Spain, but also Europe. We must make Catalonia a social, economic, media, administrative, academic, cultural space of plurality and coexistence; a space of progress and well-being. We must make Catalonia, as we do with science, a political project that everyone calls for and no one excludes. That is our responsibility to Catalonia, that is our responsibility to science and our commitment. I hope we can all work together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u41	Thank you very much, Mr Roca. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Bel Accensi is speaking first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group - which will fix its position at this time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u42	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, one more week I will remind you that there is a Vice-President of the Government of the Generalitat and seven advisers imprisoned for political reasons. I remember him because TV3 speakers can't remember him. There are also two presidents of two entities who are political prisoners. [[Applauds]] Having said that, Mr Roca, I was concerned when I read the GNP; when I heard your speech I was more concerned, because you have come here to talk about your Unionist book and to put a little aside the issue before us. Look, the People's Party, the People's Party group in this House is calling for the protection of this House to urge the People's Party Government to address such pressing issues as: contributing to development and maintenance - not relying on the Government to contribute to the development and maintenance of the centre?-; supporting and promoting the activity of the Spanish Supercomputer Network - do we have to urge the Government to support this activity? Don't you trust that the People's Party government will support you?-, and then study - doesn't the People's Party government study to modify anything?~_. We have tabled a very simple, easy to accept and very concrete amendment. We ask them not to study, but that the Government should - it is their job - promote the amendment of Law 14/2011, of 1 June, on Science, Technology and Innovation so that the consortia have the status of implementing agents of the Spanish System of Science, Technology and Innovation and do not require authorization from the Administration to which they are assigned in order to be able to hire personnel. It is very simple, very easy and would solve an important part of the problem. I hope you will accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. The National Supercomputer Centre was established in 2004 by the Ministry of Science and Technology. You've heard well. Then, like throughout the period of the Aznar Government, Spain had a specific ministry dedicated to science and technology, but that same year it was suppressed with the arrival of Rodriguez Zapatero's Government and has not recovered. The correctness in the creation of this national center based in Barcelona is demonstrated because throughout its thirteen years of existence it has been credited not only as the central and main focus of computing in Spain, but as one of the major international centers. Its general director, Dr. Mateo Valero, who has been recognized and awarded as one of the world's leading supercomputer scientists, often repeats a categorical phrase: Country that does not compute, does not compete. Perhaps because Asturias gradually loses competitiveness, as all the official national and European indicators strongly believe, in Forum we also believe in the need for Spain to be more competitive, and if it is possible to place more emphasis on the fields of R+D+i and on all those related to medicine, disease prevention and cure, biotechnology, climate impacts or cybersecurity, among other aspects that the team of the National Supercomputer Center and the entire Spanish Supercomputer Network addresses. Therefore, an initiative such as the one just defended by Mr Roca of the People's Group, which calls for support for the management of high-performance computing resources and for the tasks that are being carried out in the facilities of the national centre and its nodes spread throughout Spain, can only pick up favourable votes, but it is also an opportunity to highlight that a great economic effort has recently been made to purchase and install a new version of its supercomputer, MareNostrum 4. It is therefore timely this parliamentary call to the Government to continue the important scientific research activities, supporting the recruitment of staff to consolidate the generation of jobs and the capitality of Barcelona as a global reference point for supercomputers, and axis of coordination with the infrastructure of the Spanish Supercomputer Network, in which thirteen supercomputers are interconnected with the aim of providing high-performance resources to the scientific community for the development of scientific and technological projects characterized by innovation and high quality. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u46	Very good afternoon. Mr Roca, we are surprised by this desire to talk about the Barcelona SuperComputer Center on these dates, among other things because it cost God and help to be located in Barcelona. You already know that Mr Aznar did not want him there, although in spite of this the international issue helped the SuperComputer Center to stop in Barcelona. On the other hand, I suppose when he told us about the father, the children, and the picking of branches he was referring to Muntaner's Chronicle when he talked about the cucumber forest. In any case there is what you have just said, because the tone has not been according to the one you have us used to, but let us go to the proposition not of law. It is clear that this is an initiative designed for the pre-election period in which we find ourselves, in order to cover 155. However, if you read the non-legislative proposal - as some other spokesman pointed out - you will realize that it does not cease to be a non-legislative proposal loaded with good intentions, but without effective content, and in this respect you can only see the amendments put forward by the rest of the parliamentary groups. The two amendments that we have tabled make clear some of the essential aspects to which you have forgotten to give concrete expression in the proposal. In this regard, and in order not to remain a mere declaration of will, we propose two amendments which constitute a specific and specific mandate, with the aim of removing the barriers existing at the time of the recruitment of research and technical personnel in the consortia dedicated to research and the management of scientific infrastructures, and which basically affect the amendment of two laws: the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector and the Law on Science, Technology and Research. We know for a fact that the Ministry of the Economy does not see it with a bad eye, in response to the needs of the sector and the goodness of the proposals made, as well as in order to generate greater flexibility, stability and ultimately greater competitiveness of the system. Another thing will be the Ministry of Finance. But all these aspects mentioned above to which I have referred, and ultimately the amendments that Esquerra Republicana proposes, are merely management; what is really relevant in the scientific field is that we dedicate resources to it and do so in a determined and planned way in those weaker aspects of the system. Let me remind you that a recent study on the Catalan Research and Innovation System indicates that in 2015 for every 100 euros of public expenditure in the Catalan public system of universities and science there was a social return of 402 euros to Catalonia's GDP, and the weakness of the Spanish State in this regard is precisely the percentage of GDP earmarked for R & D. All the data tells us that Spain is going to lose its dedication to R & D and that is published, public and notorious. Not only does the state not invest, it is true, but also the big Spanish companies do not invest in R & D; almost half of Spanish business spending on R & D was executed by SMEs. Note that they run counter to their economic and fiscal policies, which support large companies and run counter to SMEs. In short, those who are investing in R+D+i are the SMEs, which you usually have left out of God's hand. It is therefore desirable that, in addition to approving this non-law proposal - which we consider to be propagandistic in the full pre-election campaign situation, in order to try to cover some of the effects of the 155, which are many, are many - it would also be appropriate for the R & D+i budget to really grow and get closer to European levels, for you not to spend falsely on military research and devote resources to civil research, and for you to facilitate the research profession and the management of research and innovation agents. In short, you believe that research, science and technology are truly the future. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. Mr Ten Oliver has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u48	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The People's Parliamentary Group urges the Government of Spain, that is to say, itself, giving encouragement - in this I agree with Mr Bel, without precedent - to contribute to the development and maintenance of the Barcelona Supercomputation Centre, to support and promote the Spanish Supercomputation Network, and to study the amendment of the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector to facilitate the recruitment of investigative staff. I have already told you, Mr Roca, that our group will support this non-legislative proposal, hoping that you will accept our amendment, which will enrich your initiative. And it is that Citizens, unlike you, know that the engine of long-term growth in an economy is competitiveness, and for that it is essential to invest in research, development and innovation. Specifically, digital transformation is one of the greatest challenges facing advanced economies. Why do I say 'unlike you', Mr. Roca? Because our country is always late. Why? The answer is very simple: it's data. In other words, investment data in science and technology indicate that Spain does not reach half of our neighbouring European countries. Belgium, France, Germany, all of them are around 2% or 3% of GDP, and it is no coincidence that in the last ten years we have only grown in competitiveness one tenth of what our European neighbouring countries have done. Another fact: Spain stands out for the low added value in its ICT sector. In addition, employment in this sector accounts for less than 2%, which puts us at the tail of the OECD countries. Another fact: Between 2011 and 2016, investment in research and development fell by 25%, more than 2 billion euros.By the way, don't come to me with the mantra that there were no resources because there was crisis, because when they want to agree they do rescue highways, airports, do tax amnesty or even opacityly negotiate a calculation of the so-called Basque 'cup', transferring resources from the poorest communities to the richest ones. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I insist that in Citizens we give our full support to this national centre, distinguished also with the Severo Ochoa Excellence, which manages one of the most powerful supercomputers in Europe, the MareNostrum, with two vital functions: on the one hand, offering infrastructure and service in supercomputers to the Spanish European scientists, attracting talent, which is what is important; and on the other hand, allowing the generation of knowledge and technology to transfer them to society. And all this contributes, yes, to the fact that Barcelona is a leading city in innovation, connectivity and development, all of which, despite their commitment to independence and populism, to raising walls, encouraging company flight, losing investor confidence or even losing the headquarters of the European Medicines Agency that we have just met. And now we are listening again to Mr Puigdemont's Eurosceptic messages, similar to those of Marine Le Pen, in which he said that Europe is a club of decadent, obsolete countries, in which they send a few, linked to increasingly questionable economic interests. And they don't realize the damage they're doing to institutions, to the economy and to coexistence. The chairman of the Airef, the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, this very morning pointed out to us in the Committee on Budgets that uncertainty and loss of confidence lead to falls in economic activity. We had this same morning the data of the National Institute of Statistics that told us that in Catalonia the retail trade had fallen triple - triple - than in the rest of Spain, and that is that now more than ever a change of direction is needed. Albert Einstein said that if you look for different results, don't always do the same. Spain requires a country project that knows how to talk about you to the rest of the European countries. We are the third power of the euro and we need a productive model change, because in these three decades bipartisanism has accustomed us to high unemployment rates and precariousness. That is why our commitment is firm in research, development and innovation. We also started from the government in the 2017 General State Budgets the creation of the Brain Network of Technology Transfer, that is why in the 2018 Budgets we have also negotiated an increase in public investment, in addition to the creation of a fund to support entrepreneurs and startups, and that is why, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we do not understand how they can remain installed in the no and not support and negotiate these upcoming Budgets for 2018. I'm finishing up, President. Citizens have tabled an amendment aimed precisely at the launch of this Cervera Network of Technology Transfer that precisely favors the competitiveness of the Spanish economy of which I spoke. Citizens bet on the knowledge economy, dynamic and competitive, investing in talent now so that tomorrow we can generate opportunities for our children. Citizens are committed to education, work and innovation, as they are the fundamental engine for generating resources, which are really needed to maintain our welfare state. And remember, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing more progressive than investing in development and technology, because if we do not generate resources, we have nothing to share. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Ten. For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u50	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In 2005, the governments chaired by José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero and Pascual Maragall, with the support of the mayor of Barcelona Joan Clos, launched Barcelona Supercomputing Center, National SuperComputer Center. This is a project that the PP government has never seen as its own. Since Rajoy is president the funding has suffered cuts. The Socialist Group has recorded amendments to increase its annual allocation in all the General Budgets of the People's Party Government, which you have always voted against. Today we are faced with what seems to be a change in the position of the People's Party on this issue, you are very timely. But to include this debate in the plenary of the Congress on a scientific infrastructure based in Barcelona when we are about to start the electoral campaign of the elections in Catalonia is no longer timely, ladies and gentlemen, it is: opportunism! [[Applauds]] In any case, welcome be your opportunism!, if it is for good. By the way, reviewing the amendments tabled by the rest of the parliamentary groups, we have been surprised not to see any of the Members of Ada Colau, who I believe is the mayor of Barcelona. They may be as concerned as the European Medicines Agency. [[Applauds]] We are convinced in addition to the support of Minister Montoso, who will give the increase in expenditure involved in the initiative, because Montoro agrees, right? This same morning the National Institute of Statistics has published the final data on research and development spending for the year 2016, and they cannot be more discouraging. Research and development spending brings us back ten years, ten years, to 2006 spending levels. Spain is ranked 17th in the ranking in investment in research and development in relation to the gross domestic product of the Member States of the European Union, below countries such as Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Estonia or Hungary. Therefore propose - I open quotes - 'that the Congress urge the Government to contribute to the development and maintenance of the Barcelona Supercomputation Center' or - I reopen quotes -'support and boost the Spanish Supercomputation Network' seems practically a joke to us if it does not plan to increase the economic resources. In this respect, the Socialist Group proposes to amend these two points in order to increase the annual contribution, through the General Budgets of the State - that is why we do not vote on them - which will serve to increase or improve ongoing research projects. With the third point of their initiative, they outline a possible reform of the Law on the Law of the Public Sector to facilitate the recruitment of staff in research consortia. This is the true part of the whole initiative with which they try to say, albeit with a small mouth: We have to change the disguisedness that provoked the law that passed by the PP government with an absolute majority that ties the activity of the research consortia with their feet and hands. The Socialist Group has also spoken with the sector and with the representatives of the scientific consortia and, convinced of their demands, we tabled our amendment to the third point, which consists of an amendment to the Science Act to establish a specific legal regime for research consortia attached to the General Administration of the State that facilitates the management, operation and recruitment of personnel of these centres of excellence of the System of Science, Technology and Innovation of our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, accept our amendments and turn this opportunism into useful initiatives that really aim and bet on science, research and innovation that our economy and our society so much need. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Zaragoza. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for positions by the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u52	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Pick it up on. It is true that the European Union places high performance computing as a strategic asset for the continent in the Europe High Performance Computing Initiative and so the centre of Barcelona aspires to be the centre of reference in southern Europe. We have to say that the People's Party is once again bringing us a generic GNP as an instrument of impetus for the political action of the government which, in passing, belongs to its party. It is not wrong to encourage all institutions and actors in general with common guiding principles that are easy to share, but it does not seem very right to do so without concrete contributions that serve the purpose presented. In plain sight what we see are good intentions, they do not even explain to us the goodness of the centre, but neither is the Government urged to take any concrete action. The Super Computing Centre is well advanced, but it has to be equipped with a series of actions aligned with R & D policies, especially with regard to investment and public-private collaboration. It seems that they bring this initiative as a demonstration of support for Catalonia so that this centre does not miss the opportunity to be a reference in southern Europe, despite the irresponsibility of some, who have endeavoured to talk about the weaknesses of this community by obviating their strengths as a result of the political context that is currently being lived, and which certainly does not facilitate the implementation or reinforcement of such projects. The GNP mentions a problem to be studied that affects employment and not only the Supercomputing Centre. It should be addressed effectively, such as amending the Public Sector Contracts Act to facilitate and achieve stabilization of temporary employment in public consortia, which are considered implementing agents of the Science, Technology and Innovation System, and which comes from the controversy arising from the additional provision thirty-four of the State General Budgets and the Science Act. This will lead to greater competitiveness and knowledge for this sector. Although we do not see any specific initiatives or proposals, there are good intentions, so we will not block this GNP and vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Mrs. Vidal Sáez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u54	Good afternoon. Opportunism said some, but the truth is that we must have very little shame and a high degree of cynicism to bring this proposal to this House at the time we are here. It is a GNP that talks about contributing, supporting, encouraging and even studying the amendment of the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, a genuine cosmetic hairdo, where they pull from the abstract and intangible, and they go around the dictionary in order not to use the keyword: budgets. Budgets, ladies and gentlemen, the same as the People's Party is denying the R & D science sector. As the sector collapses with an accumulated cut of 24% since 2009, in the last budgets you have increased the item by a miserable 1%, and there is scope, but this government used it to prioritise basically military spending on budgets and capitulates. I don't know if you will remember, but it's funny that you want to talk about Barcelona's supercomputer today, especially because in the previous general budgets the People's Party, along with Citizens, of course, vetoed an amendment from our confederal group on it. Talking about supporting or pushing is incompatible with the asphyxiation and legal and administrative restrictions to which you are subjecting this centre. And it affects not only the supercomputer, but also the IPOs and public foundations, such as the CNIO, a rather reference center in cancer research, which cannot normally develop its activity in the face of an administrative control system that is not designed at all for the management of R+D+i, and which clearly negatively conditions the activity of our research centers. Moreover, you have undertaken to make the necessary exception to the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector so that you can expand your staff. They promised to fix it in the Senate. And you know what? They didn't do anything at all, nothing to fix it. They let the supercomputer, as well as the entire R & D and science sector in our country, get their ass in the air. We would like to be able to vote in favour of this proposal, but be sure that if there is no budgetary commitment attached to it we will have to abstain, because they are not just any letters of R & D, but they basically mean betting on research, development, progress and improvements, improvements, for example, of the productive processes, which help not only to improve the productivity of our companies, but also to move towards a much needed productive model change in our country. We speak of health, of priests, of a bet for evaluation and for knowledge at the end and end of life. They know that the situation of the R & D sector in Spain takes us away from the countries in our environment and puts us on a very, very, very difficult path to recover. Barcelona's supercomputer does not need support in abstract terms, but resources, budgets and more staff. And he's not the only one. We could also talk - as they want to talk about Catalonia today - about the ALBA synchrotron, a pioneer and underutilized center in equal parts. It has twice as much demand as points of light, but not for lack of space, but once again for lack of resources. The Syncotron has half the budget with which similar centres work at European level. His policy of not investing puts in check the growth potential of a center as important as the ALBA Syncotron. But let's also talk about working conditions, because in the Syncrotron, for example, 45% of its staff is temporary. In fact, even its manager is on a contract for construction and services and it is not an isolated case. Precarity and forced emigration are on the agenda in the R & D sector. The People's Party is not going to fool us and you are laughing and you are not constantly joining the research sector, but today you are standing here with this curious proposition. I wonder: why exactly the supercomputer of Barcelona? Let's be honest, you know, science matters to a cucumber. Why now, when today, without going any further, in El País, there was a news report that investment in R & D continues to lose weight in Spain despite the recovery? Why now this proposition? Because your opportunism goes even far beyond your responsibility to the sector and not even quoting Spiderman you are able to take away the view from where you really want to go with this proposal. You intend to use this proposal to give good government lessons to Catalonia and Barcelona. You want to give the image of being worried about Catalonia at this point. Let me suggest something to you. If you want to help Catalonia or Barcelona, remove Article 155 immediately once and for all. [[Applauds]] Stop intervening in the finances of the Generalitat de Catalunya. If you want to help us, repeal these decrees. And I tell you more: also repeal that shameful decree to facilitate the departure of companies from our country. You guys are a bunch of sociopaths. Yeah, yeah. And they have taken so far their thirst for revenge that it has even been worth applying a burning land policy to our economic fabric in Catalonia. The People's Party has no country project, has no idea where to lead the productive model, and absolutely ignores all the challenges of the twenty-first century for which science and research are especially key. So much, ladies and gentlemen! You want to help? Invest in R & D, bet on a change in the productive model and, please, stop destroying our country's productive fabric. And since we are, please fulfill your commitments. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Roca Mas whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u56	Yes, President. We are negotiating a compromise between several amending groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u57	All right. Notify the Bureau of the result to be taken into account in the voting. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, on the pricing of electricity and the need to adopt a reform of the electricity market. [[File number 162/000306]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u58	We turn to the debate on the next item on the agenda, which is the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, on the charging of electricity and the need to address a reform of the electricity market. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u59	Thank you, President. According to Eurostat data, in the first half of 2017 the electricity price in Spain was the third most expensive in the European Union before taxes for an average household, but it is clear that we are not exactly in the top per capita income positions in the European Union. The 12 % increase in light recognized by the ministry itself affects mainly those who receive the voluntary price for the small consumer, it affects 11.5 million people. The paradox is that the demand is smaller than it was a few years ago. It must therefore be concluded that we have an inefficient, expensive electrical system with a great impact on families and businesses and, moreover, ecologically unsustainable. At the end of February we discussed this GNP in the Committee on Energy. Now, months later, with the arrival of the cold, we find ourselves in the same situation of risk of price crises. The Government has done virtually nothing and has publicly rejected the introduction of far-reaching regulatory reforms. That is why we thought it necessary to hold this debate in the House today and to present this non-legislative proposal. What has the government done? The Council of Ministers approved an agreement establishing the obligation of the main gas operators - Endesa and Natural Gas - to exercise mandatory gas creators on the market to ensure greater liquidity and avoid price volatility, but the Government is late. This is a commitment from the minister ten months ago and without time to apply this measure before the cold. We are still waiting for the Secretary of State for Energy to establish the conditions and requirements for its development. And it goes wrong, because the approved measure is a patch that doesn't face the problems of an electric market that doesn't work at the gates of winter. Other measures, such as the new regulation of the social bonus, are clearly insufficient. The Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services has already stated that the regulations are discriminatory and insufficient and, according to a study presented by the City of Barcelona, if the Catalan law on energy poverty were not applied, 60% of the 10,000 people served could not be prevented from cutting supplies. Surprisingly, the PSOE, which had agreed with the Government on the Royal Decree-Law of the social bond, has submitted a PNL urging its reform within a few weeks of its publication. You, the Socialist Group, have agreed that with the PP government and are now putting forward the reform a few weeks after its publication. It seems that the pact with the PP was not as good as we were told; well, they never are, believe me, the pacts with the PP are never good. It is better to agree policies with other parliamentary groups, with us in this case, to combat energy poverty. Minister Nadal acknowledged that he could do nothing to lower the price of light... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u60	Wait a minute, Mr. Vendrell. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u61	He said that the minister acknowledged that he could do nothing to lower the price of light and ruled out structural modifications to the electrical system. And we have to act, because there are many people trapped between low wages, high prices and energy-inefficient housing. A revealing fact. According to a study by the Critical Energy Observatory, if the three major Spanish electricity companies had had the same operating margin as their British counterparts, they would have had 8 billion less net profits in the period 2008-2011. Is that because Spanish electrics are more efficient? Are they smarter? No, those benefits are, to a large extent, due to poor regulation, and that also has to do with rotating doors. The presence of political leaders that we all have in mind, who have passed through the government and who end up on the boards of big companies also has to do with bad regulation. It is true that climate factors, the lack of wind or rain or the increase in the price of gas and coal affect the price, but we have a structural problem which places us among the countries with the most expensive energy and which has to do with the poor regulation and the lack of solar photovoltaic energy in relation to other countries. Unfortunately, the electrical system has become a mechanism for the transfer of income, from income that goes from people's pockets to the balance sheets of large companies. In the wholesale market all the electricity that is sold is paid at the same price, regardless of the actual cost of generation; it is the so-called fallen profits of the sky. The last energy that enters the market, which is usually that of the gas plants and which is the most expensive, sets the price of the rest, also of the energy produced by hydraulic and nuclear plants that are already amortized. I mean, pay for gas-priced water. That is why we are proposing a tax on those fallen benefits from the sky that reverses into the electricity system itself, a tax on excessive benefits, such as that which the United Kingdom has approved in relation to the new nuclear power plant under construction in that country. They may say that we already have the hydraulic charge and taxes on nuclear power, but in addition to having low rates, their collection does not go to the electrical system to lower the price of energy. They will also say that the marginalist system is the same as that of other European countries, but in other countries, as we have seen, they have corrective measures that are not taken here. Generation prices should be regulated in such a way that the actual electricity production prices of each technology are taken into account, so we also propose an audit of the generation costs of each technology. Another problem is the tariff design itself. The fixed part of the power term is very high and energy saving efforts do not produce a proportional price reduction. Therefore, a tariff design is needed to ensure cheaper basic consumption and to penalise less efficient and higher consumption. I'm done. With planning that progressively introduced more renewable, the price of energy would fall. The rule is clear: at more solar photovoltaic energy, cheaper prices. We are paying dearly for the poor planning of the PSOE governments and the aversion to the renewables of the People's Party Government. Spain, the country of the sun, has 4500 megawatts of solar photovoltaic energy installed. Do you know how much a country like Germany has? 42 000 megawatts. In short, what we propose is that instead of begging for rain, they do something; that the Government push policies to guarantee the right to clean energy at reasonable prices. That's what this is about. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Vendrell. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, first of all, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u63	President, ladies and gentlemen, the price of electricity has become a serious problem for the Spanish. In the last decade, this receipt has increased by 28%, and it has also seen how it has increased due to poor practice and lack of energy planning. But the most serious thing is that since April this receipt has risen by 28%. At the beginning of 2017, the wholesale market has exceeded in a few hours the 90 euros megawatt/hour; price that is not only abnormally high, but that although in Europe different climbs have been experienced due to the waves of cold, French nuclear unemployment and other aspects, in Spain we also have to add to it the different problems and regulatory approaches, the retroactive measures that have been imposed directly on the bill of light and different political errors that in the end are paying the citizens on their bill. But focusing on the initiative, point 1 is about bringing real costs closer to the generation of the system. This seems desirable to us, we agree on that point and we include it in our electoral programme. In addition, we believe that at this point We can forget that a large part of that electric bill is the political mistakes that have been made during all these years; thus, those political charges also have to be reviewed and, of course, they have to be eliminated. In a session of the Energy Committee, Citizens proposed the withdrawal of one of these taxes, which meant an immediate reduction of almost 6% in the bill for light, and all political parties voted against it because they claimed that the tax financed the Autonomous Communities. I do not want to say anything, but I believe that autonomous financing has to be discussed within the framework of autonomous financing and not use the light bill as a piece to finance any of the autonomy. This is another of the mistakes we have on our light bill. In paragraph 2, the proposing party talks about a comprehensive audit of the system, which we share, which we believe is necessary and which we include in the agreement signed with the People's Party. But we have several differences, because the proposing party uses it as a legitimizing element of its perceptive solution, that is, of its model, and for us it has to be as part of the diagnosis so that we can then establish a new model which, in our opinion, must also adopt price fixing and include the advancement of technologies or other needs that the system can have linked, for example, to the protection of the environment. We understand that the thing - and with this I mean point 3o - is not going to create new taxes. We have a lot of taxes. Perhaps we need to redistribute well those that exist or start to apply them well, but the ultimate solution to our energy problem is not to create more taxes. That is why we have also amended this point. With regard to point 4, which was already debated in plenary because it was brought here by the Republican Left Party and we have already discussed it on several occasions in the Commission, it seems strange to us that it is brought here because this point only benefits the owners of second homes as it would only affect the second home. I don't know what to say, but that a party that's always talking about those people who can't have and can't afford to bring in measures that only favor those who have a second home seems a little conspicuous. In point 5, they speak of the nationalization of hydraulic power plants. We do not share this decision, especially because the Electricity Act itself states that the public administration cannot carry out activities within the competence system, in particular in the generation and distribution stages. I mean, we disagree, but at this point they have an ally, the People's Party, because the decree that came out this week talks about this nationalization and expropriation of power plants and, as it is from 50 megawatts, includes forty power plants. So, things of life!, who would tell us that the People's Party and Podemos would agree to nationalize power stations. [[Applauds]] The only way, ladies and gentlemen, to move towards consensus is precisely to consider this renewable management, to bet on a clear model, but not to start bringing in different initiatives that are still patchy in our energy system. We must really sit down, adopt a state energy pact, which would be the only one that has been so far, and of course end that energy transition and climate change law. We have amended several points. We hope that you will accept the amendments to these points; if not, we will have to decide, depending on what the text is like, what our assessment will be. But the message for citizens on how to lower the receipt of light really has to be, first, with real planning; second, with a framework that is established in the law of energy transition; third, with a project that includes as horizon the renewable energies, with an audit that tells us how much things cost us to know what we are paying, especially by removing taxes or political errors from the bill of light and leaving, of course, to finance the autonomy via bill of light and fundamentally being aware of where we want to go, by not putting patches on something very important as is the bill of light. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Galeano Gracia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Almost a year ago, Mr Vendrell, we discussed a replica of this GNP in the Committee on Energy, as you said, and we are still here, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that with the same positions, similar amendments and I also imagine that with a similar vote. Allow me the expression, ladies and gentlemen: we live as if we were Bill Murray in the famous marmot-day movie. And it is that there are fewer and fewer days, if no one repairs it, to see Mr. Rajoy again calling upon the gods of rain, those rains that somehow mitigate, among other things, a new rise in the receipt of light. Today, for the record, it's raining. This receipt does not allow Mr Nadal to sleep, many citizens or many Spanish companies. Because, to this day, none of us have noticed, ladies and gentlemen, that the broth of cultivation is almost perfect for the same scenario to be generated again a year ago. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, during that month we were told from the ministry that the perfect storm had occurred, that is, high demand for electricity, poor weather in terms of rain or wind scarcity, temporary stoppage of nuclear power plants in France and also high prices in raw materials. But, ladies and gentlemen, curiously, about a month ago - to be exact, the 23rd of October - we again reached an alarming tip on the price of light: nothing more and nothing less than we are talking about 182 euros megawatt/hour, in an environment that curiously was of low demand at that time and with a lot of wind energy. In this case, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, could one speak of a perfect storm or should one speak of a mere autumn breeze? The technical reason is, we are told, that the market operator wanted to guarantee the security of the offer in case the god Eolo failed and activated the so-called adjustment market, different from the daily and intraday and without price limits, by the way. But, ladies and gentlemen, the CNMC is not clear about this distortion that took place on the 23rd, nor is it clear about interruptibility auctions, and this translates into a total mistrust of the consumer, who always regards this market, the electricity, as the one with less competition and transparency of the existing ones, or at least that tells us the surveys we know. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest reform in the electricity sector is one of those many laws of the People's Party which achieves something tremendously difficult, such as putting everyone in agreement and against them: consumers, user associations, parliamentary opposition, experts, the competition regulator. I sincerely believe that the perfect storm is that of its electrical reform, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. That is why the imperfections that characterize this system and the importance of this strategic input for our productive sector and for the citizens' pocket - do not forget - have caused virtually all opposition groups to demand an audit of the electricity sector, to know what we actually pay for. That independent audit that we Socialists demand would give at least one answer and a certainty to the doubts of millions of Spaniards about what that sheet of paper that many of them still receive at their homes means, and to us, the political groups, would provide us, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with an adequate X-ray of the situation to apply the best possible medicine. We believe from the Socialist Group that the reform of Minister Soria - yes, Minister Soria -, back in 2013, has been a real failure, has deepened, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in the weakness of the system, has not served to stop the increase in costs for consumers or small businesses, has not promoted energy efficiency and has also contributed to increasing the legal insecurity of investors. But the measures announced by Mr Nadal over the past year, such as the great news of the market maker in the gas sector, have not been helpful either. Other speakers have already commented earlier that our marginalist price-forming market suffers from a more speculative market volatility and has once again placed our country at the forefront of the rise of light in Europe over the last few months. The CNMC has expressed its intention to investigate the resuming of the price of the day mentioned above, on 23 October. The complete opposition wants to investigate the guts of our electric market and improve what is clearly better. Will the government and the People's Party allow it or will we follow all the Spanish in January next year, like Phil Connors, trapped in time? Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Galeano. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. A month ago, the United Parliamentary Group Podemos presented an initiative, which was endorsed by the Socialist and Citizens' Group, certifying the closure of the thermal power plants by 2020, which fuelled the announcement of Iberdrola's request for closure of its Lada and Velilla power plants, creating a major concern in Asturias and Palencia for the threat to thousands of direct and indirect jobs and culminating in the policy of closure of coal mining undertaken by the PSOE in 2010 and industrial desertification. Instead of defending the only autochthonous fossil fuel that we have abundantly in Spain, we prefer closure to thermal power plants rather than providing them with financing to install and apply the technology needed to achieve the European Union's planned zero emissions target and to obtain clean coal in the future, all of which is included in our electoral coalition programme with the People's Party. This afternoon we come back to the stage with a new series of proposals that persist in reforms that, if carried out, could the electric market legs up... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u68	Quiet. One moment, Mr. Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u69	... as they would have generated costs from the energy bill in a percentage close to 40%...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u70	One moment, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. I've stopped his time. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. I ask you, if you have long conversations to keep, to do them in the attached rooms or in the corridors and not in this Chamber. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u71	He said that they would end up generating energy bill costs of around 40% and would increase the reception of light for domestic users, businesses and businesses, as well as other serious consequences on economic growth and employment. For Asturias, which has several of our country's most energy-intensive industries, these approaches are disparate and unacceptable and pose a threat to the region's economy and employment, and also to Spain, because our very high energy dependence, coupled with the loss of energy sovereignty by the gradual exclusion of coal from the mix, would undermine our integration into the development of the single European energy market. Instead of the measures that are proposed as a matter of urgency, as we have reflected in the Forum programme and have been calling for for many years, it is energy planning that will eliminate the great criminalization of our industry's competitiveness, imitate what is being applied in other countries of Europe and address the needs of companies by drawing up a strategic energy plan, setting guidelines for the future of our energy model and defining the weight that each of the production technologies will play in the energy mix. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Candela Serna has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, just less than a month ago, on 17 November, Minister Nadal acknowledged that he could do absolutely nothing to lower the receipt of light because, according to him, of market rules, lack of rain, blablabla, blablabla. It might seem like a statement of his incompetence, but that incompetence has two very important consequences. Firstly, for our productive structure, since the price differential affects the country's competitiveness and, secondly and most importantly, it is that the receipt of light will rise by an average of EUR 100 this year. This, together with approximately 5 million people at risk of energy poverty, puts their hair at the top. And as I have little time, I am going to accept the government's premises, I am going to accept Nadal's premises, I am going to assume that the government is not incompetent, but that it is really impossible to reduce the price of light because the market works perfectly, that there are no profit rates for some energies of 200 to 300 % and I will also accept that it is a competitive market like no other, in addition to legal certainty for small investors. If we accept all these premises and you can't lower the price the light, we have a question: if you can't, why do you resort to Valencian law against energy poverty? Why do you, instead of encouraging collaboration between governments so that no one will be cold this winter, do the opposite? Why do they object to protecting people? There is an even greater doubt in the form of a trilemma that this Government poses to us, between incompetent, sadistic and the Government of electric power. We do not know what it is and we would like the Government to respond. I'm done. I have just been confirmed that Mr Nadal will not come to this plenary to explain. It is confirmed that, in addition to incompetent, he is not up to it and does not face the seat of popular sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to support this compromise text that is driving the United States. We can because, of course, the best industrial policies mean a moderation in energy prices and business costs in favour of competitiveness. We must say that it is a drama that for so many years the price of electricity has been fixed in such an unrealistic way through those known by all of us as masked invoices. We must face a challenge, the challenge of improving efficiency, which basically means spending less on energy consumption. In turn, this means something that at the moment does not occur in the receipt of light because it is paid much more for the contracted power than for the actual consumption in each period. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a flat rate that does not offer any incentive to save and to make energy consumption more efficient. A commitment to renewable energy must also be addressed. With regard to the energy transition, the French Government is currently integrating promotion policies, energy policies and environmental policies into one portfolio. The electric car is on stand-by by government policy; the sun tax no longer speaks neither the government nor citizens. Yesterday we had important news from the European Union on coal subsidies, considered by the European Union as unused State aid and for which a file was opened for the possible return of funds. And, to all this, Mr President - and this concludes - we have an energy policy in which the central government challenges and brings to the Constitutional Court those policies of the Generalitat in favour of energy saving and in favour of combating energy poverty. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u77	Thank you, President. Already last year, and as a result of the cold wave we had, we already experienced a certain controversy about the prices of the electricity market and how it affected the electricity rates of the different consumers; it seems that this year we are going the same way because of the drought and the lack of wind. Again, thanks to external factors, the issue of the price of light appears again, and it has to be recognized that after the continuous increases in the price there are structural and regulatory problems that Spain is dragging forward and that it is also worsening with the emergence of new technologies, whose competitive capacity seems to be incompatible with the current regulation of the electricity market. The decarbonisation of the economy, the objective of the Paris agreements, means that the costs indirectly related to electricity supply quadruple electricity tariffs, that tariffs are above the European average and that it is the electric consumer who bears a large part of the cost of financing renewables. This calls for a deep energy transition and, therefore, for a reform of the current system that not only reduces the electricity bill and improves the competitiveness of industry, but also solves the problem of financing renewables, which also allows us to be in line with other countries in the environment. With regard to GNP, I would like to comment that we would agree with some of the points in the approach, but we should also take care of the committee of experts, as they are working on this. With regard to the audit of costs, we see that it is necessary to facilitate knowledge of the costs of each technology and to know what we pay, and we also need to bear in mind that the NCMC could provide us with information on this. With regard to point 3, it is true that it would change the forecasts of recovering the fixed costs of the installations and, therefore, some of them could no longer work, so we should take into account the existing need for backup technology. The application of the new collection taxes in Law 15/2012 had also established something similar, reducing the operating margins of the facilities, although they are now in question. At this point, we should know the implications they entail, taking into account also what will be proposed - as I have already said - in the energy transition, but also trying to change the pay system, since, for example, hydroelectric concessionaires are paid for the investment made and not for the production of water. The system of renewal of concessions should also be changed, as should stricter environmental measures. With regard to the fourth point, the first point to comment on is that the regulated tariff currently does not only reflect the costs of network activity, but also covers renewable premiums or extra-penisular costs. Therefore, increasing the variable part by a percentage would introduce additional collection risk because any reduction in consumption would mean less collection, thus not covering the regulated costs of the tariff and generating deficit. The proposal to create tariff blocs that penalise higher consumption also has the drawbacks of its practical application - typology of domestic consumers, industrial, how the consumption blocs would be applied - and these implications should be analysed in detail. On the last point, we would not agree, in particular, with the current arrangement of the electrical industry for the separation of activities. The generation of power plants is a competitive activity, so it is difficult for that activity to change its ownership, although we would agree that the method of remuneration should be changed, as I have said, and it should also be distinguished between those with management capacity, which are the most productive, and those which cannot be managed, such as mini-hydraulic. It is not because of public management that this has to be more or less effective. Finally, before implementing isolated measures, account should be taken, as I said earlier, of the report being prepared by the committee of experts, who are the ones who have to develop the scenarios and proposals to facilitate the energy transition to a cleaner scenario and in line with the guidelines set by the European Union to ensure not only the competitiveness of the economy, but also economic growth, job creation and environmental sustainability. For this reason, we believe that this report needs to be taken into account in order to implement not only the appropriate measures but also the time horizon for achieving this energy transition. We will look forward to hearing the amendments that are accepted in order to establish our position in this regard. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr García Aegean has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, reading this non-law proposal I had had a déjà vu, I thought I had already lived it, and when I continued reading I remembered and realized that it was true: I had already lived it, we had already debated this proposal in the Energy Committee and, moreover, with the same inconcretions, the same generalities and - more importantly - the same misconceptions. For Podemos today it is clear - and it has become clear also during these months - two correlative variables, and that is that when the price of light rises, the demagogy with which Podemos acts rises; when the price of light decreases, the volume with which the purple speakers usually intervenes, is not heard. My group and I want the bill for light to be as low as possible, for the Spanish to pay little for electricity, for us to be competitive, but all this is not achieved with these demagogic proposals; all this is achieved with concrete proposals and with measures that will achieve the proposed objective. The price of light falls if concrete and well-planned measures are taken, because the last few years - I have been very saddened to hear the Socialist spokesman make the assertions he has made, especially when he has so much to shut up - have left us two models. The model of the Socialist Party: higher costs to the system, a tariff deficit of 28 billion euros and a 70 % more expensive bill of light between 2004 and 2011. People's Party model: lower system costs, lower tariff deficit and a reduced light bill, in the sense that we have carried out a restructuring. I can agree on the need to reform the tariff structure. I can agree that we can ask ourselves whether the cost of the tariff deficit or the costs external to the generation have to be paid by taxpayers or by the electric consumer. We could ask ourselves that question today, it would be legitimate and also useful for the citizens, but if we do not address the substance, the rest is nice but we deceive the people, which is what is being done today by some. From the Socialist Party, moreover, when they ruled, they got the square of the circle: retirees and families paid 70% more, they brought the system to bankruptcy, the light went up 70% and they also sold electrical preferents to investors, and then the People's Party had to fix it and had to pay all those people who invested in good faith, believing that there was a serious and responsible government behind it. [[Applauds]] We can, Citizens and Socialist Party today agree to propose an audit of the electricity system. You know that when you don't have concrete ideas to do, you propose an audit to see if you throw the ball forward and someone can think of something. Well, I have decided today to make the work easier for you, here is the audit that officials and technicians have done for all of you; they have audited up to the last line of distribution in this country, valued specifically, as well as their remuneration. For example, I would have liked Mr Vendrell to have come today and proposed that Royal Decree 1047/2013, of 27 December, on one of its pages has a formula on the investment value of the installation j, which states that the commissioning of before 1998 is calculated with this quotient and in his opinion that term is not well placed because it is harmful to the State, to the consumer, etc. [[Show a document]] [[Marks a formula in the document]] This is what I think needs to be done. I mean, we're going to do a different audit than the state services, officials and technicians have done because maybe we can know more than they do. I, of course, try to start from concrete and coherent things. With what calculation formulas do they differ? What would change in the pay model and where? These are questions that I allow myself to ask, but I think they won't get an answer. There are clear examples in Europe of what should not be done. Listening to some European cases, I have the feeling that either you do not know the cases or you try to deceive us or you have been deceived. There are two slogans that often repeat - and the spokesman of Podemos here has done it and, moreover, I wrote it before listening to him because I knew that you, typical, were going to say that you have to do what Germany does - you have to do what Germany does. Sounds good, doesn't it? After dismantling nuclear power in Germany, the consumer pays 32% more when the tariff is doubled; here it will be different because Podemos proposes it, here it is always different! There is also another slogan: as in the Nordic countries. We must do what the Nordic countries do. That sounds good! Like in the Nordic countries! But not the nordics of cardboard, who are of those who speak to us here, but the nordics of truth. The real Nordics, for example Sweden, have launched ten nuclear reactors and their Parliament has passed a law to boost and support nuclear energy. The model they propose doesn't work in any country in the world, but here, in Spain, as Podemos proposes, it will be different, I suppose. I also recognize that they are unique in their search for slogans, then there is nothing behind, but how good is that 'democratisation of energy'! Then, none of them are able to set up self-consumption facilities of less than 10 kilowatts of power, which are the ones that do not pay any kind of toll, but they are filled with the mouth here of democratisation of energy. It is sad to see - and I am very sorry to see it - the mayoralization, a little bit of the mayoralization of Citizens. The spokesman for Citizens also introduces an anachronistic concept, like Podemos and the Socialist Party, and talks about the fallen benefits of heaven. They won't deny me it's not a catchy slogan: fallen benefits from heaven. Let me tell you that electricians have a profitability on the capital employed in Spain that is lower than their capital cost - and Mr. De la Torre looks at me because he knows what I'm talking about and could explain it to the rest of the speakers -. I've been worried about this concept because I want you to point out to me what those fallen benefits of heaven you're talking about because that has to be regulated. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Have they analysed the remuneration of the distribution that is paid below the capital cost? When you write these lines, do you understand that depreciation must include operational costs? These are key questions that sadly remain unanswered. Finally, they also add the nationalization - I cannot agree because it is not true - of hydroelectric power stations. The only thing we do, Mrs Citizens' Spokesman, is to ensure that the general interest is always present in the management of hydroelectric energy. They also show something original, unique, something that no one had ever raised before, which is to put a charge on the fare...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u80	Let me conclude, Mr. García Eggea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u81	I'm finishing up. ... to compensate for an alleged difference or gap between the cost price and the generation price. Of course, I suppose that position that you want to introduce in the tariff will be paid by the presidents of the big companies and that that certainly does not reach the small consumer, it will never be passed on to the small consumer. What a great idea, what a great idea! In short, the relationship between poverty and the left, poverty and everything you have put forward here is clear and I would like solutions to be provided to the electricity system. Solutions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u82	Mr. García Aegean, you have to come to an end.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u83	That's where I leave one for you to go deeper: end the overproduction of electricity and mobility and electrify mobility to decrease CO2. And one last fact, president - three seconds -: There has been talk here of R+D+i, with slogan. Today, the data came out this morning. Andalusia and Extremadura - PSOE, Citizens and Podemos - lead the fall in the recruitment of researchers, 8% and 9%; the positive recruitment of researchers is led by Castile and León and the Region of Murcia. They'll have to learn something. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u84	In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Vendrell Gardañes whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u85	We have made a compromise proposal to the amending groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u86	We shall take this into account for the vote. Thank you very much. [[Mr García Aegean asks for the floor]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u87	On a point of order. Having noted with initial dismay that we had indeed been called sociopaths by the spokesman for Podemos, Mrs Vidal, we would like you to withdraw that statement from the Journal of Sessions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u88	I ask Mrs Vidal whether, as requested by the People's Parliamentary Group, you withdraw the term'sociopaths'.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u89	The truth is that sociopaths are those people who show no empathy for others or remorse for their actions, so no, I don't take the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u90	All right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u91	We continue to debate the next item on the agenda. Motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group into the Government's forecasts regarding the modification of the expenditure rule applicable to local entities. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs. Sumelzo Jordan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u92	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we bring this subject back to the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies and with this motion we Socialists demand that Mr Rajoy's Government give once and for all a solution to the problems of finance, local finance and public service which have been raised by the municipalities for years. We demand, once again, Mr Rajoy and Mr Montoro to stop treating the municipalities as if they were a second divisional administration; the municipalities are also the state and are the administration closest to the citizen, the first door to which they call, and since the ruling of the People's Party almost six years ago, the local entities are suffering constant harassment and interference in their local autonomy, recognized in the Constitution in article 140. And with the local reform of the People's Party, which is now four years old, the government has cut down local powers and power, and with the implementation of this local counter-reform, they have left local entities without resources and without the possibility of fulfilling their role, which neighbours demand every day: employment plans, welfare policies, youth policies, equality policies, municipal infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, the municipalities have fulfilled their commitments to budgetary stability far enough, I said this last Wednesday in the question to Minister Montoro, and paradoxically it is the government of the People's Party that has abandoned them to their fate. [[Applauds]] The municipalities do not know their share in the State's income, nor the share in the income of the autonomous communities, nor the criteria on the replacement rate of the casualties in the workforce nor the salary increase of the public employees. Municipal budgets are already on the table and 2018 is around the corner, and local government teams already need the criteria of the government and Mr Montoro, and have not given them. The reality is that the Government of the People's Party has left the municipalities working blindly, and therefore the Socialist Parliamentary Group with this motion proposes that the commitments made by the Government with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces be fulfilled and that the application of the expenditure rule be reviewed and made more flexible. In 2016, local government expenditure fell by 1.2%, meeting the target for all local authorities. The government has unilaterally set the expenditure rule at 2.4% for 2018, without the proposals of the FEMP or the mayors being heard at any time. And I repeat once again: the compliance councils, which are the ones presenting the sound public accounts and to which the People's Party Government penalises, are calling for flexibility to apply the spending rule, so we are bringing this motion to this House for debate today. [[The lady]] The socialists propose that the limitations that the local entities currently have to reinvest their surplus be changed, we propose that every municipality, as long as it has the clean accounts and in use of its full financial autonomy, be able to invest the surplus that it generates in everything that it considers to be a priority for its neighbours. I insist, because the municipalities are also state and the local entities have also been unilaterally subjected by the government to a public debt limit for 2016 of 3% of GDP. Having complied with this limitation, since the total outstanding debt of all local entities stood at 2.9% of GDP at the end of 2016, we propose to the Government a review of the restrictions on the conclusion of borrowing operations by local entities not involved in the assumptions of the Stability Act. Finally, we must not forget that the local administration has seen the number of its staff reduced to a greater extent than the rest of the public administrations. In five years it has lost nearly 100 000 public jobs, which means a reduction of 15.39% and this, ladies and gentlemen, has led to a situation in which local authorities face serious difficulties in providing quality public services, especially in small and medium-sized municipalities with few staff, where it is almost impossible to obtain new staff covering the casualties. That is why we also propose to change the regulation of the replenishment rate in the local government, so that 150% of services of priority interest and 100% of other municipal services are covered by the regulation. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is fair to respond favourably to the requests we have made in our motion. The Socialist Group will accept one of the points raised in the amendment tabled by the United Group of the European People's Party, which was agreed with the Socialist Group in the Committee on Finance a few days ago and which are directly in line with the Socialist Group's proposals. We ask the rest of the parliamentary groups to vote in favour of it because we must be at the side of the municipalities defending local autonomy and betting on strong municipalities with decision-making capacity and adequate resources to respond to citizens' demands. That is why we Socialists once again demand a stable and sufficient funding system for the municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sumelzo Jordan. In defence of the amendment made by your group, by the Confederal Group of the European United Left-wing Party, Mrs Montero Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u94	Thank you, President. My group, as Mrs Sumelzo has already announced, is going to vote in favour of this motion tabled by the Socialist Group and we are going to vote in favour because we believe it is necessary for the plenary to state, as the Committee on Finance has already stated, that Mr Montoro makes use of the expenditure rule completely unjustified from the economic point of view and also from the legal point of view, and we also welcome the fact that we have managed to reach that compromise which is also inspired by the things that have been adopted in the Committee on Finance in the previous months and with the work in this case by Mrs Sumelzo. However, the Spaniards who are watching us must know something and it is that this motion has an undoubted political value, but it is a lawless initiative and that means that, even if it is adopted, the People's Party will be able to continue to do exactly what it likes with the rule of spending and that is why we have put forward this same proposal in the form of a bill to bind and force the government and become a law that allows Mr Montoro not to continue playing with the municipalities. Do you know what the government did when it received this proposal in law form? For trying to veto it, as it does with almost all the proposals, but they are already doing so in such a mechanical way that they have proposed the veto four minutes late after the deadline is over, so they have not arrived in time, ladies and gentlemen, and my group will bring to debate in this House the proposal to amend the expenditure rule. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is not reasonable that a town council that is well managed, that has healthy accounts, that has balance or surplus, that goes down its level of indebtedness and that pays suppliers in time and form cannot spend its surplus, that is, what it saves, on policies to improve the lives of its neighbours and neighbours. It's completely incomprehensible. It doesn't make any sense to anyone, except for you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, because removing the surplus from the municipalities is the only way you have to try to cover up the disastrous state accounts you leave every year. [[Applauds]] This is the second thing that the Spanish should know. The same rule of spending that the People's Party imposes on municipalities is breached each and every year by the central administration governed by Mr M. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] And of course he has never been subjected to any corrective or coercive measures for failing to comply with that spending rule. You have carried the Spanish public debt to 100 percent of the gross domestic product; you make precarious labour policies that prevent workers from paying good taxes; you make unconstitutional tax amnesties that allow the rich not to pay and, when you see that there is no money, you will suffocate the municipalities to get the money they forgive the rich who have their accounts in Panama. [[Applauds]] That is the problem we have in this country. There is something even more unjustifiable, which is the third thing that the Spanish should know about the spending rule. The People's Party does not force all municipalities to fail to comply with this tortuous rule of spending, but simply those who want to. Thus, you intervene the City of Madrid, one of the municipalities that is best managing in Spain, which is saving while investing more in social policies. In just two years it has reduced 40% of the debt left by its colleagues, Gallardón and Botella. However, they forgive the systematic breach of the rule of spending to the previously ruled council by the number 2 of Mr Montoro, who left him in technical bankruptcy, which is the City of Jaén, the most indebted one per inhabitant. [[Applauds]] That's what they do. Come on, you, People's Party, use the spending rule in a trappy way to intervene the municipalities of change and hide the economic disasters that the mayors of their own party generate. And how is it possible that they can do this? Here, in addition to talking about its tortuous use of the law, I have to address the Socialist Group's bench, because the law in which the People's Party and Mr Montoro are hiding to apply this is nothing more and nothing less than the shameful reform of Article 135 of the Constitution that you, being in government, have agreed with the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Perhaps now is the time for them to commit themselves to reversing that reform and to shielding social rights in the Constitution, primarily so that no Mr Montoro can continue to steal from neighbors and neighbors, which is what is happening right now in the municipalities. I'm done with this. The only thing you are looking for, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, doing these things, such as intervening in the Madrid City Hall, is to prevent us from proving that we can rule better and without stealing, as you do. Better and not stealing. [[Applauds]] Citizens' money can be used to make schools and hospitals or to improve sports facilities instead of taking it to Panama, Switzerland, Andorra or any of those other countries, tax havens that they like so much. I ask Mr Montoro, even if he is absent today, to stop putting his hand in Madrid City Hall. And most importantly, in spite of you, we are going to bring to this plenary this proposal in the format of a bill so that, if it is passed, it has legal effects and links to the government. We will not allow them to sabotage the work of the municipalities of change, which are proving that it can be governed better and without stealing. [[Applauds]] The change in Spain has come to stay, even in spite of you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montero Gil. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u96	From Euskal Herria Bildu we will call for the repeal of both the Law on Budget Stability and the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Entities, because they are a frontal attack on local entities, their competences and their very existence. These are laws with a marked refocusing character that limit the functioning of these administrations to the service of the citizenry, which makes many municipalities involved in practice and, therefore, without the possibility of responding to the needs of the citizenry. I know that the Spanish state likes to intervene very much; it does so in Catalonia, it does it with the municipalities and it does it anywhere it can still. As I said, this law obliges the municipalities to always record budgetary balance, while other administrations are allowed deficit and the State reserves the greatest deficit capacity for itself, even though the municipalities are the closest institutions, as I have pointed out before. The state remains at 80% of the deficit, leaving 19% for the autonomous communities and 0% for the local entities. It is the same state that took the famous social security hut with 70.5 billion euros and today, a few years later, it causes negative numbers to drop 176 million euros. The same State that says that in Catalonia or in Euskal Herria pensions could not be paid has a serious problem in paying the pensions of its perfect system in the Spanish State. Those are the same ones who want to tell the municipalities what they can and can't spend, as if they hadn't forgiven the banks' debt, for setting another example. It is unacceptable from any point of view that the municipalities should continue to be protected. - I'm done. It is incomprehensible that, for example, the citizens of Tutera, Lizarra or Iruña are told that they cannot have more resources - resources than their municipalities would be willing to put, because they have had a surplus - because there is a law of Mr Montoro that prevents it. Mr. Montoro may have accumulated so much power that he considers himself all-powerful and makes his own that psalm of the Bible which says that of the Lord - Montoro - is the earth and all that is in it, the world and those who dwell in it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. Mr Candela Serna has the floor, but I do not see him in the Chamber. [[Pause]] Then Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us support this initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group that we have discussed and that we have taken so many times to this rostrum. This morning in the Committee on Budgets, the chairman of the Airef appeared, and noted that the only objective of the expenditure rule applied to municipalities is to generate an already almost structural surplus of 5, 6 or 7 tenths which Mr Montoro constantly uses to compensate for his non-compliances with the General Administration of the State and with social security. When you bring the deficit targets to this House and, your partners approve them, you are aware that you are not going to meet the deficit targets of the central administration or social security, but with the restriction of the application of the spending rule to local corporations they are going to generate a surplus that you cannot spend. Moreover, this morning the President of the Airef noted something that should not be missed: those who are most adversely affected by the application of the expenditure rule are precisely the small and medium-sized municipalities, which have the least capacity to apply their remnants to financially sustainable investments. We will therefore support this initiative and any other initiative they bring to this House. If we are lucky enough for the government to spend a few minutes and the legislative initiative that allows it to be amended, we will also amend it and support it. Nor does it make sense that we are talking about the replacement rate in some public services of the municipal administration. That debt-free municipalities, absolutely healthy municipalities, have problems in hiring more staff, in providing better public services to their fellow citizens is not understandable; it is not understandable here, nor is it understandable in the rest of the European Union. They must also make an effort: to those municipalities that do not comply, let us set rules. Those who comply, there is no reason, no reason to restrict either the recruitment of staff, their investment capacity or their capacity to spend, which would boost the economy of their municipalities and of the whole State. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u99	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Group will support this motion which is before us today, although it must be said that in February and a few weeks ago we discussed this issue in order to try to renew the expenditure rule, which it does at last is to limit the expenditure capacity of local authorities, even when they have surpluses. It is a rule that has, on the contrary, served to square, as everyone else has already said, the accounts of other administrations and, therefore, to meet the deficit targets set by Europe. Since the adjustment programme established by Europe with the Law on Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability began to be implemented in Spain until this year 2017, the only administrations that have reduced the debt burden and volume have been local ones, which have reduced it to 2.8 of GDP. However, the debt of the Autonomous Communities has grown and that of the Central Administration, including Social Security, has also grown. Thus, the surplus of local governments is crucial to achieving the budgetary stability objectives committed to Europe. In fact, the surpluses, as we have said, are compensating for the breaches of the Central Administration and Social Security. The expenditure rule does not correspond to an accounting calculation, but is an estimate of the level of growth that should have GDP in the medium term in order not to generate excessive inflation. The option adopted by Europe, on the other hand, is consistent with the nature of the expenditure rule because it incorporates discretionary elements, is calculated as a multiannual average and generates a data that is very sensitive to the specific period taken as a reference. Here, however, to the extent that administrations are achieving their respective medium-term stability objectives, the expenditure rule becomes the main budgetary constraint, as it states that annual public expenditure growth should not exceed the potential growth rate of GDP in the medium term. The consequences of the application of this rule of expenditure, especially in healthy and surplus municipalities, mean a decrease in the decision-making capacity of municipalities, and to this must be added that municipalities have little room to increase revenues because they have little regulatory capacity to regulate taxes. Therefore, we believe that the current application of the expenditure rule in local entities presenting sound public accounts should be modulated, taking into account, at best, different indicators, such as fiscal effort. It is a reform requested and supported also by Airef. On the other hand, the motion also talks about the modification of the replacement rate. We agree, because our group has always argued that it is a blind and uniform measure in which there has been no analysis from the perspective of human resources management, nor has it taken into account the effect it has had on public services. In addition, we understand that it is for each Administration to design its own human resources policy, taking into account its competencies and budgetary capacity. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, a little silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group has brought back to the House a matter that we have already discussed in the Committee on Finance, which is the rule of expenditure, which is somehow talking about fiscal stability. The first surprise here is that, by accepting the United States amendment, we are not talking about making the spending rule more flexible, but about exempting certain local entities from the application of the spending rule. This, in practice, means that local entities that have surpluses will no longer have them, and would lead us to breach the European rules that oblige all public administrations to follow an expenditure rule that is, in fact, better and we can change, but there has to be a modern and well-designed expenditure rule. What cannot be done is that when an entity has a surplus, even if it is of a short-term nature, it has the right to spend it immediately, because that is to compromise the State of well-being and the interests of the citizens. In this regard, on the issue of stability today we have heard a number of news. Firstly, the President of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority - against what Mrs Montero has said here - has said that this year the three fiscal rules will be complied with, that is, the deficit will be fulfilled, the debt will be fulfilled and the expenditure rule will be complied with. I do not say this; you have it in the presentation that the President of the Airef has left in this House. Why? Because when good agreements are made, such as the budgetary agreement we have concluded with the People's Party, and when revenue forecasts are well made, for the first time the tax rules are complied with. This is of transcendental importance, because we leave for history the cuts and massive tax increases and it is that, in the end, when the tax rules are not met, when you spend what you don't have, the result is always the same, and the most disadvantaged pay it, and it is the cuts and massive tax increases. On the other hand, this fiscal stability has its threats. For example, today the Secretary of State for Budgets, also in Congress, said that the minimum income proposal would literally lead to the bankruptcy of the welfare state. I don't think that's the case, but the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority itself says this would cost us EUR 15 billion a year. However, the People's Party government here did not exercise the right of veto, and now we have this on the table. However, it has taken very little time to exercise the right of veto, for example with the reduction of the cinema's VAT, which is EUR 60 million. On the other hand, as Mrs Montero has rightly said, it is true that the Government has also not been effective in vetoing the amendment of the Organic Law on budgetary stability in line with what we want, which is much more aggressive than that of the Socialist Party with citizens' pockets, because it exempts the vast majority of public-law entities in Spain from the application of the expenditure rule. I mean, it's going to allow them to spend more than they get in, and this is always the first part of which we all end up having tax increases and cuts. We can't support this because it's not a good idea. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that the whole world has recently been complaining about the somewhat opaque processing of last week's coupon, but that here the citizens' deputies only receive criticisms which, for example, imply that the state recognises a debt we have - we do not know from where - of EUR 1400 million with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Well, when you do this, if the Basque Country were to immediately spend the money, we would fail to meet the deficit target, ladies and gentlemen, nothing more than this. Obviously, this is a purely timely income for the beneficiary administration, which is not known where it comes from, but we believe that greater transparency in public finances is necessary. It is necessary to have rules of budgetary stability that apply everywhere equally because, in fact, the management of the Madrid City Council is quite questionable and regrettable, not only because it does not comply with the rule of expenditure, but because it does not comply with its investment commitments and, in fact, they end up spending on something else, as in a palace on Calle Alcalá 42, but it is true that this is not the most serious case. We have heard today, which was also said by the President of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority - I am concluding, Madam President - that in the Bilbao City Council, the autonomous community, which is the supervisory body, has authorised a deficit financial-economic plan, which is not allowed to any town hall. And, in fact, we find that we have a strengthened guardianship in Madrid with surplus derived from not executing investments fundamentally, while we do not have it in Bilbao when the city council has deficit and moreover, in passing, fails to comply with the rule of spending, and all this is not said by me, but by the President of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority. We believe that our budgetary stability rules need to be amended, modernised and better adapted to European standards, but this brings with it, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we cannot support it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre Díaz. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Marí Bosó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u104	Thank you, Madam President. [[The Lord]] Mrs Sumelzo, when I heard you, from this rostrum, speak harshly and point to the unprotection of the Government of the nation with the municipalities, I have remembered the 17 billion euros that the Andalusian Board has hung them to the Andalusian municipalities in terms of participation in the income of the autonomous community, and I have thought that this must be a great protection for the municipalities and local administrations. [[Applauds]] Because the first disloyalty with the local administrations is not to pay you the debts, Mrs. Sumelzo, and you have the strange mania that when you rule you do not pay the debts and leave them to the one who comes after you. [[Applauds]] Mrs Sumelzo, with respect, since the Socialist Group has returned to the mountain where Mrs Montero and her co-rapporteurs are stationed, it is being recurrent to bring to this House initiatives that return us to the wrong policies of uncontrolled public spending that resulted in the bankruptcy of all our territorial administrations in our country and that 3.5 million Spaniards had to go to the queues of unemployment. Every time we rule, the People's Party always has the same lines: the queue of unemployment, the queue of social eaters and the queue of suppliers before our public administrations; and it is every time the structural reforms that we deploy and the efforts of our fellow citizens that allow us to return to growth and employment generation. This is the case, Mrs Sumelzo, because this is what is proposed to us under the pretended indignation of this afternoon: wrong policies of uncontrolled public spending; if not, it is not understood that, while the Government has agreed with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces to proceed to study in the National Commission of Local Administration the adjustment of the rule of spending, you come here day after day to present initiatives to boost the negotiation. The rule of spending, Your Honor - Mrs Montero, also goes for you - is a rule of fiscal discipline of European governance, and its modification as well. Therefore, at Ecofin on 5 and 6 December 2016, it was agreed to study the adjustment of the rule, a study that has not been completed, and that is why this reference is made in the agreement of the National Commission of Local Administration, because that is the framework of the negotiation. On the other hand, it was also the misguided policies of uncontrolled public spending that brought all our public administrations into the excessive deficit protocol eight years ago. And listen carefully: It is the thousands of councillors, mayors and mayors of our country, the leaders of our autonomous communities and of the central government who are taking us out of the protocol in which they put us, thanks to their efforts and that of our fellow citizens. Therefore, Mrs Sumelzo, as she is about to leave the excessive deficit protocol, she should be careful and responsible and not send the wrong messages. In our country, the government of the nation has made the spending rule more flexible, because it allows to deduct from computable spending financially sustainable investments, and has also made it more flexible by allowing the remaining 2016 to be incorporated in the 2017 and 2018 financial years. But one thing is that and another thing is to return to the old socialist euphemisms of the criteria of sustainability of public accounts throughout the cycle or that the administrations present healthy accounts according to the cyclical position of our economy. Because this, Mrs Sumelzo, disguises in fact returning to the postulates of the reform that you made in 2006 in the Law on Stability, when we abandoned fiscal discipline and introduced greater margins that allowed greater public deficit. And you don't have to remember the rosary of the dawn in which it all ended. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of the exit from a very hard economic crisis, in which structural reforms in our administrations were essential, because the citizens, while striving to get out of a very hard economic crisis quickly, wanted to see that their administrations were also trying and the effort had to be made. To do this, we believe that we must continue to make the effort and we will continue to do it responsibly, and that is the responsibility that we also demand of them today. For this, we are even willing to go up to the mountain to look for them to agree on this issue that we are dealing with today and also to agree on a 2018 General Budget that will offer better solutions to our fellow citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Marí. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Sumelzo whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. We'll present a transactional with the Podemos Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u107	Thank you very much. We'll take that into account. - THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE DEMOCRATIC CRISIS OF THE FUNCTIONING OF JUSTICE IN SPAIN. [[Lord XUCLA]] [[File number 173/000066]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u108	We turn to the next item on the agenda, a motion after the Joint Parliamentary Group's inquiry into the democratic crisis in the functioning of justice in Spain. [[Mr. Xuclà]] For the author group of the initiative, Mr Xuclà and Costa have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an initiative that says no to Article 155, which says no to the cooperative of 155 of the PP, the PSOE and Citizens. A month ago today, when the Government of the Generalitat came into force, this is not the solution to a political dispute, to a political demand, which is not annulled, trying without success to erase a reality. What is this reality? The reality is an absolute vast majority of citizens of Catalonia who are in favour of the exercise of the right of self-determination of the Catalan nation. The reality is a majority... I'm not heavy, I'm a Democrat and I describe the will of citizens in the ballot box, which will be revalidated on December 21st. [[A Member of Parliament: How heavy!]] [[Applauds]] I'm not heavy, I represent half a million voters and I have the right, without you insulting me and telling me I'm heavy. I am a representative of citizens who have elected me democratically. He said that reality is an absolute majority of the Catalonian Parliament that set a line in the previous legislature and that I think he will also choose it in the next legislature. We say that the answer is democracy, always not its denial, and the trade union or the cooperative of 155 have tried to dissolve a government and a parliament outside of the capacities and powers of Article 155, as I could well illustrate in last week's inquiry, with the support provided for in the Constitution and in its Article 155 of the absolute majority of the Senate that the People's Party has with less than 30% of the popular vote, but this is what Article 155 provides for. It is also good that we vote for the affirmation of support or denial of this intervention by the Government of the Generalitat by Congress with another parliamentary representation resulting from a more proportional electoral system. Ladies and gentlemen, a cooperative of 155, cannot dissolve, cancel or cancel the will of 2.4 million Catalans and Catalans. Three weeks after the elections we have to tell you again that you respect, let us all respect, the result of the ballot box in political terms. In three weeks it will be necessary to make an adjusted political reading of the reality of the will of the citizens, not the option of the vice-president of the Senate, Mr Pedro Sanz or the candidate García Albiol, supporters of re-establishing article 155 if they do not like the result. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a hardcore political version of what I killed because it was mine. If you don't like the result you want to reapply Article 155, plus 155. Do you know what the result of the 155 application is? That the mantra that said that with a very high participation of more than 80% of the citizens, the sovereignist forces would not achieve victory on 21 December. The answer is political, the answer is not judicial. It is time to have a memory for the Government of the Generalitat, for the Vice-President and the Councillors now in prison, for the President and the Councillors free, free before Belgian justice, for the friends, for the Honourable Josep Rull, the Honourable Joaquim Forn, the Honourable Meritxell Borràs, the Honourable Jordi Turull. Ladies and gentlemen, the 155th club, why did they benefit from the application of Article 155? Not to stop the will of a people, who will return to manifest in the ballot boxes with free and secret ballot on 21 December. This can't stop him. You, with the comprehensive intervention of the Generalitat, have tried to put in rest mode, in stand by mode, the self-government of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, after a month of the intervention of the Government of the Generalitat, the majority of the citizens of Catalonia, vote for the party they vote for, they are well aware that there has been good management of different political parties during these thirty-seven years of self-government recovered. These thirty-seven years of recovered government come from a tradition of a hundred years of self-government, which start with the Mancommunitat of Catalonia and with a claim in the nineteenth century of political Catalanism and cultural Catalanism. Thirty-seven years of experience in the fields of education, health care, social services, public works, environmental protection, energy transition. Ladies and gentlemen, do you believe that after a month when the ministries are in charge of all these powers on 21 December, they are going to stop the will of the citizens to express themselves in a free and secret ballot? You, through the application of Article 155, have made very clear your great confusion: a political reality requires political dialogue and political responses. When a political reality is tried to impose a 155 thinking that they are going to cancel it, the result is that in three weeks' time the citizens will freely manifest themselves in the ballot box. Meanwhile, so many initiatives in these fields of education, health care, social services, public works have not been managed or promoted because, simply, ministries have left them at stand by, at rest. I end by asking them to vote for the re-establishment of the Government of the Generalitat, to deal with this 155. Do you know what is the great legacy of Article 155, of the work of the Government, of the administration of the People's Party over the Generalitat of Catalonia? That the Minister of Culture and alleged Councillor of Culture of the Generalitat of Catalonia has ordered the transfer to Aragon of the works of Sijena. [[Applauds]] If this is the great work of the Government of the intervention of article 155, what a mistake. I call for the vote of the whole House, I call for the vote of the progressives of the Socialist Party to repudiate this Article 155, to restore full democracy and full self-government. This concludes, Mr. President. If it seems to any honourable Member that I am upset, on 21 December we will once again express our strong democratic will in the ballot box. Thank you very much and apologize for the democratic inconveniences. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u111	Thank you very much, President. We are presented by the Democratic Party with a motion calling for structural reforms to guarantee the independence of the governing bodies of the judiciary and the autonomy of the prosecutor's office, and for the repeal of the royal decrees adopted pursuant to the measures authorized by the Senate with respect to the Government of Catalonia and pursuant to article 155 of the Constitution. Real decrees that, as we know, provided for the cessation of the president and members of the government and correlative replacement, the suppression of some organs and delegations of the Generalitat and the dissolution of the Parliament, and the convening of elections. Ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of consistency with what the Basque Nationalist Party has said and supported throughout this time with regard to the so-called Catalan question, I should like to tell you that we will support the motion. This motion allows me to bring to the debate some phrases that last Sunday reminded us of the president of the Basque Nationalist Party at the event that we celebrated annually in memory of the founder of our party, already one hundred twenty-two years ago, in 1895. Listen to these phrases to see if they sound close to you. First: If the President of the Council of Ministers believes that our status does not represent the vast majority of the Catalan opinion, that he consents to the consultation of the opinion of Catalonia and then we will be convinced whether or not the public opinion is on our side. It is therefore a matter of sovereignty. Second sentence: Catalonia is going to cast its vote, it is going to express its will by telling us how it wants to be organized in the future and how it wants to be united with Spain in the future and that constitutionally cannot be done. What value would the vote in Catalonia have in a matter that affects the fundamental political organization of the country, of Spain? And, third, Catalonia's pretensions seem fair to us. The attitude of the Catalans towards the obstinate negative is considered justified and that does not mean that we approve or disapprove of each and every one of the acts carried out in Catalonia, but we will point out that every people who stands up to claim and acquire that freedom that they consider indispensable to their own lives has our full sympathy and support. All these phrases are not, as one might think, of 2016 or 2017 but are of 1919 and pronounced in this same House, in this same Congress of Deputies. They were pronounced by the deputy Pi i Sunyer, of the Catalan Republic; by the deputy Andrade, of the conservative group and by the deputy Epalza of the PNV in this same Congress and a hundred years ago. Those who were here said the same thing that is now said and from the same political sensibilities that are now also represented. Ladies and gentlemen, after reading and listening to these sentences delivered a hundred years ago, we are not, as we have heard in recent years and days, in the face of passing fashions with regard to Catalan and Basque national sensitivities. We are, on the contrary, faced with deep feelings that are not satisfied in their freedom to claim their own life and we are also faced with a political problem with deep social roots that we must not and cannot wait another hundred years to resolve. Its solution is through dialogue, negotiation and agreement and, in our view, the solution is not through judicialization of politics, imprisonment or exceptional situations. We must all be prepared to engage in dialogue without imposition and without veto. At the last sitting in this House it was shown that dialogue and the pact between different people are possible. Our hand is still stretched out. The Basque Nationalist Party is going to put everything within its power so that dialogue can find a path that leads to agreements. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u113	Ladies and gentlemen of 155, you did not blush when you heard the massive and fascist cry of 'A for them'; it is more, the more Catalanophobia, the better, and the more far-right raised up arm, the better, because you would have it easier to achieve your goal. In other words, that the effect should be achieved without notice of care: democratic government in prison, democratic government in exile, freedoms curtailed from towing police corruption, calling for elections usurping competences and functions, i.e. prostitution of laws, and profiteering by preventing independence candidates from acting during the electoral campaign on equal terms. But why did they have to blush? If the script was written in advance, it responded to one objective: we must cut Catalonia because, if not, they will get away with it. In other words - and forgive me, Mr President, because I have to use the words of a citizen here in Neptune Square textually: Stop touching the balls, Catalans! This was the expression that a citizen told me, and I suppose he was saying it with all the feeling of the world, because for you, Members of Parliament from 155, this is to touch the noses, this is what you consider to represent the democratic will of the people of Catalonia: bad people, people who have historically touched the noses, who are touching them and who will continue to touch them if we do not tackle the problem. This is their political mentality, which explains why they despised the democratic path, the Scottish paradigm, in the face of the Catalan demand and opted for the authoritarian path: judicialization, fines, embargoes and imprisonment. Then what are they boasting about? They cannot boast of modernity, nor can they boast of the Spanish Constitution when we are living the most restrictive moment of the interpretation of the constitutional text. If the judges of the first Constitutional Court lifted their heads, they would be ashamed. Moreover, you are taking advantage of this crisis - a crisis that has increased - to re-centralize, to take over, to energize the composite state. If not, what is the reason for the attack on the Catalan educational model, what is the reason for the attack on TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio, what is the reason for the attack on the Mossos d'Esquadra? In fact, they cannot boast of anything, nor can they only boast of the Head of State, this Head of State who will do good to his father - who swore the fundamental principles of the Movement - who has acted in part, who did not even have the honesty to mention in his televised speech to the Catalan citizens retaliated on 1 October. What are you gonna brag about? Are you going to brag about the judicial system? But if the European Council has indicated that the Kingdom of Spain is the least successful in the fight against the politicisation of justice! Can they boast of pursuing the common good? But if the application of 155 has punished all Catalan citizens! The Independenceists? Of course, but also the Catalan citizens who vote for you. You know that, for example, guaranteed income to citizens has not been implemented, or that allocations to the third sector have been stopped. Then what can they boast of? But, in spite of everything, let them be clear that we will see each other in the polls because the process of building the Republic of Catalonia, once we have declared independence on 27 September, has two axioms. One, the process of building the republic will be peaceful or will not be; another, the process of building the republic will be democratic or will not be. If we win the elections - and we believe we are in a position to win them because we are persevering - you know that we will do everything we can to make you abandon the authoritarian path, the authoritarian path and go to the path of democracy, to the path of negotiation, to the path of finding a scenario in which the need to bilaterally agree on this reality is recognized. There are three ideas that we will not forget and that are dedicated to the Socialist Party, three ideas that we will not forget. First, without his complicity, 155 would not have been possible. Secondly, without its complicity, it would not have been possible to abolish Catalan autonomy, that is, intervention. Third: without their complicity there would have been no imprisonment. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u114	Mr. Tardà, just a moment, please. Please do not interrupt the speaker. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u115	I appreciate it because it gives me the opportunity to repeat it. Without its complicity it would not have been possible to implement the 155, without its complicity it would not have been possible to intervene by the Generalitat of Catalonia, without its complicity it would not have been possible to imprison our Government. [[Applauds]] Finally, to top it all off, they are even urging - which we will never understand - the Central Electoral Board to ban this bond of solidarity and they have succeeded. Never, never would have thought they'd be more fair than them. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u116	Wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down and do not be questioned while the speaker is speaking. The Rules of Procedure have mechanisms if you want to ask for the floor but, of course, I will not consent to it being debated or in dialogue with the speaker while he is speaking, whoever he is. Mr Villegas Pérez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u117	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presented with a motion to eliminate 155, but I believe that there is a lack of data to be able to properly contextualize this motion - since it has not been mentioned here yet, but what is to be said in order to be able, I insist, to understand the whole context - and that is that those who present this motion are coupsmen. [[Applauds]] That has not been said and I think it is good that we are all clear. They are coupsmen because they have perpetrated a coup against democracy on my land, in Catalonia. They have tried to do so and they have been held back, among other things, from the implementation of the Constitution; they have attempted a blow to democracy that is being very expensive to us Catalans and all Spaniards. Your coup has led to a flight of companies; more than 2500 companies, including the largest, have left Catalonia, thanks to you, gentlemen of Convergence and gentlemen of Esquerra; more than 1000 companies have changed their tax domicile and will pay taxes outside Catalonia, thanks to you, gentlemen of Convergence and gentlemen of Esquerra. In addition, it has meant a drop in business activity, between four tenths and one point of GDP is estimated. We will be between 3300 and 14 billion poorer thanks to you, Mr de Convergence and Mr de Esquerra. Tourism, invoicing, down 20%. Retail trade, the worst figures in the last four years, with a drop of more than 4% in one month. What did all this lead us to? A further unemployment, an increase in unemployment by 14,700 unemployed, the largest increase in the last nine years. Thank you, gentlemen of Convergence; thank you, gentlemen of Esquerra, for your blow. You, after all this, after breaking Catalonia, gentlemen of Convergence and gentlemen of Esquerra, would have to come here to ask for forgiveness, you would have to come here to ask for forgiveness from the Catalans and all the Spanish! [[Applauds]] But no, they have the defiance of coming here to give lessons of constitutionalism, as Mr Xuclà tried in his regrettable intervention of the interpellation, and come here also to ask the Spanish democracy to disarm, to kneel in front of the coups, to not react, to repeal article 155, which is the weapon provided for by the Constitution against this type of action. Well, Mr Xuclà, Spanish democracy does not kneel in front of those who want to break it; Mr Xuclà, we will not kneel. The Spanish democracy defends itself, the judges defend it by applying the law, indeed; the Courts, this House and the Senate defend it, who are representatives of popular sovereignty, applying the Constitution; we defend it by the Catalan citizens going out to the streets to defend our rights, to say that we are Catalan, that we are Spanish and that we are European, and we will also defend it, Mr Xuclà, the Catalan citizens coming massively - indeed - on 21 December to the polls, to fill them with democracy and to put them where they deserve: in the corner of thinking about democracy, which is the opposition, we will send them to the opposition at last!, and a new democratic stage will open up in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] But it is that, moreover, you have the defachability to put a point - I don't know why - in this motion to talk about the independence of the judiciary. You, in your one-time Transitional Act, section 66.4, provide that the President of the High Court of the Catalan Non-Nata Republic shall be appointed by the President of the same Republic directly. You have the defiance to speak of independence from the judiciary. Come on, gentlemen, don't take any more of our hairs, please! I hope this motion will be rejected. I suppose they will count on the complicity of Podemos - as always -, always attentive to help the separatists, those who want to break Spain. I don't know if they'll count on the ambiguity of Pedro Sánchez and the Socialist Party this time, today I don't know if he touches face or cross, I guess we'll see him later. [[Applauds]] But I suppose they are very clear that from Citizens they cannot expect neither complicity nor ambiguity; Citizens will stand firm to defend our democracy, we will defend this democracy and we will defend this common project of many citizens called Spain. Thank you very much, Members. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Villegas. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Moya Matas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, good afternoon. Mr Xuclà, companies of the PDECAT, today we agree with you - and I do not say this because of the taste or aesthetics of the electoral posters, which we have also seen that we agree because you have practically plagiarismed the sign that made In Comú Puerman by winning the elections in Catalonia on a couple of occasions - in your postulates, in your diagnosis, in the lack of independence of the judiciary and in the lack of autonomy of the prosecution. [[Applauds]] We do not agree with Convergence i Unió when in 2014 it was precisely without a voice in the General Council of the Judiciary, when Mrs Pigem had to resign for her problems in Andorra; and we also do not agree with you when on so many occasions you have used the prosecutor's office to suppress social movements and political expressions of repression, of dissent, against what was the Government of Convergence i Unió in Catalonia. However, I insist, we agree. We agree to note the lack of independence of the judiciary. We agree that this is a very serious democratic deficit in the Spanish State. We agree that this should call upon all and all who are present here today, and not just call upon them because this lack of independence has led for the first time to reproach in democracy the currently absent Catalan minister, because of this distrust of citizenship, only one out of every three citizens of the Spanish State trust that justice is something impartial - only one out of every three - but because this lack of independence is questioned and denounced by international bodies such as the OECD and the Greek that place us in the third state of the European Union in distrust and at international level, according to the World Economic Forum, up to Botswana. We agree that this is worrying but, above all, because if we assume that we are in a rule of law, what is unthinkable is that the guarantor of this rule of law is dependent and is absolutely linked to the plans of the executive branch; so we agree. The judiciary, as many authors claim, is a power that did not have a democratic transition like the other powers of the State. The judiciary has been constantly patched up throughout the different governments that have had Spanish democracy, which have had no problem and no respite in instrumentalizing it according to its political designs at every moment, adding the judiciary to the pit of contempt and mistrust in which it finds itself today. Perhaps the most scandalous of these attacks was, above all, the one perpetrated in 2013 by Minister Gallardón, that reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, during the absolute majority of the People's Party, which established a government of judges, clearly presidential, where minorities were marginalized, where this gender inequality, that virtually impossible gender parity, was perpetuated, and also lost all hint of transparency and democratic functioning in the Judiciary. We also agree with the concern for the prosecution, that prosecutor's office whose public prosecutor is directly appointed by the executive without possible parliamentary control more than that procedure in which the Commission of Justice presents itself to those who are undoubtedly to be appointed as public prosecutor's office which, rather than a question of suitability, is a simple step forward, a simple presentation in society. And we have seen it with the late prosecutor Maza, also repudiated by this House for his actions and maneuvers, giving impunity to the cases of corruption of the People's Party and also being a genuine political instrument of the repression of Catalonia. We fervently hope that your successor, probably Judge Sánchez Melgar, will not act in the same continuum as Mr. Maza, although - and call us informed optimists - it seems that the line is going to be that. So without addressing these two serious democratic deficits, without achieving genuine independence from the judiciary and genuine autonomy from the prosecutor's office, I tell you from here that we are not going to be accomplices to a subcommittee where we intend to establish a justice strategy in which, without addressing these two cases, it would simply be a makeup operation. We're not gonna be accomplices. However, we are not going to stand idly by. We have tabled a proposal for a reform of the Statute of the Prosecutor's Office and also a legislative proposal to repeal the Gallardon reform, so we are going to be proactive. Finally, of course, we also agree to demand and defend the repeal of all measures based on Article 155. In fact, article 155 is a new repression by the Government against the legitimate institutions of Catalonia, which had already been implemented since before its adoption.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u120	Stop it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u121	I'm done, Mr. President. Remember that in September the Government already intervened in the finances of the Government of Catalonia and the Government also tried to re-centralize the Mossos d'Esquadra. So in this 155 it is actually intended to read what it does not say, dissolving the Parliament of Catalonia and calling for elections. We understand that it is an interested application of 155 and we are absolutely in favour of this repeal and of the recovery of the legitimate Government of Catalonia. I'm done. We are, of course, going to oppose this article 155, not only for its application in Catalonia, but also for how it is spreading, as a clear threat to all the autonomous and local governments, as we see in the Madrid City Council, whose policies differ from the political line of the government party.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u122	Mr. Moya, you have to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u123	I conclude, Mr President, by denouncing the deep democratic deficits of the Spanish state and strongly wishing it to be a democratic state governed by law and not a despotic and authoritarian state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u124	Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u125	Mr. Tardà, you just complimented me on calling me a fairy. Serrat was also called a facha. [[applause.-Pronounce words in Catalan]] Mrs Batet was told: I hope that the Socialists will end up disappearing from our country because the Socialists will persevere to the end so that this division, this confrontation that you and you have provoked, dissolves and we will have the social cohesion that we have had again. [[pointing to the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra and the Joint Parliamentary Group PDeCAT]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT, the motion you are tabling seems to me to be a real misunderstanding and I am forgiving. Are you telling me that you made an inquiry and a motion just to get the holder of the PSC, who had voted against the 155, who had voted against a motion seeking a derogation? I mean, do they use an inquiry and a motion for that? Do you want the headline? Well, it seems indecent to me. That's short-shipping, gentlemen of the PDECAT. Do you think the Socialists are going to be afraid of this motion, this headline? They're very wrong. Socialists are worried about having a project, which we have. That's our concern. The short regattas, gentlemen of the PDECAT, we leave them to you and to the lords of Citizens, who are experts for that. [[Applauds]] They're talking about dignity. What dignity do you speak of, of which we lost all Catalan citizenship on 6 and 7 September when you, lords of the PDECAT and Esquerra, dynamite the legality of Catalonia, the Catalan institutions and hence the Constitution? Parliament's Rules of Procedure and counsel's reports were skipped, the Council of State Guarantees was ignored and the Statute of Autonomy was dynamite. Is that the dignity you claim? [[Applauds]] They took the voice away from the opposition, and that's indecent. You have caused profound damage to civil society, to civil unity, and have impoverished the economy. Today, Airef's data were clear: 40% of Catalan GDP has decided to move its headquarters away from Catalonia. They have badly damaged the image of Catalonia and also Spain. I am referring to your creditworthiness and credibility, and we were only now missing Mr Puigdemont by proposing a referendum on separating himself from Europe. But let's see, how many more events are we going to have? We have been warning you of the risks since the beginning of your process - your process - especially when you approved that declaration of sovereignty in 2013, and you have no case. We have been the victims of the persistent patriotic sophasia of your Government, because they have ruled for you, not for all Catalans. They have sold that the republic was a fact, that the institutions were prepared, that from there to Ithaca there was a step, that the referendum was to unite Catalans and Catalans, that independence would make us more prosperous, that Europe was waiting for us with open arms. That's what they've been selling. It's not that they haven't given one, it's that they've lied, they've lied. [[Applauds]] Today, gentlemen of the PDECAT, they present an indecent motion and today the citizenry is stunned by their change of story. Now it turns out that we were not prepared, that they were not aware of the difficulties, that proclaiming independence and the Catalan republic was a symbolic act. It seems that today Mr. Tardà said no, that we declared it, that there was no such thing as that, come on! Or worse, that the unilateral way has been an invention of the state, as Mrs Rovira said yesterday. Come on, not perplexity, outrage. They employ more than five million people, the two million who voted for them and the rest of them. You, gentlemen of the PDECAT and Esquerra, have lied to us. You must think citizenship is stupid, but it isn't. This is unacceptable. They're irresponsible. This motion does not live up to either form or background. Gentlemen of the PDECAT, I ask you to listen to me, because you have to answer a question. I don't know if they're questioning the division of powers. I do not know if questioning the division of powers are insinuating that the Palau case, which implies the alleged illegal financing of Convergence, is delayed because the Catalan Government of Convergence had influence in the judiciary and hence there is no sentence yet. I hope that's not what you're implying when you question the division of powers. Or worse still, with his law of legal transition, the president of the Generalitat appoints the president of the Catalan Supreme Court. I hope that's not the example you want to set. I'm finishing up. You are calling for the repeal of Article 155 with little legislative rigour, but we are certainly talking about politics. On the 21st its effects will be completely abolished, because the Catalan institutions will again recover. Let us now speak of the dignity that we lost millions of Catalans on 6 and 7 September by a check that was made to self-government by you who ruled. You let yourselves be dragged by the lords of Esquerra. The gentlemen of Esquerra are doing very well, but you have been swept away; you are going to disappear. The Socialists will not fail in our efforts to regain social cohesion, to make an inclusive project and to define a project that you have not yet defined; a project with clear rules, sufficient resources, representativeness and recognition of the territories and citizens. And when I speak of recognition, I don't speak of Catalonia alone; I speak of Extremadura, Galicia, Ceuta and Melilla or Valencia; I speak of recognition of territories and citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u126	Your Honor, you have to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u127	I'm finishing up, President. We Socialists invite them to be honest and urge them to enter the debate and study within the Territorial Commission, a courageous and loyal debate that will allow us to build a collective project. You speak of dignity, but I will tell you that Catalans and Catalans feel dignity and recognition when the presidents of the Generalitat were Pascual Maragall and José Montilla, who were the presidents of all. We won't say the same about Puigdemont. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u128	For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Sánchez Camacho Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about two issues that are very important challenges that are going to worry us in the coming years: populism and nationalism. We have just listened to the representative of Podemos and the representative of the PDECAT and I must ask the two of you to stop delegitimizing the institutions of our country, of our rule of law, which are worthy, which are legal, which are constitutionally recognized and which do not deserve what you are saying about them. [[Applauds]] They have spoken here of an expired justice. You should know that more than 60% of the judges there are at the moment are women judges. It's not an expired justice. You have spoken of it as a non-independent justice. On the contrary, all international bodies, the European Union and all associations of judges and prosecutors say that it is independent and that we have a guarantee system, independent and professional. But is it that, moreover, Mr. Xuclà, you will come to give us an example of the model of justice, when in your law of legal transition you say, in article 66.4, that the president of the Supreme Court chooses it the president of the Generalitat? On the proposal of a Joint Commission, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know who this Joint Commission is? In this case, it is formed by the President of the Supreme Court, who chooses the President of the Government, four members who choose this President, plus the Councillor of Justice and four persons who say the Councillor of Justice. Come on, the most absolute independence for the Executive and for the Legislature to be united. [[Applauds]] But they say more, ladies and gentlemen. Article 79.4 states that all proceedings against persons who have fought for the democratic independence of Catalonia shall be dismissed or dismissed. That's what they say. Well, look, no, there's not going to be amnesty here, there's not going to be impunity and there's not going to be an end to it. You know why? Because justice is the same for all, for Mr Mas, for the gentlemen of the Government of the Generalitat, for the gentlemen of the Bureau and for all the Spanish citizens of this country; it is the same for all. [[Applauds]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, you come to talk to us here, you who have presented the greatest challenge to coexistence in these forty years, the greatest blow to law and law in these forty years, the application of the material scope of 155 and the academic and intellectual debate. He hasn't done it today, he's come to campaign today; today he's just talking about 155 no, today he's forgotten, because you weren't interested. Well, I'll tell you that the deputies in the Parliament of Catalonia couldn't do that. You know why? Because Parliament was closed for a long time, and when it opened, do you know what happened?, that you admitted to dealing with bills - two - that were clearly unconstitutional, contrary to the lawyer's report, contrary to the secretary-general's report and published it through the back door members of the Bureau in the House's bulletin. Moreover, they did not have the right to submit allegations and amendments to the whole, trampling on the rights of the Members we represent millions of people in Catalonia and we are the opposition. Those days, the days of shame, days 6 and 7, will pass into history as your model of democracy, yours, when you do what you want. That's not democracy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] But it is also, ladies and gentlemen, that you are telling us that 155 is an abuse of power, an abuse of Catalonia. You know what I tell you? 155 is being a guarantee against the abuse that you made of the Catalan institutions to the detriment of all Catalans. 155 has not suspended Catalonia's autonomy but has strengthened and consolidated it. [[Rumors]] That's what you would have wanted - yes, yes, hands up - but it's gone wrong, like almost everything. It has gone wrong with Europe, which has not recognized them; it has gone wrong with the companies, which have gone away; it has gone wrong for 155 to be that threat that you have posed, because 155 has been a democratic decision, by the absolute majority of the Senate and, moreover, it is being very positive in the implementation this month. Do you know what we're looking at in the application of that 155? That much of the management policies, social policies in Catalonia were paralysed. This week, juvenile issues are going to disembark. You were dedicating the money to other things, to those embassies, to that diplomat. All that money went for their machinery of the independence structure, not for the schools, not for the social structures or for the social guarantees of the Catalans. That's what you guys did. [[Applauds]] But I want to tell you more, ladies and gentlemen. Today, 2000 places have been taken out for children's education teachers in Catalonia. A total of 17 billion have been paid, in this month of 155, for invoices and suppliers. [[Rumors]] Don't bother them with the truth; if they're democrats. Or are they democrats for you? Don't bother them with the truth. I'll tell you more about this, one more last. You speak of the fact that the judicial decision has to take place in the courts and politics in politics, or does everything have to be resolved in the judicial sphere? For today by the Forcadell doctrine, Mr. Junqueras, Mr. Turull and Mr. Rull say they comply with 155. There they say one thing and here they say another. You've fooled everyone. The separatist process has been the process of deception. They tricked us when they said 'Spain steals us'. Lie. They cheated when they said we were going to stay in Europe; no European government or institution has recognized them. We were fooled when they said it wasn't going to affect the economy, and we have a huge drop in investment, a 30% drop in retail sales, and more than 2770 companies have gone away. Do you know how many Ibex companies we have of the seven that we had in Catalonia that you have been so careful over these years? One. One of those seven, and we have only twenty companies in Catalonia that make more than 1 billion. Are you going to apologize to the millions of Catalans who are going to see their work, in their day-to-day, damaged by the unemployment that is going to occur and, above all, by the fall in sales in their self-employed businesses, in the tourism sector and in minority trade? That's what they should do: apologize to Catalonia and all Catalans. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u130	Mrs Sánchez-Camacho, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u131	I'm finishing up, Madam President. But they must also apologize for having divided families, because their process has been destructive, disruptive and confrontational. They talk about democracy, when what they want is to crush the rights of half the Catalans we don't think like you. That's his democracy. They defend democracy by trampling on the rights of the opposition and the voice of the opposition in the Parliament of Catalonia, and they love freedom and democracy when there are squabbles in Catalonia, there are threats, there are coercions to councillors, journalists, judges... I have never heard them. It has happened to me on many occasions and I have never listened to them. Was he not entitled to be condemned by you, or is it that you only condemn what interests you? Democracy is to guarantee the freedoms of all, not just your own. [[Applauds]] What I'm going to tell you is that we have an opportunity, because you have been opportunistic when you come here to bring this motion today; we have an opportunity for a new Catalonia; not as you want, on the arm of the UPC, the most intolerant, the most anti-system, the most radical, no, no, a new Catalonia, where children are not indoctrinated, where everyone's freedoms are guaranteed, where we can live together and, in the face of the suffering of millions of Catalans, we can start a new stage, a stage of reconciliation, a stage to close wounds and a stage that can leave you in opposition. That's what I hope and that's what I want for Catalonia. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u132	Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u133	Madam President, I invoke the presidency's amparo by citing Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, because there have been allusions and judgments of value about people during this debate and specifically...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Xuclà, you have a minute to say what the allusion was.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u135	Thank you. Mr Villegas has accused my colleagues in the Democratic Party and myself of beatings, and in these forty years of democracy in this room there have been only some beatings, who entered this Chamber, who shot, who kidnapped Parliament and who kidnapped the Government. We are democratically elected representatives of the citizens and deserve the respect and parliamentary consideration of Mr Villegas. And I want to make a second consideration for the Journal of Sessions. Mr Villegas repeatedly refers to me and my colleagues as members of Convergence. We are members of the Democratic Party, PDECAT...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u136	Your Honor, that has nothing to do with the allusion you asked me to make. It's past his minute. Mr Villegas, you also have a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u137	Your Honor, Spanish democracy has been in danger twice, indeed in grave danger, with the coup on 23 February by Mr Tejero and with the coup against democracy that has been attempted in Catalonia and, therefore, I will not withdraw any of the terms I have used in my speech. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America, on the serious need for measures by the Government to ensure effective access to culture. [[File number 173/000067]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u138	We continue with the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the serious lack of action by the Government to ensure effective access to culture. For the author group of the initiative, Mrs García Sempere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u139	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First and foremost, before we enter fully into the motion on the establishment of guarantees for effective access to culture, we would like not to miss the opportunity to reject from the ground up Mr Montoro's umpteenth attack on culture, via VAT and its creative interpretation, putting a dogmatic, anti-social measure that leaves on the loose important cultural initiatives and also - let us not forget - the many workers in the cultural sector, who see how it will endanger the continuity of their projects and their lives. And it is that in the culture of this country one sees things that would not be believed: to claim the VAT of aid granted to cultural projects retroactively and to do so in addition when it has been approved in this same House, on 9 November of the same month, a law of contracts of the public sector that goes in exactly the opposite line. Let us hope - from our group at least we hope - that this does not mean that important cultural projects in this country will be lost in time as tears in the rain. We, as I said, will continue to work so that this does not happen. I now come to the subject of the motion and the question to the Minister of Culture, who I fear very much has better things to do. 80% of our territory is rural and in cities only a small part belongs to what we call the centre. That is, the peripheries of our big cities and, mainly, the vast rural spaces of our country are the places where we find most of our cultural heritage, in addition to an obvious interest in culture and conditions that could be optimal for its flowering. However, what we also find is that, beyond anecdotal proposals and photos, there is no sustainable cultural strategy in time that allows, among other objectives, to stop the worrying depopulation that we suffer or resist in the urban areas themselves to the commercialization of leisure that bring us the globalized cultural models and to facilitate spaces of creation to the creative people, that is, a real access to culture as a basic right. With this motion that we bring from the Confederal Group we intend to establish pillars to guarantee this right to access to the culture contemplated in our Constitution, but... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u140	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Please, be quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u141	... but that it has been systematically breached by the various governments for decades. First, we understand that the creation of a ministry of culture is a fundamental measure. And it is essential because we must devote ourselves entirely to culture and not conceive of it as an appendix to education and sport and because we do not want what happened last week to happen: let the minister come, look at the ceiling and say that it has nothing to do with one of his multiple personalities because he came as a minister of something else. We want a minister of culture who, of course, absolutely and scrupulously respects the autonomous powers, who has the commitment to promote what he must promote and who commits himself, above all budgetaryly, to what he has to do with all his powers, without grabbing any more but without ceasing to exercise those that he has. Our proposal is that this ministry not only dignifies our gaze on culture, but also, in concrete terms, takes over the management of the so-called 1.5% cultural community, which, in addition to not being fulfilled, suffers serious deficiencies in its management, as I raised last week, especially by the Ministry of Development, and that is that it is not only a matter of dealing with works or infrastructures, that also, but, as the Heritage Law itself contains, it is necessary to deal with artistic creativity and that will be better understood and more sensitive from a ministry of culture. What else do we need? A classic, that is to say, to talk about the financing of culture, which is a classic in this House and outside it. In addition to the fact that Mr Montoro stops using VAT to drown the sector, we believe that the establishment of a land for cultural financing is essential. This funding ground must cover at least two fundamental issues: the territorial specificity - beyond Catalonia or the federations - of the highly depopulated, remote or high mountain areas - which the European Union itself recommends, to which we only listen for some things - and also the territories with a high degree of social exclusion. We must ensure a sufficient budget line and comply with the Heritage Act, but this can only be done if we have sufficient budgets and it is ensured that they are implemented from the Ministry of Culture. We can address things that we have already agreed and that are already approved, such as ensuring Internet coverage for 100% of households, meeting the objectives of the European Union's digital agenda for 2020. We've approved it, they hit the chest with this measure, but the reality is that there's still no coverage at 100 percent. We proposed it, brought it to this House and surprisingly voted against the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Let's hope to be more successful now. Secondly, a percentage of the exhibition of works subsidized by the Ministry of Culture on cultural circuits in the rural world and in areas particularly vulnerable to social exclusion. If they really want to spread the culture we support and if they believe that the sense of financing must reverse citizenship, it is mandatory to care for the most sensitive groups and territories. That is what any government should do. I won't insist again. It is not about anecdotes, it is not about bringing some work to a remote area, it is about ensuring stable and permanent circuits. By finishing up, what more do we need? We need resources to keep creative youth, especially the creative youth of rural areas and excluded neighbourhoods, because there is creative and creative youth, they just have to go out on the street to see it, but the problem is that it cannot be developed in all its splendor, it cannot be maintained in time and, of course, it will never be able to live from its creations because it has no resources. We understand that it must be a fundamental line of this motion. We propose in this motion that, together with autonomous communities and local entities, they take responsibility for the financing of cultural initiatives generated by small organizations in territories whose population has high levels of social vulnerability, as well as areas at high risk of depopulation. We are talking about direct support for organizations that need equipment and inputs. Finally, because I am running out of time, it is necessary to provide resources to the Spanish Museums Network. Here I hope that they will not come out again with the powers, especially the gentlemen of the People's Party. This network was created precisely to enable administrations at different territorial levels - state, autonomous and local - to work in cooperation to facilitate access to culture in the most equal way possible. We're not inventing anything, it's in the law; we're just asking it to be enforced. We said it and repeated it, culture cannot be a photo or an ornament that is added, it must be a matter of state and a basic constitutional right. To this end, it must first be accessible to the most unprotected groups. Last week I ended up appealing to La Barraca Lorquiana and the next day someone who had listened to us sent us the speech of Federico García Lorca inaugurating the public library of his people, in Fuente Vaqueros, Granada, and with his words I say goodbye, because they collect much better than I the sense of the motion: Many times a people sleeps like the water of a pond a day without wind, and a book or books can shake him and disturb him and show him new horizons of overcoming and concord. Let's look for those horizons. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u142	For the defence of the amendments tabled by your groups, Mr Miquel i Valentí is speaking on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u143	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, President. Please note that I thought that we would also agree on this issue, because it was an initiative that advocated effective access to culture. We thought we could only say yes and vote affirmatively. In fact, my party, in its history of government in the Generalitat de Catalunya, has a long experience in ensuring effective access to culture between young people and social groups at risk of social exclusion. Examples of this are Scene 25 or Appropa Cultura. But when you read your initiative, ladies and gentlemen, you realize that it is an excessively Jacobin proposal, because in the end they talk about creating a ministry of culture, obviating that the cultural competences of the communities have them and obviating, among other things, that the Generalitat of Catalonia has extensive experience in the management of cultural competences. That is why we are submitting an amendment, asking that the 1.5% that you are asking to run the supposed ministry of culture that you want to create the management of the Generalitat of Catalonia. You present us with a compromise to that text in which you insist on creating a ministry of culture to distribute 1.5%. We cannot accept this, among other things, because when the exclusive subjects of culture are distributed to the autonomous communities, especially in some with a long history in the management of cultural matter, we put many things at risk. We always say the same thing, when we open the door for this Government and this parliamentary group, with the help of other parliamentary groups, to manage competences that are now transferred to the autonomous communities, we systematically put the competences in those autonomous communities at risk. That's why we can't accept it. But we cannot accept it for anything else. Have you seen this government's service sheet on cultural matters? Do you want a minister or a minister in this government to think only of issues that affect the cultural sector of this country? If we reviewed the Government's service sheet, I would say that what is less appropriate to us is that the Government should think more about cultural matters, it should focus on other things. If what we want is to preserve the cultural sector of this country, what should be done is to distract them so that they don't think much about culture. We have seen how they have approached cultural sectors, such as the film sector, from a sectarian perspective; we have seen how they have done a mismanagement by now asking institutions, museums and private entities to return VAT because the Ministry of Finance has decided to interpret differently something that had been interpreting these years differently. I therefore ask you not to give this Government any more opportunities to devote a single minute to thinking about cultural matters, because the less this Government thinks about cultural matters, the more the cultural sector in this country will gain. I did not want to end this intervention without referring to two facts which are extremely serious. One directly affects Catalans, and that is that the legitimate cultural adviser is in Brussels and this, of course, puts us in a complicated situation. The other is the events of the last few hours, which oblige me to highlight the lack of sensitivity of this Government, which wants to authorize the transfer of works found in the Museu de Lleida and the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya to Sijena, not only putting at risk the unit of collection in these museums, but also the integrity of these pieces, which are now in optimal conditions of preservation in their respective museums. That is why we cannot accept your compromise proposal, and we will abstain in the vote, because we believe it is a very serious mistake to release this Government so that it can work even more in cultural matters, seeing how day after day, month after month, year after year the cultural sector of this country is dynamic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u144	Mr Torres Mora has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group will vote in favour of the motion just defended by Mrs García Sempere. We have tabled an amendment in which we propose to change the expression to create a ministry of culture in order to recover the Ministry of Culture. It is a small amendment, it is a change of word, but for us it is an important amendment, because the truth is that there was already a Ministry of Culture in our country; in fact, whenever there has been a socialist president there has been a Minister of Culture. If his lordship and his group had wanted it, we would now have a socialist president and, therefore, a minister of culture. [[Applauds]] In addition, Mrs. García Sempere, both in her speech last Tuesday and in the explanatory statement of the motion - which we will support, in a summary and in a pen, cancel the differences in cultural policies between the Socialist Party and the People's Party. We must be very far from the earth, let us put it on the moon, in order not to differentiate between a minister like Jorge Semprún and a minister like Esperanza Aguirre or between a minister of culture like Jordi Solé Tura and a minister of culture like Mr Montoro. [[Applauds]] It is very difficult and it is necessary to be very far away in order not to distinguish between one and another minister of culture. I beg you not to bother, but understand that if we let this situation stand, we would be very disloyal to all those who have worked to make progressive policies in defense of creators and democratization of access to culture. That is why, because it is an objective for which generations of socialists have worked, it gave me great joy when I saw this interpellation to the minister; an interpellation to expand access and equality in access to culture. But the truth is that both the minister and the problem escaped him in the interpellation; you dispersed the criticism instead of concentrating it and along that path the minister went away. You were able to choose, for example, a cultural consumption: the book, reading. You were able to go to the latest CIS post-electoral survey that interviewed 6,000 people and asked them how many books they had read the previous year. And you would have found that 45% of our population responded that none, which had not read any. You were able to tell the minister that according to that survey the Spanish read on average four books a year, the Spanish five. But the average is deceptive. In populations of less than 10,000 people read three and in populations of more than 400,000 read six books a year. But it is not the size of the population, but the social class and educational level that really determines inequality in a practice as elementary in access to culture as it is to read books. The manual workers read an average of two books a year; the upper classes read an average of nine books; the persons with primary education read only one book a year on average; the persons with higher education read ten books a year. That is inequality, and that inequality is not the result of preferences; it is, as Bourdieu would say, a consequence of class habitus. And that generates structural and very unfair inequalities. It is not a question of using these figures to throw them at each other; it is a question of uniting all of us to combat an inequality as unfair and harmful to our country as cultural inequality is. If instead of making a shallow table, as you have done, and getting us all into the same bag of disqualification, you would have required the minister's social sensitivity, political will, government initiative to try to reduce by 20 points the percentage of population that never reads a book, or improve from one book a year to three books a year among sectors that do not have primary studies, you would be doing an initiative that would have real effectiveness. That's reformism, I know. And even if it seems incredible, moving those figures is a Cyclopic task, and I fear that with the proposal that brings us - and that we will support - unfortunately it will not be enough. His motion will stone the sky of motions and non-law propositions, and the numbers of inequality in access to culture will remain unchanged. Nearby, in the Inclán Valley Theatre there is a play called Democracy by Michael Frayn. It tells how a communist spy ruins Willy Brandt's political trajectory, precisely the leader who recognized East Germany. It is seen that preventing socialists from presiding over governments is something that is in the nature of some communists. At one point in the work one of the social democrat leaders says: Our big mistake was winning the elections. When the socialists had to govern we were forced to prioritize some issues over others, to have sex, to reach agreements to get parliamentary majorities to support our laws, and there began disappointments. You have made it your custom that every time a member of your group goes up to this rostrum to criticize the PP government, he takes advantage to reproach the socialists that we did nothing, because we did not do everything. That happens to us because we made the mistake of winning elections, and we will persist in it. You, however, will never make that mistake. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u146	Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor at the turn of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u147	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. Mr Torres Mora, it is not necessary to appeal to the classics of Marxism to say that certain issues in culture are wrong, and not always the reasoning it gives, even if it leads us to the same place, it has to have the same causes. In any case, and in the light of the motion of the Podemos Group, we can agree that the situation of culture in Spain, as far as it is concerned, is critical. There are a number of reasons, some of which are raised by the proposer herself in her motion. He makes an appeal to his own cultural model, and my question is: What is his own cultural model? I would like the representative of Podemos to be able to respond, because perhaps we do not share that concept of our own cultural model. What's that about and what's that about? There is no doubt that the existing budget reduction has been noted with regard to culture, as well as the increase of 8 to 21 % of VAT, an issue that we have been criticising from the outset, because, among other things, it did not benefit or achieve the issues that were being improved, since this measure was neither a positive measure nor a positive one, and here more than once we have said it and we have been criticising it. Labour reform has undoubtedly also influenced both creators and technicians, reaching a situation of unemployment and job insecurity in the sector in all its fields. But for that we are working in the subcommission, to elaborate an artist's statute, which is very complicated because the situation of these people - both labor and social, etc. - has very complicated characteristics of their own when it comes to fitting them in other areas, which is why we are working on it. We could certainly agree with the proposer's analysis up to that point, but in the operative part something is happening that I have also told another colleague of yours about practices before. That is, we analyze the issue and the solution that is proposed to us at least is not what we like. Was that solution necessary for the proposal that you are making, to alleviate the situation that culture can have in Spain? We believe that no, because they present a mixture, a bat burrillo - and forgive the expression - in which they mix everything with everything: the situation of rural areas, broadband, the authors, VAT, etc. That is, a whole mix, and it sometimes happens that you want to bring many things and in the end we end up having a problem, because we can agree with some other question, or in the analysis, but the solutions that are proposed, as they are not worth solving everything that arises, can result in a tree in which we don't know where to start throwing, and in which every time we throw we make a fatter knot. We do not share the solution that you propose above all in the first point, in relation to the ministry with its own competences. What's that? What are the autonomous communities with competence in cultural matters for? I do not want the State to intervene in these matters. You have said to intervene where it corresponds and not where it does not, a somewhat complex situation. Your Honor, I don't want to, but apart from that - not only do I want to or don't want to - the autonomous communities have established their competences. It gives the impression that when we do not like the cultural policy that makes, for example, an autonomous community in a territory, we appeal to the State to solve this situation, which we are not going to share. The skills are the skills, whether we like it or not we like the color of who is managing them. Finally, I make you a proposal. If we could vote on the proposal by points we could consider voting in favour of some and perhaps our vote would not be in favour of others; and I say to you that on some points it is not going to be in favour in any case. The precarious situation of culture must therefore be solved in many areas, but not only with the measures you put forward in this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u148	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u149	President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. I have already told the honourable Member that we will vote against the motion tabled, and I want to reason with him. We can share the basic principles and their interpretation; there are many aspects to which we have voted in favour many times, or always, with the confederal group in the Commission itself, but what really outrages us or challenges us is the way it has been presented, and even more so the substance of the proposal that is being put forward. In fact, at the time we indicate that the Culture 2000 Plan has not been able to take advantage of the State's opportunity to lead in some way the new cultural paradigms, nor has it been able to prioritise dialogue precisely with the very territorial dynamics that exist, because, as we have commented, the territories have their own cultural dynamics, because they have their competences and their work for a long time, just as it has not been able to prioritise dialogue with cultural actors and social actors. These new cultural paradigms are the basis that can provide a new territorial model and be the cultural model within the State. The model that we always put forward would basically be a multicultural model, rich in its diversity, a model that I know some of you can share, but I also know that some of you do not share it. What I have not just understood, and perhaps that is the aspect that has brought us back to the Esquerra Group, is why in their motion they commit themselves to the ministry which should be responsible for coordinating the cultural management of the entire territory of the State. Do you not see that the creation of a Ministry of Culture with its own competences and expanded funding is an interference with the competence of the Autonomous Communities, bearing in mind that in Catalonia they are full competences? In addition, experience tells us that when a new ministerial body with its own budget is created, it is often to the detriment of the competition and funding framework of the autonomous communities. Sorry, we don't trust the Ministry of Culture, let alone now, right now in Catalonia. We don't trust you. Taking advantage of the fact that today we have intervened the Generalitat of Catalonia for the application of 155, the Minister of Culture, in his illegitimate role, has grown up and decided to hand over to the justice of Aragon the works of Sijena; some works that are at root part of the Catalan heritage, thus breaking with the integrity of the collection of the museum of Lleida, although it has evidently previously made sure that the Generalitat cannot appeal. This in a few weeks, huh? These have been the immediate steps after the implementation of 155, and this article 155 was not going to affect the normal functioning of the Catalan administration - luckily - and also in the context of elections that they say have full guarantees. What are we playing at? Do you understand why we do not trust the ministry? Do you understand why we always say that the State does not represent us? We have the example these days, today. You see, the minister has become judge and party, and unilaterally acts against the interests of Catalans, whether or not they are independent. That is why we will never vote in favour of a motion where the ministry is concerned, and more so the current ministry, which governs, coordinates or divides what cultural policy should be in the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u150	Thank you very much. Mrs Rivera de la Cruz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u151	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. García Sempere, we welcome you to bring to this House the initiative to recover the Ministry of Culture, which was something that we carried in our electoral programme. Of course, we have always relied on the recovery of this ministry, which, as Mr. Torres Mora said, already existed in other times. What happens is that we are no longer in the electoral campaign, we are now the opposition, and it is not the role or function of the opposition to shape the executive or ministerial portfolios. Of course we are in favour of this proposal, but Parliament does not have the capacity to set up ministries. I am concerned that we believe that there is an expectation that no matter how much it goes forward, even if it is unanimously, then it cannot be fulfilled. You speak of the need to take culture to highly populated areas, to remote areas, to high mountain areas. Of course, one can only be in favour, but it must be remembered that the promotion of culture is not only a state competence, there are autonomous administrations, there are local authorities that also have important competences and a lot of room for manoeuvre in this regard. And let me point out one thing: isolated and sparsely populated municipalities would have greater opportunities for development also in the cultural sector if they shared administration and budget with adjacent municipalities. The merger of municipalities that my party has defended is an outstanding subject that would also lead to improving the possibilities of offering cultural policies in small municipalities. Of course, we agree, it would be all right, to multiply efforts to ensure that new technologies, more specifically broadband, reach the last corner of our country, as the European Union also mandates. With regard to the establishment of a percentage of the exhibition of works subsidized by the Ministry of Culture on cultural circuits in the rural world, I would like to reflect: I do not see how that can be done without edging certain principles of freedom in management. I do not know very well whether it is possible to demand a theatrical company that has received public aid to set up a show that now has to take it out of obligation to this or that place, and I do not think it should be the role of the State to manage the actions of cultural enterprises either. Finally, I am surprised by the scope he wants to give to the agreement between administrations. On the one hand you are talking about achieving a great pact between the central state, autonomous communities and local entities; I think it is great, but we have a task; on the other hand, I am surprised that this pact is limited to - and I read - cultural initiatives generated by small organizations. We must be ambitious, a pact of these characteristics should accommodate all cultural actors who are willing to get involved. You are also talking about the lack of funding for culture, which of course affects all the institutions of our country, even the most representative, small and large museums. I always come up here eagerly to talk about culture, I end up talking about money, and I end up addressing Minister Montoro - of course absent - to remember that our institutions are funded far below their needs. In the case of museums, this stuttering will be suffered by future generations. The amounts that museums now invest in new works are laughable, so when in two hundred years our museums reveal important gaps in the art of the 21st century, someone will remember that there were governments that did not consider it important to acquire contemporary art and provided their museums with miserable budgets for the purchase of new artists' works. Cultural politics must be done looking at the present, but above all looking at the future, because within two centuries the Spanish museum landscape will live complicated times simply because it will not have enough work to make the famous exchanges that give life to the museums. The Minister of Finance unfortunately makes the country's cultural policy dependent. Mr Montoro spends more time worrying about selling us the bike of the goodness of the Basque quota than solving important problems: from the ridiculous budgets of our museums to the unfortunate situation, for example, of science in our country. At the moment there are almost a hundred top researchers who will have to go to the streets on 31 December because of sluggish recruitment legislation. I call on the Government to make the necessary changes to ensure the stability of the research staff. Spain is the only country in our environment where a scientist can reach the age of fifty by chaining temporary contracts. [[Applauds]] I'm done. I ask the absent Minister of Finance to give our cultural and scientific institutions a break, to broaden their autonomy, to give them more management capacity and then to be implacable in terms of accountability. The bureaucracy applied to our cultural institutions is outdated. We know, for example, that there is on the table a plan to transform the Reina Sofia museum that would at no cost allow it to be much more efficient in its daily management; please give wings to that plan, worry about these and other things; worry about providing resources for the defense of intellectual property, for libraries, for archives. My group has started in the negotiation of budgets a small extra amount which will be allocated to the fight against piracy, just as it has also started the government's commitment to finally reduce the VAT on cinema. And this goes for the gentlemen of the PSOE: please be responsible and allow the budgets to go ahead or in the next Goya Awards, when the film entries continue to be paid at 21%, I will have to say that a little is your fault. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u152	Mr Del Río Sanz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u153	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this motion, the Group of the European People's Party shows once again that it has no knowledge of culture in our country, that it has no knowledge of the reality of our country's cultural management and that it shows again that it does not have a cultural model for the Spaniards. This motion, which is a depraved, unrelated thing - it has already been pointed out -, a kind of bat burrillo, a drawer of disaster rather than a drawer of tailor, shows the ineffectiveness that they reveal where they govern, because if they are something they are incompetent and ineffective, and this is demonstrated in this motion. It's a new proof of that. He already punished us last week and today he has carried out practically the same intervention that shows that they do not care about culture. They do not care about culture, first of all, because in this motion they raise issues that do not depend on the Government of Spain. It seems a lie that they have not yet learned that culture in our country is decentralized, to the point that the cultural budget that is allocated in our country, in Spain, the state that some would say, is 16% of the central government, 29% of the autonomous communities and 55% of the municipalities and some region. You are ruling in some city or county of this country, apply it to them. They still don't know how this works and they don't know how culture works because they don't care about culture. Secondly, they do not care about culture either because they have not yet learned that the status of the artist is being discussed in this House, in the Sub-Committee on Culture. Ask your spokesman, Your Honor, that in addition to giving him a general opinion, he will give judgment on the work being done in this Commission, which I hope, in the end, even if there is agreement, will not be charged with it in the supreme Soviet of his party as a step in the anti-piracy decree. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, they do not care about culture, and this is key, because in the face of the apocalyptic and catastrophic vision that you present, the reality of our country is another very different, there is an extraordinary cultural dynamism in Spain, there have never been so many possibilities of access to culture. Yesterday precisely the yearbook of cultural statistics 2017 was published. It's by chance! Yesterday! These include many other issues, and I do not have time to point out all of them, such as, for example, that Spanish household expenditure on culture has increased by 6.9%. This is a sign of the rise in the economy and of the exit from the economic crisis. It is also reported that employment in the cultural sector has increased by 5.8%, and that there are more than 550 000 people employed in this sector, who have also grown cultural enterprises by 1.8%, and all this thanks, among other things, not only to the cultural policy of coordination carried out by the Government of the People's Party of Spain, but also to labour reform, and let me be ironic, this with VAT, because they are data from 2016, at 21%. And this year, which has dropped the live shows to 10%, so the data will be better and when finally you can present a budget in this House and we can lower, as the Minister of Education and Culture has already committed, the VAT on cinema, the data will be even better. In the same yearbook it is reported that cultural tourism for residents of Spain has increased its expenditure volume by 10% to more than €7 billion. International tourists who have come to our country for cultural reasons spent more than EUR 8 billion last year, all of which increased the disbursement by 6.5% compared to the previous year. And there's a lot more data I don't have time to review. I recommend that you consult this yearbook that is hung on the Internet. I'm going to the motion very quickly. You propose as a solution to all that there is a ministry that is only of Culture. What matters is the cultural policies that are carried out; this is what matters. And that's 1.5 % cultural management. But if you're already doing it, if you don't find out. The Ministry of Culture is already coordinating and directing the implementation of the 1.5% cultural funds. He's talking about the countryside. There are already lines of action - called culture and environment - to preserve the rural cultural heritage and to prevent its disappearance. And he's also talking about broadband. On 6 October, the Council of Ministers approved the support programme for the procurement of services to facilitate 30 megabytes per second high-speed Internet access in municipalities of 5000 inhabitants or in areas with a coverage of less than 10 megabytes per second, with the aim of reaching 100 per cent by 2020. It's hanging in Red.es. Look at it because it is raising things that the Government of Spain is already doing. I'm done, Madam President. In Spain we enjoy a culture for all, and this is fundamental for the People's Party, a culture that is free for all. The Government of the People's Party has a cultural model for Spain, a model that defends plurality and excellence, which is reflected in Agenda 2020 - I recommend you read - and which is put into practice in the day-to-day management of the Government. For the People's Party, culture is an indispensable element of personal development and a fundamental element of social progress. For what? To form free, critical, sensitive citizens, to be happier, to make better people and to build a more habitable society, with more freedom, with more equality and with more fraternity, and that is guaranteed by the policies carried out by the People's Party, not by motions that reflect inefficiency and sectarianism, such as that of Podemos. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u154	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs García Sempere whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u155	Madam President, can we send the transactional before the vote?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u157	Well, we'll get her there.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-28-CD171128.u158	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. It was eight and thirty minutes of the night.
