ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We begin with the amendments approved by the Senate to the bill amending Law 17/2006 of 5 June on State-owned radio and television, to restore the independence of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. It becomes a little complicated to follow normal life while such serious events are taking place, but we will try. I'll probably start my intervention in a not very fortunate way, but I'll get my hands on the chorus, which picks up a saying that the goat always throws on the mountain. That is, that it is difficult to overcome the desire and that in the end you always return to the place where you were born or to the place where you learned. The People's Party learned in the past legislature that with an absolute majority everything could be done; it came here one morning and changed a consensual law to put a TV president on the finger. And despite the pact that was reached here a few months ago, which would return to the old situation and elect the president in the first vote by two thirds and in the second vote by absolute majority, but with the collaboration or agreement of four groups, this proposal comes to the Senate and the PP returns to the steps, returns to the desire of the absolute majority, wants to return to the past, at those times when everything was resolved two, between one and the other, to the longing of when there was that bipartisanism. The PP tries to change the agreement and return to that pact again to two, to that pact of turnism. In short, that has much to do with the election of a certain president because on Spanish Television there is a general consensus that it is manipulated, censored, that it is not an independent television, that it is not plural and that has much to do with the way to elect its president. That is why we, since Compromís, believe that we have no alternative but to remind the People's Party that it no longer has an absolute majority, that that has remained in the past, that Spanish Broadcasting cannot be for longer the courtship of the young PP, that our public television - and I say ours because it is of all - cannot continue to crawl through the mud, and that has much to do with the election of its president as well. We need Radiotelevision to regain the prestige that the People's Party has stolen from it, and that goes without saying by electing the president by consensus, by electing the president by a large majority so that the president's election does not be reduced to two groups, which we can all express here and we can be satisfied with the new president. I'm done. I hope that here today we will return to the agreement reached a few months ago and discard those amendments that the People's Party has made in the Senate. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u3	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor. [[Pause]] As he is not in the Chamber, I have the floor for the Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I will speak from the seat very briefly because I believe that the main debates, the important debates on the television model, etc., have already been addressed yesterday, although I believe that the real debate, the deep one, would require a longer exchange because in what should be deepened and changed it is not only in how we choose the president of the corporation and its members advisors, but in what model of professional public television and dependent on the General Budgets of the State we want and if we all consider that the model that must exist is the current one or there must be another new one. But as we focus on this and this debate has already happened because it comes from the Senate, I will only address some important issues that have changed in the Senate because we have again the opportunity to return to the previous situation. I believe that consensus is fundamental, if we all believe that some things need to change and others need to be improved. Therefore, at the time of the vote we will be going to see which amendments need to be ratified and which are to be replaced. I believe that we would discuss in vain whether we would repeat issues that have already been ratified in other debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u5	For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor. [[Pause]] As we did not find ourselves in the Chamber, we moved on to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a democratic system it is essential that the media, whether public or private, radio, television or any other media, be plural and guided by information rigour. The Spanish Constitution itself, in article 20, demands for the means of public ownership to respect the pluralism of the society to which they serve. Radiotelevision Española, unfortunately, has been an example - and it is not from now on - of, allow me the expression but deserves, institutional trilerism, of the distribution of institutions by the parties calling into question, when we make a cold balance, impartiality, rigour and pluralism. The system of election of the board of directors implemented in the X Legislature has resulted in a decaying Spanish Radio Television, with decreasing levels of audience, with a fall in the quality of information, with improved programming and with harmful management, on many occasions. It has come to condemn the institution, with the current president, to publish memoirs and accounts given the constant refusal of his council to submit to transparency, becoming a kind of institutional exception that has no meaning whatsoever and that seems to have been rooted in custom. That is, the Spanish Radio Television has become accustomed to being opaque and the Spanish have become accustomed to enduring that opacity as if it were a kind of natural evil against which nothing can be done; and yes, it can be done; many things can be done. There are several organisms to break with this fatalism of: well, you know, it's Spanish Radiotelevision. No, no, you have to break up with that; and sometimes to break up with these fatalisms it is better to realize and review some things that can scandalize us. So let's scandal ourselves a little bit about how some of the organizations that have pointed out the management of Spanish Radio Television as opaque, inefficient and even alienated from the very rules to which it is subject. The National Commission on Markets and Competition has repeatedly fined Spanish Radio Television for covert advertising. The General Intervention of the State has pointed out serious shortcomings in its management in a report which, moreover, refuse to publish and refuse to hand over to the representatives of this House, despite the fact that, fortunately, it remains a country with free press. And it is in the hands of the press, which is publishing for deliveries, which is supplying drop by drop the scandal. The Transparency and Good Government Agency states that it does not comply on Spanish Radio Television with what is required in these areas: transparency and good governance. They point to the opacity of the corporation in several respects, for example, why not publish the salaries of the top directors of Spanish Radiotelevision? What mystery is there? We are in a society where the public is increasingly transparent. We ourselves are subject to transparency rules and any Spaniard can know what we entered, what we had when we started to be Members. Now, if you're a senior director of Spanish Radio Television, you make the mystery, you make the darkness. What's going on? What's going on there? What mysteries do you hide? How many zeros must there be so they don't teach us? [[Applauds]] I'm on it. The Court of Auditors points out a multitude of shortcomings, the most striking, the way in which public procurement is carried out. Indeed, according to this body - the Court of Auditors - the envelopes have been opened before time. Since no one is blushing over this, let me blush: the envelopes have been opened before time! The judges have condemned Spanish Radiotelevision to give access to reports that are committed to concealing. There is a worker from a trade union who cannot access the report of the General Intervention of the State, despite the fact that there is a sentence that states that he has the right to know it. By the way, the President of Spanish Radio-television has already announced on several occasions, before our questions, for example, in the Committee on Control, that he does not intend to listen to any of these entities in their pronouncements. Information services have also been covered on numerous occasions and the government's use of information services has some climax, as it is - it was said here the other day, but I like to recreate myself in it - to hand over the party's argument to the person who has to give the news. I don't have time, but to orientate myself, what shouldn't be done with an entity like Spanish Radiotelevision? What is done in Spain. What should be done? What is done in the BBC, where people of Margaret Thatcher's or Tony Blair's weight couldn't get their hands on, despite trying for many years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u7	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Vera Ruiz-Herrera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I understand that we have more important or, at least, more urgent challenges at the moment, but I do believe that at the moment you deserve to be in this House. Caring for the right to information is important and must be emphasized. In addition, certain things must also be repeated. If you'll excuse me, I'm going to do a little review of recent history, and I'll start on July 21, 2011. On that day, the Community of Madrid, through its majority of the People's Party, appoints José Antonio Sánchez as the new president of Telemadrid. In those days the workers of Telemadrid, in the face of desolation, the destruction of audience, the manipulation that was because of their predecessor - fixed, with this good heart - published on their platform, in Salvemos Telemadrid, the following text: It seems that this appointment implies a bet from the Community of Madrid for our company to continue to exist within a short time. It seems logical to think that a person with the curriculum of the new director general - important, although it is true that frankly escorted to the right - does not come to spend time, does not come to close the company. Mr. Sanchez, welcome. There were at that time 1169 workers in Telemadrid. A year and a half later, in January 2013, the Community of Madrid, with Ignacio González at the head and Mr Sánchez, imposed an ERE that left 860 of those who welcomed him on the street, of which 300 - more than half - were senior officials, chiefs, editors and members of the People's Party. They went to the street on a Saturday, to humiliate them more and so that they could not even go after their things. And believe me, gentlemen of the People's Party, that if you come to know that what you were living with illusions thinking that Mr. Sánchez was going to regain the dignity that his former friends had stolen from you, you would not have left that 'welcome' in writing. So for them and for them, for justice, today what is going to be done in this House is also political justice for them. Thank you all very much. But he left, in the end, Sanchez, after dynamizing everything, after destroying the audiences, to leave them at 4.4%, in historical minimums, he left and replaced a person named Ángel Martín Vizcaíno, who was his right hand, the deputy director of Telemadrid. He stayed long enough, left only six months ago. Do you know how they've gone, apart from 800 illegal redundancies in their pockets? With 180 000 euros of compensation and a post of adviser of the People's Party in the City of Madrid. For them and for them, I insist, today it will also be done here - not only by the comrades of Spanish Radiotelevision - political justice. October 22, 2014. The Congress of Deputies, through the absolute majority of the People's Party, appoints the new president of Spanish Broadcasting. I believe that everyone is already clear, from all the debates we have had, that they place José Antonio Sánchez, only one year after having thrown 800 people into his house. Do you know how much - Mr. Girauta, in that we can point out figures - they reward this gentleman for throwing 800 people away? At EUR 200 000 a year, 2.4 times more than the President of the Government, more than 20 interprofessional minimum wages, with an ERE of 860 people behind his back. And with his arrival, with those 200 000 euros that cost us every year to all Spaniards the post of José Antonio Sánchez, the purges start again. It does not apply an ERE this time, but today, of 47 editors who were in their positions of responsibility, there is only 1 left; until last week there were 2, they removed Regalado from La 2 Noticias and today there is only 1. And then everything that you know and that I do not intend to repeat again because there is a record in the Journal of Sessions: parallel writings, manipulation, censorship, cheap propaganda, lack of transparency, opacity and lack of stable funding. But instead of desolating and enchanting the workers of the house, the only thing that has happened is that you have given them the strength to continue fighting, to continue fighting and to make us all pass this law today, with your more and less and overcoming the tricks that you have tried to do in Congress. Yesterday I said that I would celebrate honestly if the PSOE were to back off and in the end we respected among all in an honest way the agreement we reached in Congress. I thank you, I do it because I said it. It seems that not everything will be left as it was in June, but yes some of the most important things. I also celebrate the position of Citizens. But the important thing and the beauty of all this is that it is not a prize for the PSOE nor is it a prize for Citizens nor is it a prize for us; it is a prize - as I think we are all clear - for the workers of the house, who have made it clear that the beauty of all this is that the victory is of all of them; that, despite the pressure they have been receiving all these years, they got more than 2,200 signatures - eye, with the political pressure that they are supposed to be living constant layoffs around them - that there was a whole editorial that closed to show Spain that they were manipulating the house and that the Spaniards were being deceived with their own money; that they got at least three - the People's Party left behind - of the spokesmen of the secretaries general of the main parties will sign a sheet in which we committed ourselves to bringing this law here today and approving it; that the beauty of society is becoming more and more aware; that the beauty is that there are people, like the comrades of Teledetodos, that we should have been doing this work here and that we should have done today in this House. [[Applauds]] And how nice it is that, although Mr Ramon Moreno, spokesman for the People's Party in the Committee on Control, has called the information board tired of all the reports of bad practices they do, they have not stopped calling us - for your information - all the time so that you do not stay out of this pact and that we give in to certain things. The nice thing is to dedicate ourselves today simply to thanking those who are really going to pass this law, who are none of us. It's all ahead of us. This law is insufficient, it does not convince us, the workers also make it clear. We must continue, and that is why a motion will be approved today. There's a commitment I think we've all signed. We must continue to work for a new model of Spanish Radiotelevision, this is only a starting point to solve the urgency and the lack of shame within the house on Spanish Television and on Spanish National Radio. We have to go on, that's how we'll do it. You are welcome to our working table, which we are going to adopt today and at which we are going to work to achieve measures to ensure independence, people's participation, transparency, digital transformation and stable financing. You're welcome. And to you, what am I going to tell you? Congratulations! [[Addressing the guest gallery]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u9	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Camacho Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, good morning and greetings from the Socialist Group to the representatives of the Spanish Radio-television Information Councils and to the representatives of the workers who have so much struggled to arrive at a situation like the one we are experiencing today. Today we are carrying out another procedure within the parliamentary procedure of a law which the Socialist Group considers very important. At this time, rather than reviewing everything that has happened during these years from the year 2006 until the adoption on 22 June of the bill in this House, I would like to talk about the future, although obviously some reference will have to be made to the past. The first reference, which I believe is the guiding thread of all this, is the title of the law itself. Ladies and gentlemen, with the Government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, a socialist government, Law 17/2006, on State-owned radio and television was adopted in 2006. That was the title of the law. The title of what we adopted on 22 June in this House - certainly unanimously of all groups, which I am grateful for - a title that says a lot is: a proposal for a law amending Law 17/2006 of 5 June on State-owned radio and television to regain the independence of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. That title has not had any amendments, from which we can deduce that all groups - including the People's Party - agree that independence and pluralism must be restored in the election of the organs of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. Independence, that is what we want and with that - I think we are all aware of it because, I repeat, no one has tabled an amendment to change the title - we all agree. That's what we have to do. We have already said in all the debates that we have had what has happened during these six years. Some example has been given in the previous speeches that I will not repeat. There will be a Committee on Radio and Television Control next Thursday, and unfortunately we will have to insist on it again, but my group is interested in talking about the future, about what is ahead. Today, with the approval or rejection of the Senate amendments, the work to be done is not complete. We have very important things ahead, probably as important as the law itself. We have to agree and work immediately on something that is fundamental to the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation: the framework mandate, which has expired several months ago. It is essential because it is the one who has to decide the future of the next nine years. And we also need to put the programme contracts in place, because none of them have been implemented. In short, the day-to-day work, in which we all have to agree. From here I urge each and every one of the parliamentary groups that this work, also in relation to the motion that has been tabled by Unite Podemos and that we will then vote, be serious and lead us to have an independent public television, as I said before, that it is not from the parliamentary groups or from the workers themselves, with all my respect, but from the citizens and that it fulfils something that is fundamental and that appears in the spirit of the law: that it is a public service. A public service must be at the service of citizens and not political parties, of none. We must put an end to the vetoes, to the purges and, ultimately, to the constant and constant manipulation that is being done in Spanish Radiotelevision. That is the objective and I encourage from here to each and every one of the parliamentary groups. I end up with something that's unusual. I want - and I sincerely say this because I believe that we must recognize things as they are - to show my gratitude to the Group of the European People's Party for a very simple reason, and that no one should interpret this as a face-wash of everything that has happened before, for nothing, but when things are done, they are recognized and thanked. I have to thank the People's Party that in the Senate process it has unlocked - it was the one that had the key by the absolute majority that it has there - the impossibility of applying the law since there are two incongruous articles regarding the number of members of the board of directors. When things are to be recognized, I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u11	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreno Bustos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after what we have heard in the last few days and this very morning, I no longer have the slightest doubt, if anyone still had it, that we are in a debate that has no other purpose, no other objective or intention, is wrapped up as one wants to wrap himself up or disguises himself as one wants to disguise the package, than to attack the People's Party, do what he does and say what he says. Let that firecracker come from the ranks of Podemos not catch us unsuspecting. We know very well who they are, what they think and how they act in this matter. It is more surprising that they drag other groups in this House into their anti-system crusade, which never fade, despite the blemishes and mimes, not to say insults, which they constantly receive from them. Yesterday morning they support a motion for independence and freedom and in the afternoon they will attack and destroy the institutions, exactly the same. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that errors have been corrected in the Senate and the text has been properly clarified in some gloomy points which made it directly inapplicable, such as the disparity in the number of councillors; the reference to the open competition, which will apply to all councillors and not only to the president, has been improved; a timely obligation has been introduced to respect the gender balance in the composition of the council, and the commitment to agreement and consensus in the election of the board of directors of Spanish Broadcasting has been properly corrected. By the way, let us remember that the first proposal of the three fifths as an anti-blocking solution that has been incorporated by the Senate was made by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group in an amendment presented in Congress on May 22 in the Official Gazette of the General Courts, as did the Podemos Group in the Senate as well and which later withdrew it. It does not seem, therefore, that this initiative was so extravagant or foolish, as both groups have then come to understand and to which the Socialist Group seems, surprisingly, not to give its support now. A solution such as that sought by some of an absolute majority with four groups that endorse it, if the two-thirds initially required are not achieved, is very unfortunate in terms of democratic legitimation because it assumes the possibility of marginalizing the main group of the House in the election of an organ for which, in a first instance, its assistance is required inexcusably. It is not a question of defeating or not defeating the majority group which does not have an absolute majority at any given time or stage and which would be perfectly reasonable through the formation of alternative majorities, what is intended here - and it cannot be understood or shared from the legal and parliamentary logic, as the spokesman of the Socialist Party herself, Mrs Robles, acknowledged and recommended during our discussions - is to articulate a procedure of election that can exclude the first group of the House by lowering the numerical requirement under the pretext or subterfuge of adding a plurality of groups. We did not expect, I confess, that the groups that had proposed the three-fifth solution would not maintain their position, unless it was because the People's Group had endorsed it. Nor did we sincerely expect the Socialist Group to come back to its steps now to take such an incomplete proposal, and more so when the spokesman for the Socialist Group, whom I thank for his words on behalf of his group, had closed this matter and others with whom he spoke just a few weeks ago. We regret it and, of course, draw the appropriate reason from it. The degree of confidence and credibility which the Socialist Party deserves for this purpose from now on will understand that it cannot be lower. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Senate proceedings there have been no scumbags or sledgehammers or strange things like those that have been said with very little prudence and a lack of knowledge at times of reality. Truly, there are those who speak of consensus without doing anything to achieve it or, rather, doing everything possible to never achieve it. Ladies and gentlemen, beyond some truly fantastic interpretations of the passage of the bill by the Senate, we thought we had taken a great step, that of a pact that should have been extended, materialized and completed in the coming months. It must remain on the sidelines in order to achieve a great pact, without preventive exclusions, without pedestrian disqualifications, without rambles, with sensible and clear rules and with the firm intention that everyone, without exception, be reflected in that pact. We would be sending a very positive message to Spanish society, a message of commitment to consensus as an objective in our country's main public media; we would be on the right path. We knew it wouldn't be easy, and we've seen it every day. For this reason, some discourses that are obstinate to put obstacles, to distort or seek confrontation at all costs should have been overcome; jealousy, interference, obstacles and prejudices should have been overcome and those who, for whatever reasons, do not yet share the objective should have been integrated. That said, Spanish Radio Television must continue to carry out its important task under the best conditions with the wider support of Parliament and will be more effective and valued the more support and stability we can give it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation is, at the point where it is located, as our country's main information reference. I remind you: twelve months of audience leaders - and rising -, hardly despite some, with a pulsive, transparent and effective management, not to mention any of their workers, with the widest and most ambitious international projection, incorporating the most avant-garde technology and the challenges of the new means of access, winning the future with solvency and enjoying an unquestionable social esteem thanks to the impulse of a president such as Don José Antonio Sánchez, his managers and also his workers. That is a matter of justice, and it is also a matter of making it clear here. That is why this reform cannot be considered, as some people do, from an uneducating or uneven political strategy. This reform, nor should the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation be a battlefield on which to get into a previous and irreplaceable script. It would be a pity for someone to focus on him that way by believing that he achieves some advantage or puts his political opponents in a halt. Of course, our will is meridian and rigorous in this matter: we are going to work and we have worked hard in favour of the agreement, we are going to live up to what Parliament expects for Spanish Broadcasting and we are going to contribute positively to this important challenge that we have raised. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u13	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u14	We continue with the agenda item on debates on all legislative initiatives. In accordance with the agreement reached at the Board of Spokesmen, we will discuss cumulatively the amendments to the entire alternative text submitted to the proposal for an Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security and repeal of the Organic Law 4/2015 of 30 March on the Protection of Citizens' Security, and to the proposal for an Organic Law on the Reform of the Organic Law 4/2015 of 30 March on the Protection of Citizens' Security. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to each bill. For the defence of the amendments tabled, I have the floor, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u15	Egun on. Good day to discuss this issue, a clear example of the objectives of a so-called State of law that is rather a State that believes with the right to violate the most basic rights as it is doing in Catalonia that, in a clear exercise of democracy, wants to give the floor to the citizens who demand it. From here all our support for the Catalan citizenship that is also facing a cowardly government that suspends autonomy through the back door and that gives the shameful image of interrupting a kalejira because a giant carries a 'yes' sign, a sign like this one that I now carry in my hands. [[Show a sign]] And you who say so much acting with the law in hand I wonder if you're going to chase me too for showing my adherence to the referendum next October 1st. It is time for them to assume that Catalonia's determination to decide its future is unstoppable. On the other hand, the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, better known as the Law on Mordaza, was approved only with the votes of the People's Party and is aimed mainly at suppressing popular movements, controlling the population that for social, political or labor reasons does not share the current state of affairs, and welcoming its right of assembly and demonstration, wants to show its dissent on the street. This law aims to control this part of the population by means of administrative fines, considering a wide variety of protest actions in violation, giving greater power and impunity to the police forces and with an indefinacy that generates defencelessness. Ultimately, it is a law that violates fundamental rights of citizenship such as the rights to physical or moral integrity or the right to privacy, the right to non-discrimination on ideological grounds, the rights to assembly, peaceful demonstration and strike, or the right to freedom of expression and information. It is also a law that punishes more severely, although it may become less visible and more repressive in that it regulates a sanctioning procedure with less guarantees than the penal one, establishing principles such as the presumption of veracity of police officers. And all this with the excuse of guaranteeing citizen security on account of diminishing when not flagrantly violating rights and freedoms. And it is that this law violates some of the guiding principles of the legal system. This is the case with the principle of legal certainty, as it is full of indeterminate legal concepts that only increase uncertainty and confusion between citizens. It also violates the principle of legality linked to the former because the power that interprets the laws is the same that enforces them, that is, the police officers have become judge and party and are, moreover, unquestionable, unappealable, sublimating without reservation the principle of authority. In addition to those mentioned above, the principles of equality of the parties, the principle of contradiction and proportionality are also violated by the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security. In the case of the right to equality, because within the sanctioning procedures established by law the administrations acting are based on a clear advantage vis-à-vis the persons administered. As for the principle of contradiction establishing a duality or a struggle between the parties holding opposing legal positions, it disappears by giving the procedural prevalence to one of them that instructs and resolves. In the same vein, the principle of proportionality is violated since the law punishes offences that are theoretically less serious than the crime, with economic fines that are more severe than the Penal Code itself, such as in the case of mild disobedience, which has a penalty that exceeds that provided for in the Criminal Code for serious disobedience. Precisely, conduct is decriminalized to subject them to administrative sanction, but disregarding the sanctioned for any guarantee to defend themselves or face such sanction and, in some cases, making it more severe or burdensome. For this reason, Euskal Herria Bildu understands that this law should be repealed, a position that he had just a few months ago with the support of the majority of the Congress of Deputies that committed to it, but that after the June 2016 elections he chose to forget what was promised and to limit himself to a reform of it. With this in mind, to reform it, Euskal Herria Bildu remains in that initial position of repealing this law, restoring the full force of fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and establishing all possible procedural guarantees for the defence of alleged acts of infringement. Once the process of reform is driven by the will of those who initially advocated the repeal, we believe that it should be as profound as possible, far beyond the superficial and cosmetic reform proposed by the Socialist and Basque parliamentary groups. Returning to the Corcuera Law as proposed by the PSOE is not the solution. In the case of the amendment proposed by the PNV, although it is true that its proposal makes some interesting modifications, certainly some of which we also include in our own amendment, the truth is that, in the fundamental - the repressive and restrictive philosophy and conception of the law - it is currently the same, placing people exercising fundamental rights as suspects and not as persons who must be guaranteed the exercise of these rights in the public space. This is the change of philosophy and conception that the alternative articulation that we present is intended to achieve, and this is the ultimate reason for the submission of an amendment to the whole, trying to make it a law of guarantees of the exercise of fundamental rights and civil and political freedoms, decriminalizing the exercise of those rights. Thus, in the article we propose, first of all, we have completely modified the content of the first chapter with the intention of highlighting the exercise of rights that the current law criminalizes and clarify its content. On this subject, the actions of the public authorities that we intend should instruct the police forces in mediation, creating teams with professionals from different fields whose task is to facilitate the management of the various conflicts that may occur in the fundamental exercise of the right to demonstration and assembly. We do not understand the role of police as mere repression but as prevention, we do not understand police action as the application of sanctioning instruments but as a problem-solving actor. The mediation function is an existing figure in other modern and advanced police systems and is an important tool that helps to avoid unnecessary administrative procedures, given the limited nature of the facts that can be solved by other means. Just as we have included this paragraph because we consider it important, we have eliminated others because they are repetitive and unnecessary. We have eliminated the whole of Chapter II by considering that it runs counter to criteria on the civil and political rights of persons outside their place of birth and by understanding that only from a criminalizing and controllative conception of persons can this chapter be understood in this law. This also does not make it difficult to regulate the issuance of a DNI or passport by means of a specific law for this purpose or by means of regulations. With regard to the documentary situation of migrants, another equally repressive law already existed. In chapter III, we have reworded the limitations of rights contained in the law in order to put the guarantee of the exercise of fundamental rights in a positive way. There are also a number of limitations that are currently covered by the law, and we provide as an exception the possibility of restricting movement on grounds of safety, adding that it should be adopted in a reasoned resolution on suitability, necessity and proportionality. We establish that it will only be possible to identify and register a person when there is a record that he or she has committed an offence as a means of avoiding arbitrariness. We have significantly reduced the actions considered punishable, trying to avoid the consideration of infringement of those actions that either have their equivalent in the criminal field or it is not possible to determine the protected legal good in the administrative field as is the case with a significant part of the offences currently provided for in the law. We have also changed the amount and form of the sanctions and incorporated the application of mitigating and aggravating measures proposed by the Basque Nationalist Party along with the articles on the prescription of sanctions, regulatory clearance and reparation for damages. In this way and with this articulation we understand that we give an important turn to the law and that we place the emphasis on guaranteeing the exercise of rights and not on the extreme limitation of them until criminalization. That is why we believe that it is a better starting point for achieving a more consistent final text if we stick to the votes that have been taking place in this House with the feeling of a majority in favour of the repeal. We do not ask anyone to subscribe in their entirety to the content of our amendment, but to opt for a superficial change with a law such as the current one or for the real possibility of changing the philosophy and approach from repressive key to guarantor of fundamental rights. There are no more options at this time on the table and a profound change in our understanding of the need to support the amendment we have tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols also has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u17	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The gods know what they do, especially when they do it again, the Greeks said. Today we are talking about an unfair law. I am wrong to say this, because we thought it was necessary and asked for its consideration, but we ended up voting against it, horrified by the final result. The Greeks centuries ago when they decided to give themselves a democracy did not give him this name; they called it isonomy, which meant submission to the laws. It's a name that didn't last long. After a short time they realized that the regime they wanted to establish was not subjection to the laws. That was only a part and not the main part. The regime they wanted to establish had to be called democracy: the power of the people. The power of the people is above the power of the laws, because there may be unjust laws. More than a theoretical reflection, I will make a very practical comment. Remember those who were in the X Legislature to Marc Solsona, a deputy of ours, mayor of Mollerusa? This friend of ours, this former companion that many of you will remember, has been the first mayor who has had to go and declare simply to fulfill his program and to make his people able to vote as they had asked. This is an unfair rule. This would be isolation, but it would not be democracy. It's not a theoretical example, it's very practical. You know who Rosa Parks was, don't you? Although a democratic parliament of a democratic state - in this case, that of Alabama - had approved that blacks had to sit in the chairs behind the buses, that lady one day got tired, sat in front opposing an unjust law - as is also the law gag, I am not turning away at all from the issue - and so managed to change the laws. One person on a bus. Ladies and gentlemen, you in Catalonia have created more than seven hundred Rosas Parks, seven hundred mayors who have signed a decree to make a call, seven hundred Rosas Parks with millions of votes behind them all. Ladies and gentlemen, you are still in time to correct this. Looks like they haven't learned anything since 1898. They haven't learned anything since Cuba. It would now be time for them to learn it at once. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u18	Thank you very much. At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u19	Thank you very much, President. I'll step in from the seat because I'll do it briefly. I simply wish to express our position on taking account of this amendment as a whole. We believe that there is nothing substantial that could not be added by amendments to the proposals which, both our parliamentary group and the Socialist parliamentary group, have tabled in this House and which were taken into consideration, but which, from January of this year to recent dates - on 11 September of this month - had not been able to be dealt with in the Commission because they were blocked by successive requests for extensions of the deadlines for tabling amendments or for an amendment to the whole of which has been tabled in this case. Therefore, the consideration of this proposal would delay a processing which we consider necessary and which is already very late in time. Furthermore, we do not consider that the ultimate aim of the initiative that we are now debating is to be detrimental to us because, once examined, we believe that there is no impediment to the continuation of the corresponding particular amendments to either of the two texts currently being processed, in particular with regard to the text that our parliamentary group has tabled. As the Spokesperson for the Joint Parliamentary Group, author of this amendment to the whole, has pointed out in part, the proposal that brings us simply dispenses with a series of articles of the current Law on Citizens' Security, and with regard to those that it takes into consideration proposes an amendment that largely coincides with our texts presented and taken into consideration by this House almost a year ago. In short, Your Honor, Madam President - and I conclude - we express our position against the consideration of this proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u20	Thank you very much. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u21	[[He began his speech in Catalan, whose text, which he gave to the Diario de Sesiones, read as follows: Molt bon dia, presidente, senyores i senyors deputats. Solidarity with all detainees yesterday in Catalonia, members of the Government, technical branches of the Government; obviously detained to carry out a democratic mandate and obviously not detained for corruption cases affecting other branches of the State]] You seek to solve your political problems through the Police and the Civil Guard, and that was the logic behind the adoption of the so-called law on gags. With it they profiled a police state that gave the police the functions of judge while promoting a political police in which those who managed to meddle were those who served the orders of the government rather than the rule of law itself; a political police that was able to invent bulls and evidence to incriminate politicians who, of course, were of different ideology to theirs. Its law does not treat the police as an institution dedicated to the maintenance of public peace and justice, but rather as an instrument of political and social repression at the orders of the Government of office, in this case the People's Party, not as an instrument to guarantee demonstrations and the right to freedom of expression but to suppress them. This is his concept of police and democracy turned into law with the Law gag. His law has serious democratic shortcomings, very serious democratic shortcomings. But it is even worse; yesterday in Catalonia you skipped all the laws to apply de facto and without any democratic backing article 155 of the Constitution by intervening in Catalan autonomy and proclaiming the state of emergency in Catalonia. The law is being skipped with the excuse of guaranteeing the law in a clear attack on the rule of law that should have scandalized the entire opposition and have the prosecutor's office intervene in crimes, because there are crimes. It is Spanish democracy that is at stake and the position you take regarding the illegalities that the Spanish Government is committing in Catalonia will be the measure of its own democracy. They are making clear to us what their Spain is and they are giving us plenty of reason to pretend to be independent of it. What is happening in Catalonia is not an attack on the independenceists - we do not feel directly attacked - but an attack on democracy, on Spanish democracy itself and on the people of Catalonia, as they seek to deny them the right to vote, the right to decide, those who want to vote yes and those who want to vote no. Therefore, in response to this political repression, we urge all citizens of Catalonia to vote on October 1st, to vote that yes or no or no vote, according to what they believe must be the future of Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u22	One second, Mrs. Capella. I remind you of the compliance with article 102.1. Thank you very much. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u23	...but let them demonstrate - I go to the question, Your Honor - their democratic sense by voting and not legitimize the political repression and the great democratic deficits imposed by the People's Party government. [[He finished his speech in Catalan, whose text, which he gave to the Journal of Sessions, said: Catalans, Catalans, now more than ever, went to vote, let us go to vote. To safeguard democracy and the public freedoms of everyone. The Catalans and the Junta of Spanish Democrats]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u24	I would remind all your ladies and gentlemen of the observance of Rule 102.1, as I have reminded the speaker. We moved on to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to this rostrum today to set my party's position in this debate on the whole of a law that has been the subject of controversy precisely because of the suspicion that it could assign arbitrary powers to the authorities, in part of its articulation, and some of whose precepts are for this reason appealed to the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no doubt that Citizens are going to raise their voices in the defence of the rights and freedoms, the rights and freedoms of individuals, because that is being liberal. Some are concerned with confusing what liberalism is. I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that liberalism is born as a model, as a system, as a political philosophy to defend the freedoms and rights of citizens against despotism and absolutism. We have among our main obligations to protect those freedoms and rights, freedoms and rights that the amending parliamentary group has never shown to be defending. Because, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, you hold the seats of this Parliament today, which, by the way, you do not give any credibility, any legitimacy, even no representativeness. We don't forget who they are or where they come from. We do not forget that you are the children of those who defend ideas with weapons. We do not forget that your puppies continue to harass, insult and assault anyone who does not think like you. Ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, how can you come to teach us lessons about human rights, freedoms, freedom of expression or legal certainty if the repression you condemn in the explanatory statement is the same as you are supporting today in Catalonia? How can you just come to talk to us about a democratic order when you are the ones who support the coup-makers who are jumping the laws in Catalonia? [[Applauds]] Don't be careful, Mrs. de Bildu, don't worry, this rostrum can come to your opinion and you won't pursue the law. Don't jump it and the law won't pursue it. I'll do the same today, I won't skip the laws and so he'll never pursue me. [[Applauds]] How can a party that chooses as a candidate for Lendakari a proletarian leader, unable to hold public office, to talk to us about fundamental rights and freedoms, to talk to us about democracy with this candidate, 'a man of peace', Mr. Iglesias - is not with us today -? How can a party that carries on its lists characters like Elena Beloki, sentenced to thirteen years in prison for belonging to the armed gang, to talk to us about fundamental rights and freedoms, to talk to us about democracy? How can a party today, whose representative in the Senate, Iñaki Goioga, was accused by the Supreme Court for integration into ETA, to talk to us about fundamental rights and freedoms, to talk to us about democracy? How can a party come in which some of its militants and elected officials organize twenty-four hour fasts in solidarity with ETA prisoners to talk to us about rights and freedoms, to talk to us about democracy? [[Show a photograph of Mr. Otegi]] [[Applauds]] I have analyzed your alternative text carefully and in depth and I have clearly seen who they are on the side of. Of course, they make an account of the actions of our biased State Security Forces and Bodies and nothing adjusted to reality. For you are the criminals, for us are the guarantors of the observance of law and law. [[Applauds]] They are against the possibility of identifying suspected perpetrators of punitive conduct in a preventive manner as a criminal offence. So what do we have left? That once we arrest him in flagrante delicto we can identify him and in the meantime we can't even ask him for identification? So, what do we have the law enforcement for? You do not condemn violent acts, but you endorse them. Or didn't you say that the attacks on civilian guards in a bar in Alsasua were just a bar fight? By the way, in this do not worry that they go by the hand of Podemos; We can also call the aggression as a bar fight and the deputy Navarra Belarus - by the way, it is not with us today either - received in Congress the relatives of those accused of the aggression, not the victims. [[Applauds]] How can you come to tell us about social peace when you condemn or not an act of violence depending on who the victim is! Are not fascist attitudes the threats - I quote literally - of fucking pickles or txakurras to two agents of the Civil Guard who on their day of rest were with their women taking something quietly in a cafeteria? That freedom of expression that you defend is only for those you want. Freedoms and rights are only for those you want. For, Your Honor, make it clear that Citizens want a society of equal and free people, of free and equal citizens. I will tell you clearly what Citizens' position is regarding the Citizens' Security Act. Our group will be presenting amendments to the joint text with the aim of improving a rule which clearly has to offer greater guarantees for citizens, which very well delimits police capabilities with a view to reducing the pressure on our agents on many occasions, which threatens violence, which marginalises extremism, guarantees social peace, pursues vandalism and, of course, pursues threats such as those received today by the constitutionalists in Catalonia by those who have come to support their friend Mr Otegi. Here I have two photos that clearly show who Mr Otegi supports - I think we know them - Mr Tardà and Mr Rufián; of course, excellent Democrats. [[Samples]] [[Applauds]] Let me remind you, Your Honor of Bildu, of the great work our State Security Forces and Corps are doing to defend our citizens, to ensure our security and to ensure compliance with the law. They are a wall of containment against the behavior of radicals; those radicals that then surround and beat them, the radicals you defend. That is why we will vote against the amendment as a whole because it is not about the victims but about the executioners, and we will always find ourselves with the victims and in the defence of rights and freedoms. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u26	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u27	Egun on. Good morning. Today we are discussing the law on the gag, again the law on citizen security, a debate that, despite the calls to the question, is obviously tinted with what is today, reality, and so it must be. We have an approach above the table of two different laws, beyond the repeal term, which is a proposal for a law of the PNV and a kind of melancholic return to the origins, which is the approach of the Socialist Party with the Corcuera Law, to which we have already referred in other debates. This amendment to the whole of Bildu we read with the greatest interest because we proposed that, instead of getting out of this procedural mess we had had with two amendments, it might be of interest to work on another text. Unfortunately, we understand that it does not meet the basic requirements on which to make the amendments in the sense that we and we wanted, and believe me that I am sorry, because we have read it carefully and at first we shared the approach because it seemed interesting to move from an absolutely repressive concept to a concept protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, which is what we can, this party, will always be with; that is, the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. That is what attracted us to that approach. From there, I won't extend much, but we understand that some consideration must be given. We were concerned that we are talking about restorative justice or mediation - you confuse the whole with the part - but that it is not guaranteed enough how it will be implemented. It seemed to us to be a somewhat confusing and, at times, somewhat unreal; in addition, we were concerned about some other issues relating to the principle of legality. In any case, it is a much more interesting debate that you and I can have on this law than, for example, issues that we have just heard from the Citizens Group which, with all due respect, has contributed absolutely nothing to this debate. This being said as an introduction and announcing that, consequently, we will abstain, the position of this group is already known and has been seen in similar debates: No to the Law gag, no to the Law Corcuera. Evidently, the law is an absolutely violation of fundamental rights - for that it was done; it was in the repressive architecture that the People's Party had in mind regarding a cycle of social and territorial mobilizations -, it has that objective, therefore, much more we are not going to extend. The Secretary of State for Security told me in an appearance, in that challenging way that you sometimes have, to expose you to a single case of violation of the rights of the law gag. I have exactly three and a half minutes and it is not a question of raising this issue either. Read the reports of the Ombudsman, read the reports of Amnesty International, read what professors write, read what activists write, and above all don't turn your back on citizens; don't turn your back on that street that you claim to rule absolutely without a people behind. [[Applauds]] By putting ourselves in a positive position in relation to what we and we are going to defend in this procedure, the first irrevocable question: the defence of the rights and freedoms of citizens. I repeat it a lot to make it clear. We cannot establish a law with a repressive concept, a law that has a concept of citizen security that is restricted only to the control of what you call public peace and not public order, which is exactly the peace of the cemetery, that no one moves. Anything on the street is disorder for you, and disorder for you is all that contradicts your ideas and everything that contradicts an approach to which you want to lead us on the unique path of light, truth and knowledge that you treasure. [[Applauds]] We will also defend an absolute reform of everything that is the sanctioning types, which are absolutely disproportionate and have no logical or normal meaning; moreover, that excessive rigour that you claim in the law is totally inapplicable. As for the functions of the police of identification and detention, they have gone absolutely out of hand there. It's no longer a preventive issue, but anyone can be stopped on suspicion. The figure of retention you have already raised to a factual category of normal situation, and that we are not going to accept, we are never going to accept. Read what the Constitutional Court says, between freedom and deprivation of liberty there are no intermediate spaces; or someone is detained or free. It's simple, isn't it? Well, that's right. We will try to prevent the exercise of public security functions by private companies. The bargain is the bargain, but we don't like it. We will withdraw all violations that affect issues such as freedom of information. You listen to the press in this regard and see how your work with the Law is difficult to deal with and everything you put in for specific ideological reasons - the slavery, the actions of Greenpeace, the Congress...-, everything you posed because, in fact, you didn't like it. The principle of legality and the principle of basic proportionality in law and, of course, we will raise questions of restorative justice - it has already been raised here - as in many advanced countries, where all conflicts are resolved in a dialogue. We need the formation of the modern State Security Forces and Bodies in line with the role they must play in a modern democratic and legal State. And forget about the hot returns, because we'll also fix them until they're gone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u28	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I confess to you that I do not quite understand what your aim is with this amendment, primarily because, through what we have read, it is probably not to amend the position of the Socialist Party but to amend its position, the position that your group has maintained throughout all the debates on this law that have taken place in this House. Your amendments are neither urgent nor important because, if not, it is not explained that they have been tabled out of time. But I add one more nuance, your amendments are not serious either. I'll tell you what's serious. At the moment, what is serious is that we are already working in the Commission to repeal and put an end to an unjust law that has removed the voice and rights of citizens. Neither urgent nor important nor serious, he understands, therefore, that my group is not going to support his amendments. I will focus on what you propose. My group considers that serious, what is really important at the moment is to put an end to a law whose fund has more social control than guarantee over the free expression and protection of citizens' rights, and this statement is not free, this affirmation is endorsed by the 540 daily sanctions that, under this law, have occurred during the year 2016; the trials that have been held by trade unionists for participating in strikes - by the way, the last one held in June - or the report of the Ombudsman, in which they describe as unjustified enough sanctions imposed in application of this law. I cannot accept, as you have said here and as you have shown in your text, the equivalences that make this or any other law passed in this Parliament with laws passed in non-democratic periods of our history. There can be no legal vacuum, Your Honor, nor can there be laws at this political moment that do not come from consensus and agreement. Our proposal seeks to ensure the coexistence of citizens, prevent the commission of crimes and faults, the eradication of violence and the peaceful use of public roads and spaces, but above all it seeks to protect the free exercise of rights and freedoms. Tell me if you don't agree with this. All this is important, and to this your amendment, Your Honor, does not bring anything new. But you also do not bring anything new about what must be urgent at this political juncture in which we are. We differ from you in essential points of your amendment. We cannot understand its purpose of turning the State Security Forces and Bodies into a sort of social mediator, ignoring that it is they who must guarantee security and law enforcement. [[The lady]] When you refer to infringements, you make a serious mistake. The Security Act should not be a space in which the sanctions of members of the State Security Forces and Corpses should be taken into account when they are exceeded in their duties, the Security Act should be a space in which the powers of the State Security Forces and Corpses to maintain or restore security are included. And following the violations, it has not shaken your pulse to apply cuts on a good number of behaviors that we consider essential to improve the safety of citizens. With your proposal, you leave the State Security Forces and Bodies with no power to act against conduct that violates or may violate citizen security in a number of private spaces. These are some examples of why we are going to vote against the amendment you are proposing. I'm done. On the subject of the intervention you have made, it seems that during this time you have experienced a parallel reality, at least in what my group has done regarding the Security Act. We have accompanied the words with the facts, we have been consistent in all our interventions and loyal to what we believe should be the defence of democratic principles; we have proposed to the Government the withdrawal of the law and we have worked towards the creation of a parliamentary majority that would generate the necessary mechanisms to make a new text. We have developed a unconstitutionality appeal - indeed, endorsed with the support of several groups - and we have drafted a bill to advance its repeal. That's what my group has done. The urgent thing, Your Honor, is to start work on the Committee on the Interior as soon as possible so that, with the contributions of all groups, we can have a new law in which we are all reflected. The accessory is what you have done today, Your Honor; the accessory is to present an amendment to the whole when all the proposals you have made today could have been put forward within the Commission and in the paper that must start working as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada Pariente. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Martín-Toledano Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with three statements that it is important to bear in mind. There has been a debate here and some groups insist on falsehood and lies. Spain is a rule of law, Spain is a Western democracy that respects human rights. The Citizens' Security Act is a law that can be approved by all Europeans. It may have some flaw that can be corrected and the People's Group is prepared to talk about it, to correct it and to seek consensus in a policy that has to be state-owned. Today, absolutely intolerable statements have been made about the coup that is taking place in Catalonia and I want to transfer from my group the support to the mayors and councillors who are respecting the law and are being harassed; the support to the State Security Forces and Bodies - the National Police and the Civil Guard - who are complying with and enforcing the law, as is their obligation, and who are also being harassed; to the officials and also to the judges and prosecutors, who are being disqualified. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an amendment to the whole of Bildu - from Bildu! - which tells us that human rights, ideological freedom and freedom of the press must be respected. But, ladies and gentlemen, you know what its origin is, you tried to impose on the Basque country a regime of terror socializing terrorism and fear to expel almost 500,000 Basques from their land. You persecuted those who differed in their opinion, those who wanted to appear on electoral lists by the Socialist Party, the People's Party or the Navarro People's Union. That's what you've done. And now they bring us an absolutely incredible proposal, a proposal according to which the Law on Citizen Security would not be applied to children under the age of eighteen. What do you want, a juvenile kale borroka like the one you've protected? [[Applauds]] You want the veracity of state security corps statements to be non-prevalence; you want it to be impossible to register or identify anyone who has not committed a previous crime. Do you hear, at airports, in the media or at stadium entrances, will you not be able to register anyone who can carry a bomb? You're crazy; what you're proposing is crazy and you can't accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, here are two proposals for legislation in progress. They're antagonistic and it's legal nonsense; let's hope we can conjugate them. The People's Party wants consensus with the Basque Nationalist Party, which makes a reform proposal that we consider exaggerated but that we can discuss, and I am sure that with the Socialist Party and with Citizens we will be able to build logical consensus. The Citizens' Security Act, ladies and gentlemen, gathered suggestions from the State Security Forces and Bodies, which continue to defend the law. Don't confuse them, because sometimes they meet with the State Security Forces and Corpses and promise them everything, but at the same time they want to deprive them of their rights. Bildu's proposal criminalizes the security forces. His theory is that prison officials, State Security Forces and Corpses and justice officials are torturers, freedom-prosecutors, etc. They're criminalized and put on a target. That is Bildu's policy, that has always been the abertzale left, which is an ideological mixture of communism and nationalist fascism, ladies and gentlemen. It's truly unfortunate. There are groups, such as Podemos, who talk about the Law gags and that freedom of demonstration is prevented. Hey, at Rajoy's investiture, people who you sheltered and insulted deputies and threw objects at them, even cans, came to the door of Congress. Is that the freedom you defend? You promoted illegal demonstrations yesterday night without authorization, have tried to pressure the rule of law and have called for rebellion. There are groups here that are not democrats, who only want democracy as an instrument for the assault on heaven or for a coup d'état in Catalonia. That's what you're defending. If you came to power, you would implement a regime like that of your Venezuelan paradise, a pseudo-democracy. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America]] Yes, yes, you applaud, but the hemeroteca points to you. Pablo Iglesias on Venezuelan television: What envy you give me, we should export your Venezuelan democracy to southern Europe. [[Several Members: Yes, yes.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party]] They applaud, applaud, but you are the ones who defend the security forces of the Venezuelan State, who suppress demonstrations at gunpoint, killing demonstrators. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party We can-In Comú Ponde-En Marea]] Give it up, give it up. I'm sure if you guys ruled I couldn't be here today expressing myself freely. Since we are democrats, we are defending freedom and democracy and we are going to agree on a law on citizen security that is respectful, as it is. I have not heard them criticise the Portuguese Government's measure. Do you know what the Portuguese Government has approved, the one that sets an example? It has approved that security cameras on the public street may listen to private conversations without judicial authorization. [[Rumors]] Why don't you report it? Or the Greek police of his friend Tsipras, who dissolves demonstrations at blows? [[Rumors]] I know that your paradise is Cuba, that your paradise is Venezuela, that your paradise is Iran, but our paradise is Spanish democracy, and you applaud what you want, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and to the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party We can-in Comú Podemos-in Marea.- Various Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: Very well!- Various Members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party We can-in Comú Podemos-in Marea: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Martin-Toledano.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u33	The next item is the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on party use in the Ministry of the Interior under the mandate of Minister Fernández Díaz of the personnel, means and resources of the Department and the State Security Forces and Bodies for political purposes. For the presentation of the opinion, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u34	Thank you very much, President. As chairman of the Committee of Inquiry into Partisan Use in the Ministry of the Interior under the mandate of Minister Fernández Díez, it is up to me to present the opinion which has been delivered by this House for adoption, an opinion which you all know, and I will therefore be brief in this institutional task which is my responsibility. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u35	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u36	As you all recall, this Committee of Inquiry was born of a series of delays and adverse circumstances, which added that its object was concerned by people and context who not only referred to a more or less close past, but were projected with real influence and dimension at the time of the development of the Commission's work, which together with the agreement that its work plan was agreed by the majority's criterion through the weighted vote resulted in a syncopated development of its activity which resulted in blockades of its activity, which were sometimes caused by the interaction of members of the Commission with the media. This was so that the three months initially established for the completion of your work had to be supplemented by an extension agreed by this plenary, which is not without controversy, as all of you will recall. That context surrounding the Commission's work and its purpose reaches even the moment full of complexities, tensions and uncertainties that we are experiencing right now. Words like Catalonia, corruption or political opponents bear witness, in my opinion, to what I am saying. All this obliges me in this institutional task, which I now hold as President of the Commission, to be extremely sluggish and prudent in presenting this opinion to the plenary of this House. It will be the parliamentary groups that will succeed me in taking the floor to which they belong, if they consider it so, to expound on the outline to make the debate live, democratic and profound, as Congressman Mardones Sevilla said a few years ago on a mission similar to my own now. Despite the vicissitudes that have affected the life and work of the Commission, the Commission has come to conclusions which I will read out, not without first expressing on behalf of the Commission its sincere thanks to all the services of the House: ushers, administrative staff, stenographers, staff of the press department and to the lawyers Mercedes and Piedad, who have accompanied us and helped us. I would also like to thank the Commission as a whole: spokespersons, members of the Bureau and other members of the Committee. I also take this opportunity to apologize to all of you for the mistakes I may have made in the performance of my duties. They were never malicious. I shall conclude by reading the conclusions, which are the fruit of the Commission's work, which were agreed in the majority and which are as follows. First. The Commission of Inquiry wishes to state that at no time has its task been to assess the constitutional and commendable work of the State Security Forces and Corpses, which, in a very large majority, have been carried out for the sake of citizenship and the fight against crime. Second. The documentary information requested by the Commission of Inquiry had had a different response, but it should be made clear that the information requested from the Government had been met with impunity and incompletely. The documentation has been submitted so that it has not been fully available in an essential manner for the appearances of the former Minister of the Interior and the former Director-General of the Police. Third, in the Ministry of the Interior, under the mandate of Mr Fernández Díaz, using the catalogue of jobs fraudulently, a police structure was created under the instructions of Mr Cosidó Gutiérrez, by order of the DAO Eugenio Pino, with the consent and knowledge of the minister, intended to hinder the investigation of corruption scandals affecting the People's Party and the follow-up, investigation and, where appropriate, persecution of political opponents. For example: PSOE, as demonstrated by the creation and work carried out by the BARC; Catalan nationalism, Mr Trias, or Podemos, reports PISA. Fourthly, these decisions have led to an unacceptable partisan use of the forces, means and resources of the Department of the Interior and of the State Security Forces and Bodies, with an abuse of power that violates the essential rules of democracy and the rule of law. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u37	Thank you very much. For the defence of individual votes, I have the floor in the first place, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u38	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is worth remembering, first of all, that today's parliamentary arithmetic in this house allows us to commissions such as this that in other autonomous communities with different majorities or non-aggression pacts between parties that support certain governments never open up. Therefore, the first thing to denounce is that ethic of the straw in the eye of others and the beam in itself, because the very same ones who today sentence, without having been credited any punishable conduct, the guilt of some political leaders, the same ones, where they have responsibility, neither facilitate nor request nor collaborate, nor denounce or help to know attitudes that involve flagrant crimes; that is, when they are of their own. What about the Commission's conclusions? For, beyond conclusions, they do not cease to be assessments, because to believe has not been credited any conduct that has a political reproach; it is more a desire and I cannot. [[Rumors]] I understand that some say that the Commission's objective was not aimed at all the State Security Forces and Bodies, it is true, and I understand that some groups say that the information is not enough, because it is never so for those who have a judgment or prejudice about certain conducts and always concentrates on them, but the proof of the weakness of the conclusions is that 'if': A structure was set up, if... The's' is when you don't know who or how or when or why. [[Rumors]] Very weak, as I say. More than conclusions are assessments. And it is true that the Commission cannot judge criminal conduct...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u39	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u40	Although political responsibility is judged, it must at least be evidence-based, which has not occurred in this case. It is funny how some justify what the conclusions say: Although there is not enough evidence to prove it, it is obvious that there should be a political police within the Ministry of the Interior who were working to prevent the commission of a crime that these same accusers are preparing in Catalonia. Finally, something should have been done by the Ministry of the Interior to prevent that crime and, therefore, that would be proof that it was actually doing so and illegally. You don't have a pass, ladies and gentlemen. When Ms. Esperanza Aguirre arrived at the first Council of Ministers, some of her colleagues should have said the following: Welcome, you're already a big fighter. For that, of course, what some have tried with great voluntariness and some bad arts has been to receive that person with a true hunt, but neither the direction nor the objective is at their disposal today, fortunately for all. I'm done. A Forges joke runs online - I suppose it will be yours - where two people walk and one of them tells the other: There are days when freedom is called Civil Guard. And the other answers, "Well, let's see if we all find out." [[Applauds]] I believe that the period in which former Minister Jorge Fernández was present had much more lights than the shadows that some of you intend to impute, and I say this because I know some of them personally and I am of course aware of their honesty and their ability to serve. Finally, Madam President, I would like to reiterate once again my group's support for the Government in the face of the institutional blow that some, with such irresponsibility, are leading in Catalonia and my thanks to the State Security Forces and Corpses, prosecutors and judges for preventing the breakdown of the unity of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel i Valenti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u42	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by thanking all those people who, both inside and outside the Commission, have tried to make sense by giving light to one of the darkest stages of Spanish democracy. In that regard, I would like to express special thanks to the journalists Carlos Enrique Bayo and Patricia López, who from the outside have committed themselves to freedom, democracy and justice and have allowed us to draw some interesting conclusions from this Commission. Some wanted this Commission to be left with nothing, some wanted it to be for a long time, and finally I think it has been for a long time. What this House is going to put to the vote today are the conclusions of a Commission which states that, under the mandate of Minister Fernández Díaz in the Ministry of the Interior, a partisan use was made of the institution. What is being voted on is whether under the Minister's mandate human, technical and economic resources were used to harm the political rivals of the People's Party, and unfortunately, as you, gentlemen of the People's Party, have degraded democracy and justice to levels that have never been seen, this is the closest thing you will have as an act of justice to gentlemen such as Xavier Trias, Artur Mas or Mr Iglesias. In recent months we have seen how some minister has approached what is happening in Catalonia as a coup d'état or a coup d'état to democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that you, your Government, the Government of the People's Party, is not the typical government that buys ballot boxes to organize a coup d'état, you are not that kind of government, but tell me one thing, ladies and gentlemen, with these conclusions on the table, you, who have tried to alter electoral results with lies and defamations; you, who have a prosecutor's office that tunes things up to you; you, who have trusted prosecutors; you, who destroy health systems; you, who have bought media; you, who threaten business leaders and journalists... [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u43	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u44	... You who abuse authority, ladies and gentlemen, how dare you call us coups? How dare you? They should be ashamed of themselves. [[Applauds]] The question that comes to my mind, ladies and gentlemen, is whether it is not that you, who have as your founder a minister of a coup government, but a coup d'état of the real, that you beats no one. That is the question that we must ask ourselves today in this House, ladies and gentlemen, because it is good enough to lie and it is good enough to defame! [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up, President. Often one finds perfectly expressed in the words of others what he means, they are words in Catalan and I will say them gradually so that they understand them well. It's a poem by Salvador Espriu. [[Mr Martín-Toledano Suárez speaks words that are not perceived]] Then we'll dance something if you want, Mr. Toledo, then we'll dance something. Says - I tell you slowly so that you understand - so: 'It is not wise to say the name / of the one who thinks of us beyond our por. / If we touch the eyelids / with this strange cec, /... where is it in the void and in the non-res / will we use our life? / We will try to lift up in the smile / the pearls of our dreams / and learn this humble lesson / at the length of all the time of fatigue, / because we are only so free to fight / for the last victor in England. / Listen, Sepharad: men can't be / if they're not free. / Let Sepharad know that we can never be / if we're not free. / And I shouted the voice of all the people: 'Amen.' [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we just want to vote for Catalonia's political future and you are trying to break down Catalonia from Spain emotionally, and that is serious. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with what has happened in the last few hours in Catalonia, I wish you all the political misery that you have been sowing in Catalonia in recent months. Thank you very much and never. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, as some of you were not when I recalled just an hour ago that we all have an obligation to comply with Rule 102.1 of the Rules of Procedure, I remind you once again that we must respect each other in this House, because we represent all the Spaniards. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Following the completion of the Commission's work, the Basque Parliamentary Group concludes, first, by endorsing the assessment which has been made by different sources of the prosecutor's office at the meetings held on 2 and 16 October 2014 and which include a partisan use of the institutions under the responsibility of the ministry or the Minister of the Interior, Mr Jorge Fernández Díaz, and the head of the Anti-Fraud Agency of Catalonia. Under the guise of a natural and necessary framework of collaboration, what was taking place was an exchange of ideas and political strategies to affect politically a certain sector of sovereignist ideology, demonstrating the intention of the interlocutors to promote forward-looking research on certain people by simply making their political attachment, insisting on the need to submit them to a thorough investigation in search of something that would enable them to question their honorability and thus affect their political agenda. Secondly, the confusing genesis of these meetings in terms of their ultimate end, the hazy role played by each of the participants in their promotion, the vacuum that happens to them, at least so far, in what is known and the amnesia and serious contradictions when the memory arises between the main actors who apparently promoted them and their direct protagonists reinforce the initial impression that we are faced with the perverse use of institutions for political purposes, which is intended to hide under the appearance of a normal functioning of inter-institutional collaboration and which then does not manifest itself at any time. We note the clear will of all the participants to show their remoteness, their remoteness with what was dealt with in the meetings and with the meetings themselves, declaring themselves to be mere transmitters of other intentions which in some cases consider as the last petitioner to the minister and in others to Mr De Alfonso, and in the case of the latter two, denying also all validity to its content because they consider it manipulated, not having reliable guarantees and being obtained by illicit means, although certainly not mediating complaint on this point by those affected. Moreover - and it is to highlight it - the director of the police absolutely denies, contrary to what expressed by his immediate subordinate, knowledge of the meetings until their publication in the media. Third. We endorse the report of the General Judicial Police Commission on what has been dealt with at these meetings between the Minister and the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, in the sense that, although it is not possible to determine a priori, since it does not have the original support or recording or the entire recording, whether it has been able to be manipulated or not, in principle and as regards the fragments examined there seems to be no evidence in this regard, without prejudice to the fact that some transcripts provided by the publication do not literally coincide with the corresponding audio files. Fourth. We believe that the forward-looking investigations and the opening of a general case against certain persons for their political apprehension were sometimes accompanied by a clear intention, both by the Minister and by the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, to pressure - even in a coordinated way - different bodies and officials of the public prosecutor's office to encourage them to investigate or deter them from the filing of the cases brought to them by their services. In addition, from this desire to pressure the prosecutor's office and its materialization through irregular procedural channels to politically harm a certain sector of sovereignist ideology, there is concrete evidence during the term of office of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Jorge Fernández Díaz, already from the beginning, as denounced by the State Attorney General. Fifth. We note that on a recurrent basis police information has appeared, almost always in the same media, concerning investigations into matters the conduct of which was the responsibility of the police under the control of the Minister of the Interior and which affected leaders belonging to a sector of independent ideology or of another nature, such as the one promoted by the United States We may, without, on many occasions, being able to materialize in specific complaints before the prosecution or the corresponding body, and come to speak out against in connection with any of these proceedings complaints against the police or some of its officials. A good example of this is the so-called screenplay of a supposed millionaire account of the mayor of Barcelona, don Xavier Trias. Another example of what has been presented is the so-called PISA reports or the screens of the accounts of the PujolFerrusola family, and it is also worth noting the publication of some witness statements, obtained - they say - by blackmail, outside police headquarters and not ratified before any judge afterwards. Finally, we cannot fail to recall, and less so today, that a Commissioner - as he has said, although not before this Commission - in his day provided photographs from the files of the national identity documents of thirty-three members of the judicial career destined in Catalonia and in favour of holding a citizen consultation with other police officials with authority who so requested and that these photographs appeared later in a newspaper of state coverage. Sixth. We consider that in certain cases, such as the so-called PISA reports, the opacity of its material authorship and of whose order it was for its realization, in addition to the veracity of its own content, is evident. None of the participants has provided complete and consistent information on these extremes and, rather, with their oblivions, silences and manifestations of ignorance of something that was organically very close to them, they have increased the suspicion that their purpose was exclusively to harm the political project of the leaders covered by the report. Seventh. We echo judicial cases currently under way concerning police information containing evidence against persons linked to a certain sector of sovereignist ideology and their families who have been denied access because their lawful origin or chain of custody could not be determined, with police officers coming to court to say that there was a secret hard drive that had access to three persons and that sensitive information was being poured into an office of the Deputy Operational Directorate of the Police, which was being obtained from different confidential sources and was then being distributed to different judicial procedures. The above-mentioned coadjuva that collects letter of nature the suspicion that with regard to certain political opponents information was obtained without following judicial proceedings and that then it was attempted in a tortuous way...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u47	Mr. Legarda, you've spent a minute and a half, I beg you to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u48	I'm finishing up, Madam President. ...introduce various judicial proceedings against them. All the above considerations lead us to support the existence in the Ministry of the Interior of an intention to act against political opponents. In short, we consider the political responsibility of the former Interior Minister, Mr Jorge Fernández Díaz, and the Director General of the Police throughout this chain of irregular circumstances that have marked his mandate with the fine intention of politically affecting certain political leaders. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u49	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u50	Compañeras and compañeros, compañeros and compañeros, I ask you to share with us our solidarity with our fellow detainees. Freedom detained, freedom detained; freedom Josep María Jové, freedom Lluís Salvadó, freedom David Franco, freedom David Palanca, freedom Josuè Sallant, freedom Xavier Puig, freedom Joan Manuel Gómez, freedom Francesc Sutrias, freedom Joan Ignasi Sánchez, freedom Natalia Garriga, freedom Josep Masoliver, freedom Mercè Martínez, freedom Rosa María Rodríguez...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u51	One second, Mr. Tardà. Mr Tardà I recalled just a few minutes ago the fulfillment of Article 102.1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u52	Freedom and solidarity. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, stood up, and ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u53	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u54	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that there are some who decide to leave the Chamber only when they are interested: sometimes yes, sometimes no; now yes, now I want to come and say a few things, now I want to go. They are in your right, of course, but we are also in our right to blame you, because here either you are or you are not. And, Mr. Tardà, I'll tell you one thing, I don't know anyone who, for the sake of law enforcement, is arrested, anyone. [[Applauds]] Those who do not comply with the law, those who stop, so I have no fear, in compliance with the law, of being taken anywhere. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been seen that what has been intended with this Committee of Inquiry is nothing more than to manipulate it for an absolutely partisan interest. It is true that the Ministry of the Interior made a partisan use of the services, of the assets of the ministry itself, but it is no less true that there are groups in this House that have made a partisan use of a Commission of Inquiry, and that is not acceptable in democracy if what really matters is to investigate and know what has happened. Partisan use is as much what the members of the People's Party have done with the Ministry of the Interior as you, Mr de Esquerra, Mr de Convergence and Mr de Podemos, have done with this Committee of Inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to abstain in this vote, as we did when the opinion was read and orchestrated within the Commission itself, because we believe that there has been no conclusive evidence of the existence of that political, police and political police brigade as it was called. What we have found has been a clear discharge of duties by the officials of the Ministry of the Interior, clear and great, a lack of control over what they were doing in the Ministry of the Interior and, ultimately, a very clear political and administrative incompetence of the Minister and the Director General of the Police at that time, Mr. Cosidó, by not controlling what their subordinates were doing. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said in our conclusions, the Ministry of the Interior, led by Mr Fernández Díaz, will never pass into history by the good diligence of its officials, who, on the basis of what emerges from the work, were unable to know what was going on there. However, the results of this Commission's work will not be passed on in history either, for we believe that they have been unclear and lacking conclusive evidence, which is usually the case when a partisan use is made of the Commission of Inquiry. Nor will the fair play deployed over the past few months pass into history, as some of the participants in the Commission wanted to use it for more partisan than research purposes, as I have already said. Some spokesmen showed in their speeches a total absence of parliamentary courtesy and, in the same way, some representatives of the Commission showed a lack of respect for this unacceptable House. There is no need to name names, but if something was reprehensible during these works it was the attitude of some former senior officials of the ministry who, testing the good faith of the Commission, challenged the evidence and the limits of credibility by pretending to make us believe that they knew nothing about what was happening at the doors of their offices, that they did not hear anything, that they did nothing and that they were practically not even there. The Commission of Inquiry was born with delays and adverse circumstances due to lack of documentation and institutional collaboration. It should be stressed: there was a great deal of lack of institutional collaboration. After what has been seen and heard in this Commission, we cannot deny that it is possible to use the ministry for partisan purposes to control or attack political opponents, to condition and mediatize the action of the courts in cases of corruption involving the leaders and local and autonomous governments of the People's Party. But one thing is the evidence and another is the evidence, ladies and gentlemen, and in this case little or nothing has been proved from these works. In other words, there is no conclusive evidence that demonstrates the use of public resources and material and human resources for party purposes. It is true and well known that listenings were made in the minister's office. No one knows how they were made, no one knows how they came into the hands of a means of communication, not even who made them, and yet there is no complaint in the State Attorney's Office. This is a curious fact if we also take into account that the office is that of the Minister of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, incompetence, incompetence of superlative magnitude, which we also consider to be extremely serious when it comes to the ministry we are talking about. However, ladies and gentlemen, this incompetence cannot tarnish the professionalism and commitment of our State Security Forces and Bodies, despite the nullity of the management capacity of their superiors. They were above their leaders, in particular Mr Fernández Díaz and Mr Cosidó; they are no longer part of the current government and, therefore, we cannot demand political responsibilities, but we do make them political responsible for their inactions and for the management carried out under the leadership of the ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, in these four months of work we have tried to maintain a level playing field. We have tried to maintain the balance and wisdom between those who wanted to hide everything, deny everything and applaud everything, despite solid evidence that something smelled rotten in the Ministry of the Interior of Fernández Díaz, and those who were willing to open up a general cause not only against the previous interior dome but also against the State Security Forces and Bodies. We have tried to adhere to the mandate of this House, the object for which the Commission was created and the parliamentary control work to which we owe ourselves as an opposition party. As I said at the beginning, this has not been the best of the commissions of inquiry. We would have liked less hindrances and more sincerity on the part of those who have sat as comparators, more respect for what this House means, but prolonging this work only to keep uselessly the show of some that we have just seen - by the way, just a few minutes ago - by giving them a window that is not won by effective parliamentary work, makes no sense. The citizens of this country are owed institutions at their service that administer and manage not only effectively, but also with full respect for the democratic rules of the rule of law, which some do not understand or know what it means. Democratic rule of the rule of law means law enforcement, Mr Tardà, law enforcement. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs Montero Gil has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u56	Thank you, President. Let's start with the Spanish Constitution, article 21: 'The right to peaceful and unarmed assembly is recognized. The exercise of this right will not require prior authorization.' Every time you talk about illegal demonstrations you show that you are anti-democratic, but at least Mr Martín-Toledano, you know and respect the Constitution of this country. [[Applauds]] At least that. On behalf of my parliamentary group, I would like to begin by honouring, as point 1 of the conclusions, the thousands of men and women who are part of the State Security Forces and Bodies, affirming that my parliamentary group wants them to work in conditions worthy of which you, when in the Government, do not guarantee them; affirming that we want to pursue their corrupt and not people for their political ideas and affirming that those who stain their name - as has been credited in this Commission - by creating paramilitary structures that stain the name of the State Security Forces and Bodies of our country, are antipatriots, who are what you are, antipatriots. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] We also want to make it clear that this Commission should have continued to investigate because the whole truth has not been clarified and this has happened because neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party nor the Citizens have wanted to continue to clarify that truth. But it is very important that we understand what we are talking about here because this Committee of Inquiry has concluded that the Ministry of the Interior, under its command, has carried out investigations and assemblies, carried out by irregular and clandestine para-police structures that operate outside the justice system and outside the law, ladies and gentlemen, and whose aim is to carry out political intoxication tasks with the aim of interfering in electoral processes and intoxicating public opinion in order to curb political processes. You have been placed outside the law and beyond the rule of law and you hold in government those who live outside the law; those who live outside the law. [[Applauds]] According to Mr Fernández Díaz, the irregular and out-of-court PISA report was manufactured by some subordinate of police number two and you were so sluggish that you made two versions of the same report and filtered the two versions of the same report, which did not have a cat number or any type of mandatory identification in a rule of law. But not content with that, with that irregular illegal out-of-court report, you did a second assembly, that of the Euro Pacific Bank. There, Mr Villarejo and Mr Eugenio Pino, with you in command, fabricated a false proof of payment from the Venezuelan government to Pablo Iglesias in a supposed bank in a tax haven, whose falsehood the bank itself believed. You fabricated a false test against the opposition leader, against Pablo Iglesias. [[Noting the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group]] You, you. [[Applauds]] And see how curious it is that it is his number two police, Mr. Eugenio Pino, who goes to trial against Mr. Eduardo Inda, the pseudojournalist who leaks the information, to prove that Mr. Eduardo Inda's source was a police source; that is, that his number two recognizes that it is from the police where that false information comes from. And do you know how far his misery goes? You continue to make statements saying that this information was true, despite knowing that it was you who made it yourself. And do you know why Mr. Inda can say that it's true information, that is, that it really looked like it? Because his number two from the police, the one who had created the para-police structure and fabricated the false evidence, is the one who goes as a witness to the trial to believe that it is a police source who gives that information. [[Applauds]] Look, you know how dark, how much illegal, how much immoral, how much cloaca and how much rotten there is in all of this; and you know, ladies and gentlemen, to such an extent that, in order to keep the silence and silence in all of this, you have let Mr Fernández Díaz alone eat the whole weight of this matter, when in this Chamber we all know that he is not solely responsible for a political brigade in this country, a political police force to attack the political adversary. And the result of these operations has always been the same: to fabricate false evidence against Catalan politicians and also false evidence against my political formation; complaints that have ended won or filed, because you have fabricated false evidence to attack the political opponent and to try to interfere in public opinion and interfere in the elections of our country. [[Applauds]] I hope that this Commission would also have concluded the need to know whether these structures continue to operate, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the need to dismantle that para-police structure. But, look, in the time I have left I will tell you something: we and we know that we are living in critical, very difficult days in our country, with an unprecedented territorial crisis that you have deepened with an anti-democratic offensive that is allowing you to put at stake the fundamental rights and freedoms of all Spaniards and democracy throughout the Spanish state, and you are ascribed to the defence of the law and the rule of law. For whenever you are attributed the defense of the law and the rule of law, remember that you are responsible for using the Ministry of the Interior in a partisan manner to create a para-police structure that, using the money of all Spaniards, fabricates false evidence to attack the political adversary. Remember that you are responsible for a fiscal amnesty that has been declared unconstitutional, that is, outside the constitutional framework. [[Applauds]] Remember that you are responsible for failing to comply and that we have Spain with a complaint in the European Union for failing to comply with the quota of refugees. Remember that you are responsible - and the judges say - for having paid for your election campaigns with black money, ladies and gentlemen, with black money. Out of the law, ladies and gentlemen, out of the law. [[Applauds]] You relate to legality like water and oil that you can't even see. You are a danger to democracy in this country. [[Applauds]] You are experts in living outside the law and putting state institutions against all citizens, as we are seeing in Catalonia, even with the explicit rejection by this House of its way of acting in violation of the main democratic rights that exist in this country. [[Applauds]] They feel - and with this I finish, President - democratic shame, as the Vice-President of the Government said, absent today, democratic shame for having used the Ministry of the Interior in a partisan way to create a para-police structure, ignoring the catalogue of jobs, with the sole aim of fabricating false evidence against the political adversary, staining the name of the State Security Forces and Bodies. They feel democratic shame and, thus, they will feel the same as the Spanish feel, that the Spanish feel, that we love our homeland, when we see you do what you do. [[Several Members: Hala, Hala!-Rumores]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Left-In-Communication Podemos-En Marea stood up and applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u57	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u58	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. They will allow me, first of all, a little reflection. The Socialist Party, as it now establishes the most modern political science, could qualify itself as a State party; a party acting under the conviction that the State is based on very solid foundations from which its institutions regulate our coexistence. At a time when our coexistence is shattered by the Catalan independence movement acting outside the law, I believe it is necessary to embrace institutions and the rule of law more strongly than ever. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is the institutions that project the democratic exercise, they regulate our coexistence, and they have to work well to make this coexistence useful and peaceful. And we know that social credit in institutions is in their capacity to generate membership and the contentment of citizenship; it needs to be useful and effective. To achieve this utility and effectiveness there are many ways, but I can assure you that all of them need to come from the arm of the legal system; without legal order there is no way. That is why you will always find the Socialist Party there. [[Applauds]] Now, when I was preparing this speech, I was wondering if it was appropriate to talk this morning about what we are talking about, and I think doing so is the best tribute to democracy. Indeed, it was a Commission that concluded its work at the end of July, following the mandate of the same plenary in September 2016, which was set up in March 2017. They will allow me to describe this Commission as rare, but above all I would like to emphasise one point. This Tuesday we heard the spokesman of the People's Group - the words are still echoing in this Chamber - saying that in democracy no one, no one, has the privilege of complying with the laws at their convenience, and he also said that in democracy there is no room for impunity either. Ladies and gentlemen, 'no one' and 'no one' is what we are talking about today. In this respect, the main conclusion reached by the Committee of Inquiry is precisely what they know and what we have already heard, but which, in short, means that there was an abusive exercise using job structures to hinder research and to obtain instruments with which to fight in the political area. He told them that it has been a rare Commission; it has been rare for the time of its constitution, for absolutely personal and considerable reasons; it has been rare for the qualification of the interveners - former Minister, former Director General of the Police, former DAO -; it has been rare for the conduct sometimes unattended by the ministerial department providing information, so much so that it has been elevated to a category; and it has been rare - why not say so - for the behaviour of some parliamentary groups obsessed with 'what about me'. But aside from these questions, I can assure you - not without certain eyes of unbelief - that at the end of July we reached conclusions which, from the point of view of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, have a great documentary basis, corroborated by the statements of the people who were required to declare and who come to establish those points which we have spoken of to a large extent. There has been talk of probative weakness - let me be simplistic -; I can assure you not. There is a rotundity in certain elements which are capable of condensing themselves in the proposals for conclusions which today, under Rule 52(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House, are brought in the form of an opinion for consideration by this plenary. They are absolutely sustained conclusions. The first one I have already said is that it is nothing more than a reference to something that has been obsessive, and I think that there are the sitting papers to make it clear. In our parliamentary group the police were never under suspicion, the security forces and bodies were never under suspicion; the one who was under suspicion was the action of the ministerial department with its minister at the head. That was intended to be a category of conclusion. Secondly, I will make a reference because there has been a position that, I insist, has not been all loyal to this Congress that was required. There have been requirements that have come late, requirements that have not had the necessary agility, have not allowed their study since they lacked any minimal systematization when they have not simply not been referred. It would be enough to cite and get lost in the examples - but I think everyone has the documentation and it would be enough to tire them out on an already tense morning - of where those abusive exercises are, which have determined the third conclusion and which is decisive for the opinion that is being submitted today. And it is that abusive exercise, it would be enough to read the job relationship to see how, for example, the chief of staff of the DAO, who is stationed in Santander, occupies the operational head of the National Audience, the operational head of the Royal House and expresses to us in a spontaneous way that he had no idea, that he has never been in Zarzuela and that he had no task, that his duties were purely protocolary and those that were established in the job relationship, that he was little more than ordering the agenda, etc. When he later displayed, in a dense interrogation, the content of his duties, we realized how many important things were going through his hand, from jihadist issues to many other issues that we have already heard here. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done and I'm not tired. I'd love to have a lot more minutes to talk about the BARC, but I think maybe you just have to see the jobs that are in some of the embassies today. Some journalist said that many of the embassies are planted with pine trees, referring to Eugenio Pino as DAO and as a destination. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, democracies suffer, all of them; they suffer storms, they suffer clouds and they suffer many temptations, but democracy is written in pages with straight lines, with lines and words indelible. And I can assure you that in the days, months and years to which the Committee of Inquiry has been subjected, its lines have been very crooked. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u59	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Rojas García.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. With the coming, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to defend our particular vote and to decline much of the opinion, whose resolutions 2a, 3a and 4a are improbable because after eleven months of the Commission of Inquiry it has been shown that there is no case because there has never been a partisan use of the Ministry of the Interior, there is not a single document to come and the five representatives have made it clear that the State Security Forces and Bodies have always served with respect to legality and the rule of law. There is no cause, ladies and gentlemen, because the five complaints and two complaints filed against Minister ERC, PDeCat and company were all filed by the Supreme Court. To make complaints they do believe in justice, when they fail to believe Lord Tardà, there is no one above the law; no one, no one is above the law. [[Applauds]] Without law there is no democracy, as simple as that and you know it. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that some have come here to rule on what they did not achieve in the courts. There is no political responsibility, who was a minister no longer is, they have already reproached him, they have already prevented his presidency in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, unjust and partisan punishment for a loyal public servant whose only aggravation has been aggravated by illegal recordings. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from illegals, the order in the Supreme Court's file calls the recordings fragmentary with obvious interruptions. However, during these eleven months, it has been assumed in this Commission that it was a supreme truth that came from illegal recordings. Explain to us why they have defended this when the Supreme Court has said otherwise. I'll give you an example, ladies and gentlemen. It has been perfectly investigated in the Commission after all this time that when the digital newspaper put in the minister's mouth: 'This the prosecutor's office tunes it to you', the minister actually said: 'This, the prosecutor's office... Anyway...' That is proven and yet they have continued to keep it and staining the name of a person. [[Laughter]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is just one example. The opinion they are going to support contains resolutions that are just against the documentary part and what the representatives have stated and, moreover, are the same conclusions that they had eleven months ago when the Committee of Inquiry started and that we have already told them - and, unfortunately, we have rightly said - that they were preconceived. They had no use for parliamentary debate, documentary debate or appearances because they already had the preconceived conclusions, because this Commission was to try to destroy once again the image of the People's Party, to go without proof, without documents, without anything, to destroy the political adversary who wins them the elections. That is the summary of the Commission of Inquiry. The documentary has been exhaustive, thousands of leaflets received by the Commission. For example, the Anti-Fraud Office in Catalonia was asked for a document of 1639 pages concerning the cases that are mentioned in the talks between the Minister and Mr De Alfonso, from which it is concluded that the files to which the talks relate have been handled correctly by the office. Where was the problem? Another example, when reference was made to Health, was not about the National Health System, but about irregular awards that were even the subject of a Commission of Inquiry in the Parliament of Catalonia. Or an irregular recruitment by the Generalitat denounced by the Workers' Commissions and published by the SER chain in 2012. Mrs Montero, no crime was made, it was made clear that there is no impunity with a Government of the People's Party. [[Mrs. Montero Gil: That's not true]] The appearances have been unanimous, the five representatives who made statements in the Commission, and who had a legal obligation to tell the truth, denied direct questions on this issue: the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office: I have never felt pressured; Mr Fernández Díaz: There was no political will specifically to investigate any political formation; Mr Cosidó: We have made a more professional police, Mr Campo, and the reduction of 60% of the posts of free designation is the test of cotton; Mr Pino, Commissioner: There was never political-partisan instruction; the chief inspector, Mr Fuentes Gago: I was doing the work entrusted under strict legality. It is clear that here there has never been a political police with the People's Party; what there has been is a good government and a good minister. [[Applauds]] So, ladies and gentlemen, why have we come all this way? Why do we have this debate today? Well, it is possible that some have thought that the best defence is a good attack, Mrs Montero, and have tried to conceal the signs of their illegal financing by countries that are undemocratic or undemocratic in denouncing those who were investigating illegal acts. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Mrs Montero, ask Mr Monedero or ask Mr Iglesias how much he has paid. Also ask Mr. Iglesias for the secret meeting with Mr. Roures. [[Laughter]] Mrs. Montero, less crispness and more transparency. [[Laughter and applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Left-In-Communication Podemos-En Marea]] I repeat, less crispness and more transparency. [[Applause from the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] Others wanted to stifle the 3% investigation of corruption, masking it in the wake, victimism and contempt for the law and the rule of law. That is why I am so interested in extending this Commission as much as possible. The PDECAT and Esquerra have wanted to be in this Commission, ladies and gentlemen, adeides of transparency and good governance when we are seeing them break the laws or destroy democracy in the Catalan Parliament. Look, there is a paradox that while in this Commission they were asking for more appearances, in the Parliament of Catalonia they were holding the appearance of the former senator, Mr Vidal, of the Republican Left who presumed to be doing illegal acts and closed that Commission in the Parliament of Catalonia at the same time. You have to have guts and courage to say that, but the bad, ladies and gentlemen, the bad and the coward. I would like to thank my colleagues, Mr Toledo and Mr Francisco Molinero, for their work in this Commission, as well as the chairman of the Commission, Mr Legarda, with whom we have had some other refirrafe, but I would like to thank him, Mr Campo and Mr Miguel Gutierrez for the tone they have maintained these months, and especially all the groups for their parliamentary courtesy in setting the date of Mr Fernández Díaz's appearance, who, as you know, was convalescent to a health problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I finish as we did in the Commission. After these months, we see how the false concept of the political police has become a rubric, behind which a very damaging speech has been made for the National Police and our institutions. We have a special responsibility as public representatives to ensure the honour of all those people who are working for our safety and I believe that this has been lacking here in some debates and in some people in this Committee. Police officers have been summoned here for their names and surnames, accusing them without any foundation and causing terrible damage to their careers that they themselves know every day. The rule of law, full submission to the judicial authority of judges and prosecutors with basic criteria that have always pursued any action of the National Police. The People's Group defends the cleanliness of the institution and the great service that they do every day to the rule of law, as my colleague, the spokesman for the Interior, Mr Toledo, said earlier in his speech. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I finish and do so as we did in the Commission, appealing to serenity, to common sense, to the work done according to the comparators and the documents, which say that there is no case here, because it is true, there is no case. There was a good government, ladies and gentlemen; there is a good government with the People's Party. What there really is - it has been verified - are fragmentary recordings of almost three years ago, brought to light four days before a decisive general election - let us not forget this - that no one has mentioned and no spokesman has criticized here. Four days before a decisive election. If there is anything, ladies and gentlemen, it is a partisan use and this one resides in illegal recordings and what was intended with them. He lives in their manipulated transcription, lives outside context and exists in the harassment and unjust destruction of an extraordinary person, who has served his country in the best way he knew how to do so, Mr. Fernández Díaz, with honor, dignity and honesty. This group will always recognize you. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group.- Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u61	Thank you very much. The vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats; the vote will begin. We voted for the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group into the policies of the Ministry of Development aimed at preventing and addressing the phenomenon of 'opupation'. It was voted on in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 161 against, 157 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u63	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - Motion for an urgent interpellation between the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and the United States of America on the guarantee of information security in RTVE. [[File number 173/000044]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u64	We then vote on the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the guarantee of informational independence in Spanish Broadcasting. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 196 against, 129 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u65	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u66	We now turn to the proposed law amending Law 17/2006 of 5 June on State Ownership Radio and Television to restore the independence of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. There is going to be a separate vote on the amendments; they know that time is being shortened, and I therefore ask you to be careful. Amendments to the preamble. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 130 against, 82 abstentions, 121.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u67	They're approved. Amendment to the single Article, paragraph 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 301 against, 1 abstention, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u68	It's approved. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 2, as regards the amendment of article 11.1 of Law 17/2006. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 324 against, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u69	It's approved. Amendment to the single Article, paragraph 2, with regard to the amendment of Article 11.2 of Law 17/2006. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 129 against, 1 abstention, 203.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u70	It's approved. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 2, as regards the amendment of article 11.3 of Law 17/2006. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes; 204 against; 129 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u71	It's rejected. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 2, as regards the amendment of the final paragraph 'in a first vote or three fifths in the second' of Article 11.4 of Law 17/ 2016. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes; 195 against; 138 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u72	It's rejected. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 2, as regards the remainder of the amendment to article 11.4 of Law 17/2006. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 323 abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u73	It's approved. Amendment to the single Article, paragraph 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 259 abstentions, 74.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u74	It's approved. Amendment to the first transitional provision as regards the first subparagraph of paragraph 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 324 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u75	It's approved. Amendment to the first transitional provision with regard to the deletion of the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 thereof. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 1 against, 198 abstentions, 134.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u76	It's rejected. Amendment to the first transitional provision with regard to the deletion of paragraph 2 thereof. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 323 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u77	It's approved. Amendment to the second transitional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 219 against, 1 abstention, 113.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u78	It's approved. Amendment to transitional provision 3 (new). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 130 against, 105 abstentions, 97.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u79	It's approved. Rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 251 abstentions, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u80	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u81	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the Proposal for an Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security and the repeal of the Organic Law 4/2015 of 30 March on the Protection of Citizens' Security, presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 plus 2 telematics votes, 335; 11; 252; abstentions, 70 plus 2 telematics votes, 72.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u82	It's rejected. - PROPOSAL FOR AN ORGANIZATIONAL LAW ON THE REFORM OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 4/2015 OF 30 MARCH, ON THE PROTECTION OF CITIZEN SECURITY. [[File number 122/000062]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u83	Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the Proposal for an Organic Law amending the Organic Law 4/2015 of 30 March 2015 on the Protection of Citizens' Security, submitted by the Joint Parliamentary Group, also Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 plus 2 telematics votes, 335; in favour, 22; against, 249; abstentions, 62 plus 2 telematics votes, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u84	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u85	We will now vote on the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on party use in the Ministry of the Interior, under the mandate of Minister Fernández Díaz, of the personnel, means and resources of the department and of the State Security Forces and Bodies for political purposes. Voting on individual votes. Firstly, particular vote No 7 by the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 82 against, 250 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u86	It's rejected. Private vote No. 1 of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 80 against, 246 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u87	It's rejected. Private vote No. 5, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 82 against, 251.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u88	It's rejected. Private vote No. 3, of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 32 against, 301.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u89	It's rejected. Private vote number 2, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 82 against, 249 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u90	It's rejected. Special vote No 6 by the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 85 against, 247 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u91	It's rejected. Particular vote number 4, of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 131 against, 202.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u92	It's rejected. Vote on the opinion. Firstly, the vote on point II.1 of the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes; 333 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u93	It was adopted. Rest of the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 172 against, 132 abstentions, 29.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-21-CD170921.u94	It was adopted. The meeting rose. [[Applauds]] It was eleven and forty-five minutes in the morning.
