ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Question addressed to the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Mr Don Francesc Xavier Domènech Sampere, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, is the Government planning to open a bilateral negotiation with the new Government of the Generalitat which emerged from the forthcoming elections on 21 December?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u3	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Domènech, this government believes that the priority of the next government must be to restore confidence in Catalonia and for Catalonia, to reverse the enormous social fracture that has been created and the profound economic damage that has caused independence. Let no one have the slightest doubt that if we have an interlocutor within the law this government will do everything possible to recover a good social climate and a good trust for the improvement of the economy and social welfare in Catalonia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Domènech, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u6	I specifically asked you to resume bilateral relations between that new Government of the Generalitat and the Government of the State, because, accept it at once, you in Catalonia have long lost. They failed at the same time that they had to use force because for years they have not used politics, they have only been able to impose, they have never been able to convince. They haven't solved anything, absolutely nothing, it's more, they've made everything worse. They have set us on a loop, because you feed on the confrontation against independence, which allows you not to talk about all your failures no longer just in Catalonia but also in Spain. Because what do you propose, beyond the Aznar solution? A government of citizens with your support and the support of the Socialist Party? Beyond the commitments to the PSOE in exchange for the 155, which are wet paper, which lead to commissions and commitments of nothingness, what do you propose? They haven't proposed anything for years. We know what we are proposing, we propose that it be the Government elected after 21 December that bilaterality be restored, that concept which you have destroyed so much and which is absolutely basic for dialogue and negotiation. Why can the Basque quota be negotiated bilaterally and relations with Catalonia not? Why does the Navarro Improvement Act - and you know it perfectly well - have to be negotiated bilaterally - both its approval and its amendment - and with Catalonia we cannot practice this bilaterality? Why has the bilateral Commission on Relations between the Government of the State and the Government of the Generalitat since 2011 -2011, with all that has rained - without meeting? And who was elected president in 2011? Mariano Rajoy. Why so many things? According to a survey by the CEO, 42% of the new independenceists in Catalonia are directly responsible for their government actions and their declaration. You are the problem, with you there would not have been either the Suárez-Tarradellas pact, with you there would not be - because there is not - nor the Transition. And now what are they going to advocate, the Aznar solution? Catalonia will answer them, the 21st see you there. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u7	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Domènech, I see that you are coming here and you are going to be here until the end campaigning for independence, because that is what comes to bring every Wednesday to this House, secondary independence, which is to support all the electoral proposals made by the independenceists. First you joined the referendum, came here to demand guarantees and eventually called for mobilisation for that referendum. Then you have come to this House to ask for what you call political prisoners, even if your group no longer defends it and even has had to draw their attention to the Central Electoral Board. Therefore, if you come to campaign here you better respect the institutional neutrality in campaign from your own institutions as the City of Barcelona. And now you come to ask for bilaterality but, as always, you are late because Marta Rovira and Marta Pascal have already asked for it. Its electoral programme resembles rather the defence letter of the independenceists before the Supreme Court. Mr. Domènech, all you have to do is accept 155. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Yes, Mr. Domènech, it's all you need to be exactly like them. Now he comes to ask for bilaterality. Bilaterality for a referendum? Yes, Mr. Domènech, bilaterality for a referendum is what you ask for, to return to the exit box again? And he asks for even a pact of clarity. It is better for you to apply it to them, to take a clear test in Podemos, to see if you are clear between Mr. Iglesias, between Mrs. Bescansa, between the silent Errejón and yourself; Mr. Domènech, to see if you are clear. Because there is one thing that is very striking, you have had to go with an election program saying that we have a lot in common with the commons; it will be with the independenceists, who copy the posters. And do you know what we and you should have in common for dialogue? Do you know what we should have in common? Legality, Mr Domènech, because with your question you have shown me, when political parties rely on legality they can agree with this government... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u9	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN MERITXELL BATET LAMANA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: IS THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS WITH THE DEVELOPMENT OF GOVERNMENT AGREEMENTS Satisfied? [[File number 180/00476]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u10	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, silence, if not, will not continue the monitoring session. Question by Mrs Meritxell Batet Lamaña from the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u11	Thank you, President. Minister, are you satisfied with the development of your Government's agreements with Citizens?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u13	Thank you, Madam President. The president of the government, Don Mariano Rajoy, said in his investiture that Spain needed a government that was in a position to govern and not to be governed. That is what we are doing in this first year of the legislature: to promote political action and seek the support of other forces, and obviously first of all of the forces that have supported the candidacy for the Presidency of the Government, as is the case with Citizens. Frankly, in the first year of the legislature we have been able to develop the agreements that gave rise to the investiture and we have also been able to carry forward the main government projects that are best suited to all Spaniards at the moment. The first of them the General Budgets of the State for 2017 and the first of its steps, the spending ceiling, also had the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We can also cite the State Contracts Act, the Self-Government Act... A whole series of laws that we have been able to develop since the agreements. I invite all of you to continue not only to develop a government programme agreed before the start of the legislature, but to reach agreements, as required by the political situation, so that we can put into practice the economic policies that support economic recovery and job creation in Spain. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u14	Thank you very much. Mrs. Batet, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u15	Thank you, Madam President. The two of you are filled with sense of state, pact of state and unity of Spain, but in the end everything ends up with a lot of frugru and little mirinhaque, Minister. Let's do a review. First, autonomous funding. They have been non-compliance for four years and Mr Rivera is only interested in the funding of Navarra and Euskadi. Second, education. Much talk of an educational pact, but in recent weeks we have attended a competition between the two of you, PP and Citizens, to see who was more re-centralizing and who was more critical of the Catalan education system. Third, cheers. Much talk about asymmetries, but then the support to the 2018 State General Budgets is not conditioned to end the cuts, to end the copays, to invest more in social policies. Fourth, R & D. Here I have just one fact: 300 million less than in the last socialist budget. These are just four examples of the many I could put in order to make a real contribution with policies to social cohesion, to make a real contribution to the unity of Spain and to make a real contribution to the future of our country. Mr Montoro, you may be more or less satisfied with these agreements with Citizens, but the truth is that the only thing that has contributed Citizens to your unjust policies has been to be anti. Anti-independenceist, great!, but no alternative project. Anti-decentralisation, but without investment in social policies. Basque anti-concert, but no autonomous funding system. Minister and Mr Rivera, being anti is not patriotic. Being anti does not mean having a sense of state, because Spain now needs more social cohesion and more territorial cohesion. Spain needs a future project and you do not offer it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u16	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u17	Thank you, Madam President. After listening to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's criticism of whether or not we comply with agreements with other parliamentary partners, I can only say that I do not know what you call a sense of state. We are clear that we are betting on Spain and, therefore, we are against the independenceists; that we are betting on Spain in prosperity and with job creation that will enable us to reach levels of employment that we have never met in our country; that we are betting on a European Spain, and that is really betting on that Spain; and that we are betting on a Spain of social cohesion and calling for the House's coincidence so that we can all put forward a system of autonomous financing that ensures that all citizens have equal access to education, health and social benefits, in addition to guaranteeing pensions for the future. That's what I'm inviting... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u18	Thank you very much, Minister. - DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER FOR EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: WHEN THE GOVERNMENT THINKS TO IMPLEMENT THE APPOINTMENT OF A NEW PRESIDENT OF RTVE BY THROUGH THE PROCEDURE ARRANGED IN THE LAST REFORM OF LAW 17/2006, OF 5 JUNE, OF RADIO AND TELEVISION OF STATE TITULARITY? [[File number 180/00473]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u19	Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u20	Thank you very much, President. After this staging of hostilities of bipartisanism, we still have a suspicion, and it is that when you leave here you meet, among other things, to appoint the Board of Directors of Spanish Broadcasting behind the backs of others and ignoring the regulations that have recently been adopted in this solemn house. But I will ask you more formally, Minister: When does the government intend to promote the appointment of the new president of Spanish Broadcasting through the procedure recently approved in this House? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u21	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u22	Thank you, Madam President. The truth, Mr Girauta, is that if something is clear in this legislature, it is that bipartisanism has little to do. [[Laughter.-Applause from the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]] Indeed, we have not been able to draw a law based on the two parties; that is, we have never coincided in a vote only the Socialist Party and the People's Party. We have always had the support of others, and I believe that this is a great advantage in a legislature of these characteristics and that it could solve many of Spain's territorial - also political - balances. What I encourage is that we should be constructive throughout a legislature of these characteristics. On the other hand, the Government has very little to say, not to do but very little to say, in the procedure proposed by his lordship this morning, since the new Spanish Broadcasting Act is in force. This law sets the time limit of three months for the Courts and, therefore, it is here the political parties represented in Congress that give rise to the procedure of election of the board of directors and, from that board of directors, to the new president of Spanish Radiotelevision. The Government, of course, will comply with the law, will comply with the most scrupulous neutrality and, in that regard, I believe that we are all going to encourage us to have fully independent public means of interference from the Government. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u23	Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u24	In fact, I give you the reason that bipartisanism already has little to do, what happens is that there are inertias and we, just in case and from time to time, give a little push to get people out of certain old and expired practices. In the media it has begun to speculate with names, which would be the result of these agreements in the dark or behind closed doors. I do not give them for good or bad, what I do know is that Spanish Radio Television has to recover, as the law obliges, as what has been approved here obliges, its political neutrality, that it lacks; its quality, that it lacks; and its independence, that it lacks. And to guarantee that, here was approved a form of election of the members of the board of directors that passes through here and through the Senate - it passes through Congress, which approves six members, and through the Senate, which approves four - with public hearing and with two thirds of the members of the Legislature. Therefore, like that, which is the approved model, depends on the adoption in turn of a regulation and the regulation has a deadline of three months to be adopted, we, in case the flies, have anticipated a model regulation for the rest of the groups to tell us what they think. But we do not get any answers, and just in case we want to warn you that we will not accept closed agreements or appointments between the two old parties. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u25	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u26	Thank you, President. This of bipartisanism, whether it works or not, is that it is a question of parliamentary arithmetic. We've been in this situation for a year, and so we add, subtract... This is clear; we have not passed any laws here based on classical bipartisanism, to understand ourselves. We are in a new political situation and, therefore, we are all acting in that political situation. Having said that, from there I don't know what negotiations... The Government has the limitation and, therefore, the one that governs it by law. In this sense, what we aspire to is that we all have a positive attitude so that we can implement and develop this new Spanish Broadcasting Act. But I also want to insist that Spanish Radio Television is already independent, it is already plural and already has great rigour in its contents, as they show... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED ARTEMI RALLO LOMBARTE, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP THAT FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE WATER OF VIOLENT ACTIVITIES OF FURTHER GROUPS OF EXTERNAL RIGHT? [[File number 180/00479]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u28	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. First of all, a question by Mr Artemi Rallo Lombarte, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u29	Thank you, President. Minister: 24 September, Zaragoza, demonstration of the far right against legitimate representatives of citizens; 9 October, attacks on the streets of Valencia, intimidation of the Vice President of the Council; 12 October, Barcelona, maximum street violence; 17 November, Madrid, fascist parade on Genoa Street; 21 November, Madrid, municipal police exchanging messages of exaltation to racism, violence and Nazism. Minister, it is clear that the far right has been emboldened in recent times. It is clear that the ultranationalism that some encourage has brought fascists to the streets. And in these, the Government limits its actions to the inevitable police interventions. Do you think that is a sufficient response from the government? Does the Government have any plans to address this threat to our peaceful coexistence? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u30	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u31	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the Government is extremely concerned about any increase in violent attitudes coming from wherever they come from, from extreme right-wing groups or from extreme left-wing groups. You, by the question you ask, seem to be only concerned with those coming from extreme right-wing groups. [[Rumors]] It's according to what you just asked me!
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u32	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u33	But remain calm, both you and your group; all I tell you, Your Honor, is that you do not worry because the obligation of the Ministry of the Interior is to act against any kind of increase in violence. In the ministry we have established as one of the priority axes of action the unwavering defense of vulnerable groups. It is a priority for us, within all the groups we have, to defend personal security. In recent years, we have been working intensively, both from a normative and a formative point of view, to combat the hate crimes and violence of radical groups. That's where we are. Already in 2014 a protocol of action was signed by the State Security Forces and Bodies, and there is no doubt that we will continue to strengthen the investigations of these facts come from the radical groups from where they come, because we must have zero tolerance against radicality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Rallo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u35	Vulnerable groups, minister! You've been prepared for another answer! We were talking about defending democracy. Unfortunately, it gives the impression that the Government has opted for an obviously low profile in the face of this threat. That's a serious mistake. A democratic society must be belligerent in defending individual rights, democratic values and institutions. Look, it is striking, and your answer proves it, that the European right, call itself Macron or Merkel, do not hesitate to denounce fascism; and it is striking that you do not dare to raise your voice, because you do not raise your voice against the extreme right. The Socialist Parliamentary Group calls on the Government to condemn unequivocally and forcefully and to put an effective strategy to stop this far-right escalation; neither indifference nor neutrality, Minister. On the contrary, militancy and democratic commitment. Do not let the Government down in trivializing this risk, do not encourage the Government or its party or its flattering exclusive speeches. Minister, fascism is the worst that has happened to Europe and Spain over the 20th century and it is a threat that still persists today. I insist, minister, neither indifference nor neutrality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u36	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u37	Your Honor, zero tolerance against radicality, I insist, comes from wherever it comes from, and we will not consent to any kind of radicality in our nation. You're going to let me give you official data, because I think it's part of the wrong premise, I don't know where it comes from. Now I'll explain it to you because there are some specific matters. The objective data deny that this radicality from the far right has increased markedly. According to data from the first half of 2016 in relation to the first half of 2017, the facts committed by the extreme right have decreased. Also, as of 2017, three new extreme right-wing groups have been detected, while six new extreme left-wing groups have been detected. [[Rumors]] Your Honor, it's objective data. I understand that there have been specific events in Valencia and Catalonia, but the actions of the State Security Forces and Bodies have been as they have to be, responsible. It's... it's... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY HAVE YOU RECALLED IN THE ARCHIDONE CENTRE TO PERSONS WHO DO NOT HAVE THE CONDITION OF DETAINED, PRESS OR PENED? [[File number 180/00480]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u39	Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia Díaz, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, why have people who are not prisoners, prisoners or detainees been detained at the Archidona Prison Centre? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u41	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u42	Thank you, President. We have done so in response to an exceptional situation because in just three days it has been more than a thousand immigrants who have arrived at our shores, so we have had to adopt interim measures of an extraordinary nature, such as enabling that centre that was not yet opened to intern those foreigners, something provided for in the legal order. As you know or should know, Archidona is a newly built center and has better conditions than any other CIE - because this is established by Spanish and European regulations - where those people who have arrived illegally entering Spain can enter. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u44	Minister, more than 500 immigrants arrived on the coast of Murcia ten days ago. Until the 17th of November, 14 577 arrived in Andalusia, the triple that in the same period of the previous year. Since 2012, arrivals have increased by 338 %, what has your government done in six years to prevent massive arrivals? Why have they not sat down and negotiated with the countries of origin, in this case Algeria, to find a solution? Why has he not asked for the European Union's cooperation or assistance? Because this is a problem in southern Europe. Why has it not put in place a coordination plan with communities and municipalities to address a problem that was to come, which will go further and in which they have done nothing? Well, yes, it has, putting six hundred immigrants in a prison who have not committed any crime, thereby violating the Aliens Act, the regulations of the CIEs that you adopted in 2014, the Constitutional Court's ruling, and European and international human rights legislation. Archidona is a prison and I don't say it, says the BOE on March 18, 2017. [[Applauds]] A prison that was completed in 2013 and which has been set numerous opening dates, the last: fourth quarter of 2017, which they have not met. A prison that has no drinking water and in which children have been detained - as reported by NGOs - where there is no cleaning, adequate health care is lacking and where the number of national police officers is insufficient and you know it. Its management is therefore simply harmful. Solve the massive arrival because, otherwise, our country will have a very serious problem in the short term. We do not want camps or prisons with immigrants; we do not want them, Minister. We demand dignified and decent attention because they have not committed any crimes. Minister, my father was an immigrant, he had to run away from misery, like so many Spaniards. That is why it seems to me indecent that in the 21st century we put immigrants in jail because it seems to me to be a genuine barbarity. Minister, your management, the management of your government is barbaric, illegal and indecent. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u45	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u46	Thank you. As much as you shout and because of many circumstances you want to allude to and claim, I will tell you that the situation in which these immigrants are there is perfectly legal and lawful. It is recognised by European legislation, it is recognised by Spanish legislation, it has been established by seven judges and it has also been endorsed by the High Prosecutor's Office of the Court of Andalusia. That's what there is. You've ended up saying you don't want jails, but that's not working like a jail. One thing is the project, but it is working as a center because they are living in the same conditions and with better guarantees than they have in any internment center. [[Rumors]] I am drawn to the attention that you, when you ruled it was those who built five of the seven CIEs, you who had to suffer the crisis of the cayucos in which you locked up immigrants who had come to barracks that were abandoned, you who locked them up in police stations, you who locked them up in camps now come to say this. What do you want in the face of pressure like this? [[Applauds.-Protests]] We continue to work in coordination with all African countries and we will continue to do so, but what do you want us to do with those people? Do we leave them on the street? We are working, we have sought a solution and, I insist, it is not a prison, you are in better conditions than any other IEC you have put into operation. [[Applauds]] - OF MR MIKEL LEGARDA URIARTE, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT ARE HIS PROVISIONS REGARDING THE MARTUTENE CARD? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00474]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u47	Question by Mr Mikel Legarda Uriarte, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u48	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Minister. I ask you what your predictions are about Martutene prison because, as you know, it is one of the oldest prisons in use and, therefore, with severe structural and functional deficiencies and with one of the highest occupancy rates in Spain. We believe that we can say without exaggeration that it is an obsolescent and saturated center. Minister, the prison situation in Martutene is very serious and the most serious thing is that this is not coming from now. In 2005 and later, in 2011 you and the City of San Sebastián approached the transfer of that centre because they said that because of their shortcomings the fulfilment of the purposes of re-education and reintegration of sentences was in question. You were the ones who said this, twelve years ago, in 2005; we now simply remember it and add that the situation has deteriorated greatly. On the other hand, the neighbourhood where the prison is located is undergoing a profound urban and residential transformation in the first phase; it has been increased by six metres to prevent flooding and more than eight hundred homes are being built. The prison remains, literally, like an obsolete island in the middle of a completely new-planted neighborhood and, in addition, a sunken island; all around it has increased in height to avoid flooding. Meanwhile, phase II of the neighborhood's regeneration, which represents another three hundred and fifty housing units, is still pending the release of the prison. Minister, it is in your hands to put an end to the serious damage that this centre represents for workers and prisoners and it is also in your hand to allow the full urban regeneration of the neighborhood where it is located, allowing the expansion of San Sebastián which, as you know, has very little physical possibility of doing so. Finally, it is also in the hands of the Government to which it belongs to allow Basque institutions to exercise, thirty-eight years later, their powers in prison matters. Minister, we are confident that we will see significant progress in the near future. We believe that what we put to you is reasonable and reasoned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u49	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u50	Thank you, President. Mr. Legarda, you're very right when you say that it dates back to 2005 the date when we started talking about the need to build a new prison and end the center of Martutene. It's a matter that, as you have detailed well, has been going on for a long time. It had already been incorporated in 2005 into the relationship between the centres that should disappear and another should be built; since that year, since 2005, there had been various revisions to the plan, but it had always been maintained and the situation had never changed. You have also spoken about the protocol signed in 2005 between the ministry and the city council, which is where it is already agreed for the first time that a new prison should be built and that it should be in the Zubieta area. It's true that it's necessary. Why? Because the center of Martutene is a very old, obsolete center, it has many deficiencies and it is not reasonable that in the middle of the 21st century the inmates, depending on the prison where they are located, can enjoy facilities of the 21st century or, on the contrary, have to suffer the deficiencies of a center like that of Martutene, which is the oldest we have in Spain. In 2011, a new agreement was signed which already provided for the obligations of each of the parties, both the San Sebastián City Council and the Ministry of the Interior. Problems have arisen both in the field, in the classification of the plot, as well as within the same project. As you know, all that has been the plan to build the slope and then be able to build the prison has just been tendered. However, the president of SIEP has in the coming days a meeting with the mayor of San Sebastián, of Donostia, in order to be able to advance in this line. I also say that I think it is time that we could sit down and perhaps clear the situation because we believe it is essential that the city can develop in that area. Perhaps, without the need to build the new prison, we may be able to release the land and close the prison in Martutene. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u51	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. IONE BELARRA URTEAGA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN IN COMMUNITY WE CAN IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT MEASURES DO YOU THINK TO TAKE THE GOVERNMENT TO GUARANTEE THAT THE EXTREMENES AND EXTREMENES CAN TRAVEL IN A THREE DYNG WITH COMPETITIVE TIMES TO THE REST OF THE COMMONS OF OUR COUNTRY? [[File number 180/00470]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u52	Question by Mrs Ione Belarra Urteaga, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u53	Thank you, President. Minister, it's 11:30 in the morning of September 8, 2017. The train from Cáceres makes its entrance into the station of Atocha and from it Paco, Regula, with the Girl Girl on shoulders, and behind, Snows, Quirce and, of course, also Nazarías with its beautiful milana on the shoulder. The rest of the travelers contemplate the scene astonishment and wonder what the protagonists of the innocent saints do in Atocha in the middle of 2017. Well, denounce 19th century railway infrastructure without electrification, more typical of the time of the novel delibes than ours. So, tell us, Minister, what your government intends to do so that the extremists finally have a decent train that connects them with other autonomous communities or with Portugal and that is in competitive times. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u54	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u55	Madam President, thank you. Mrs Belarus, what we are thinking of doing is what we are doing, giving the greatest impetus ever given to railway infrastructure, with an investment close to €3880 million to meet the commitment to complete the works on the extreme stretch in the summer of 2019, being fully electrified in 2020. From there, get an hour and a half savings on the Badajoz-Madrid route. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u57	Thank you. Minister, you're running out of excuses, you're getting tight because you've been in government for more than six years, more than enough time to put a solution on the table for extremists and extremists to have a decent train. It is only now that extremist citizenship has made us vibrate with the best spirit of the 15-M by organizing on platforms such as the 'Beautiful Mile', or overflowing mobilizations, such as that of November 18, when you have had to react and have shielded yourselves behind great promises and behind many pages of argument paid with public money of all and all that you have published in the local press, but you have not put on the table a single fact and everything today remains the same. [[Shows a press clipping]] The journey to Madrid-Badajoz continues in five and a half hours, assuming that there are no breakdowns, which only between July and August of this year were more than thirty. You have also found an invaluable collaborator in Mr Fernández Vara, who, trying to take over the mobilizations by a worthy train, has been primarily responsible for dismantling the northern railway network of Extremadura. It is a classic, to which we are already accustomed by the People's Party and the Socialist Party, of day ticks and agreements at night. Frankly, everything is going to change now that at last the village of Extremadura has risen because Extremadura is entitled to a train of high benefits that connects it from north to south, from east to west, and also with Portugal and with Madrid; it is entitled to a train that allows it to move goods and that allows it, moreover, a public and social train that can pay the people; a train, in the end, minister, that is worthy, at the height of the extremists and extremists because it is not law of life, not... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u58	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u59	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Belarra. With all due respect to the world, you have a deep ignorance of what we are doing in Extremadura. I don't know how many times you've visited Extremadura; I've done it at least four times to explain with absolute transparency what we're doing. [[Applauds]] We are working on the section between Toledo and Oropesa with an investment of 1120 million euros and we will now award in December the informative study. In the section between Oropesa and Plasencia we have a section already executed of platform, another section in execution; two of the projects we are processing for their bidding and three for technological linkage we will award them in very little time. In the Plasencia to Badajoz stretch you say that nothing is being done. Go and you will be able to check how the road between Cáceres and Mérida has already been stretched, how we are on the road between Mérida and Badajoz, and we will end in March; month in which, by the way, we will approve the project for the extension of the double road between Plasencia and Cáceres, with an investment of about 1470 million euros for this stretch, 850 for the section between Oropesa and Plasencia. In addition, we are also improving rail services, because in this same month of December the installation of the technical equipment for the arrangement of the trains begins, as is also being worked on in the workshop in Badajoz. And from 1 March a new Talgo train will come into operation to do that service, whose tickets can be purchased in December. They're facts; come on, check it out, as I've had the opportunity to do. I will invite you the next time you go, and you will check how all these works are being carried out, because it is something recognized by society and also by the railway tables, with which I personally met with the presence of the trade unions and the different political groups. It is not everything as you paint it, but, in any case, welcome to the bet on the train, because today will produce a very bad news for you, and it is that we will authorize on the board of ADIF the bidding of the first section Peralta-Olite of the Navarro train, of the train to Pamplona; that to which your party precisely on your land is opposing with so much force. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause.-Ladies Belarra Urteaga and Montero Gil utter words that are not perceived]] - of Mr Javier Sánchez Serna, of the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America, we can all agree that Mr Javier Sánchez Serna, who forms the Minister for Education, Culture and Deportation, is ready to take over the Government in order to comply with the agreements of the State Education Pact, should this be adopted? [[File number 180/00469]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u60	Question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Question by Mr Javier Sánchez Serna, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u61	Thank you, President. Minister, our country's educational investment is well below the European average. If we measure it in terms of GDP, we see that in recent years we have gone from 5% to 4.1%, far from 6.2 of the European average. As you will agree with me that quality education needs sustainable funding, I ask you what budgetary commitment your Government is willing to make to achieve an educational pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u62	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Your Honor, in my appearance on 25 October in the Committee on Education in this House on the state of the social and political pact for education, I stated that the budgetary commitment will be due to the ambition of the content of the pact, that is, its content, duration and objectives; in this I am.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Sánchez Serna.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u65	The problem, Minister, is that your good intentions are, and very much so, in contrast to the stability programme you have just sent to Brussels, which commits an educational expenditure of only 3.7% by 2020. The truth is that, seeing these predictions, it is not known whether to keep his good wishes, his good words or the figures of his colleague, Mr Montoro. There is no doubt that since the implementation of article 135, the fall in educational investment has been a constant, a constant that has had disastrous consequences in educational institutions, especially in public institutions. We are talking about the deterioration of infrastructure, the increase in classroom ratios or the abolition of diversity programmes; measures, in addition to being far from exceptional, as you said, are being consolidated with each proposal for general budgets. And it is that beyond accounting savings, this government has taken advantage of budget constraints to change the educational model. You, in fact, apply a silent privatization that consists not in selling public schools but in emptying them as students, because with the cuts and budgets that defend the quality of the public and force families to choose the subsidized private; to that blackmail you usually call it freedom of choice. But going back to the subject, do you really think, Minister, that a pact with the educational community is possible without reversing the cuts, without strengthening the public network and with the budgetary forecasts made by your colleague, Mr Montoro? Because if you think that, maybe you're sinning with optimism and if you don't, maybe you're wasting our time. I think you are aware that an educational pact that wants to address the structural problems of our education system is not possible with these levels of investment. I would therefore ask you to speak to your colleague, Mr Montoro, and to stop this spiral of disinvestment at once, because without money, without investment, without increasing those budgets, the right to quality public education for all cannot be guaranteed. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u66	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u67	Your Honor, the question you ask me would force me to put the car in front of the oxen. It is logical that if we do not know what the pact will consist of, it will be very difficult to give it a figure. I have already said in this House on several occasions, and I repeat this today, that fixing GDP as a reference for educational expenditure is a mistake, because GDP is not a constant value over time but depends, as you know, on the economic cycle, and since the highest percentage of educational expenditure is carried out in the autonomous communities and there are such significant differences in the GDP of each region, we would have autonomous communities with different levels of educational expenditure. You know that of the nearly €48 billion of the 2017 education budget, 95% is in the hands of the autonomous communities. The correct reference should therefore be annual expenditure per pupil as a percentage of GDP per capita, where Spain is on average in OECD countries. Having said that, Your Honor, I have already said, I said it in the Senate in March, that if we come to an ambitious pact - and the Government wants an ambitious pact - we would have to incorporate two elements. The first element is to establish a super-qualified majority for its modification that could be perpetuated over time, because we believe that stability is what people demand for an educational pact. Secondly, a budgetary pact, because it is clear that the ambition of this educational pact cannot depend on the Government which is at every moment the front of the nation. Therefore, I have undertaken, Your Honor, if there is an educational pact - and, I insist, I want it to be - to make that budgetary pact established throughout the different budgets an element. And I would ask you, Your Honor, to be truly without any hesitation in that educational pact because the pact is the pact of all, the pact of the educational community, but also of the various parliamentary forces. Therefore, I would like you without any suspicion to be truly in that educational pact because I believe that is what Spain needs and what the educational community is asking us to do right now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u68	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT RESULTS HAS YOUR GOVERNMENT AGREEMENT WITH CITIZENS IN REDUCING LABOR PRECARIDATION? [[File number 180/00477]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u69	Question to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Question by Mr Marc Lamuà Estañol, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u70	Thank you. Minister, what has your government agreement with Citizens achieved in reducing job insecurity?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u71	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, although much remains to be done, there is no doubt that Spain is making progress every day with more and better jobs. Note that in 2017 we have reached for the first time in time the 19 million occupied in Spain, and we are also getting better jobs every day. That is why, as the third-quarter EPA points out, in the past year more indefinite than temporary contracts were signed, we have reached 75% of employees with stable contracts in our country and also, Your Honor, we have been forty-five consecutive months since the recovery with continuous increases in indefinite recruitment in Spain. Therefore, more stable employment and also more full-time employment because from the recovery all the jobs created in our country are full-time. In addition, Your Honor, we are making progress on equal opportunities and, as you know very well, this year we are also enjoying the fact that families and workers can better reconcile working and family life with an increase of two to four weeks in paternity leave. Therefore, adding jobs and adding better jobs every day. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Lamuà.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u74	Madam Minister, with regard to your fraudulent occupational trilerism that you already have used to - we know that that fraud is very PP, to be in B - we have told you many times that you cannot cut a decent job to turn it into four underemployments. Because we know that you like the numbers to match your triumphalistic account of employment, but after those numbers there are workers of flesh and bone whose labor dignity you take and cut to spread misery. That's the recipe you bring us all the time. And, of course, in Citizens you have found an ideal partner, more right-wing than you, you have fallen in love with Aznar and FAES, and also you do not have the discomfort of that PDECAT with which you agreed to labor reform and which has now become a bit independent, right? But where are, lords of Citizens and the PP, those famous measures of his covenant that had to put an end to temporality and that had to discourage dismissal? Where did they stay when yesterday we knew that Spain is at the forefront of inequality in Europe? Since the beginning of their pact, temporaryity has increased from 25% to 27.4% and partiality has also increased quarter after quarter. Do you know what doesn't go up, minister? What does not go up is the average gross salary and with you there is no danger that it will go up a lot because it goes down continuously. In addition, in Catalonia we are delighted with the results of its pact because temporality increases above average, partiality 2.9 points higher than in the rest of Spain, almost 17,000 partial contracts more and wages fall by more than 2.5%, almost twice as much as in the rest of the state. We thank Mr Rivera and the Citizens that Mrs Báñez's work scourge can strike more harshly and cruelly if it belongs to Catalonia. Mr. Rivera and Mr. Girauta are doing a lot of service to their land in Catalonia! [[Mr. Girauta Vidal: What a shame!]] Go now campaign to explain that you help sink into misery the workers. Because, Mrs. Báñez, you and Mr. Rivera are at work worthy in this country what Atila's horse was at grass: where they pass, nothing grows again. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, you forget that this government is negotiating with everyone, even with the Socialist Party. Notice, this year the interprofessional minimum wage has risen by 8% to improve the jobs of people with lower purchasing power. We've done that together. And we are negotiating with all the parliamentary groups, also with Citizens with whom we have 90 % of the parliamentary commitments in progress and also with all the autonomous communities so that every day in Spain there will be more and better jobs, Your Honor. We are respecting something you do not do: collective bargaining. Because the responsibility of trade unions and employers has made one thing possible in this country and it is that since the recovery there have been moderate gains of purchasing power every year, increasing the competitiveness of companies and, most importantly, the creation of 500 000 jobs per year. Because the horizon of this country is to reach the 20 million occupied in Spain and we will do it together, the Spanish society and the government, in 2019. You don't understand that because when you rule, you create 1500 daily stands. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. ANA MARIA SURRA SPADEA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: HOW MANY PERSONS CALCULATE THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT THAT WILL BE VICTIMS OF THE DURING CONSEQUENCES OF THE ENERGY POVERTY IN CATALUONE IS THIS INVERENCE? [[File number 180/00467]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u77	Question to the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. Question by Mrs Ana María Surra Spadea of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u78	How many people do the Spanish Government estimate to be victims of energy poverty in Catalonia this winter?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u79	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u80	Mrs. Surra, do you know how many people charge the social bonus in Catalonia, how many families receive it? Almost a quarter of a million people: 224,000. It is the social bonus that is in force, but we have a better one that was adopted with great consensus in this House, not with your group, but with great consensus in this House. For the first time this social bonus is determined on the basis of income and for the first time supports the social policy of autonomous communities and local corporations because it provides 50% of the funds that are within their competence. You did not want to participate in the social bonus, but the vast majority of the House yes and now we have a better social bonus, which will serve the families of Catalonia and Spain much better. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Surra Espadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u82	Minister, in Catalonia there are some 150,000 households affected by severe material poverty. They are suffering from the harsh consequences of energy poverty, which relates not only to the cold but also to food quality and physical and mental health. According to the European Economic Committee, energy poverty kills both physically and socially. Physically, about 7,000 people a year across the Spanish state. In the meantime, the bill for light continues to be increased because of an energy policy drafted by the five major oligopolies, where, oh by chance!, the former presidents and former ministers of the PP and the PSOE, companies that have won more than 40 billion euros since the start of the crisis, sit. Sensitized by this injustice, in Catalonia the Energy Poverty Table, the Catalan proposal for the social bonus and a law to address housing emergency and energy poverty were launched and an additional EUR 15 million was allocated to combat energy poverty. While we were doing all this in Catalonia, what has the Spanish Government done? Nothing; it has not even complied with the judgments of the European Courts of Justice and Human Rights. And what is worse, they have taken him to the Constitutional Court and suspended the decree-law against energy poverty, the Law on Housing Emergency, the Law against evictions, the creation of a basic guarantee income, the Law on the Tax on Empty Housing and the creation of the Catalan Social Protection Agency. That is, not only have they done nothing, but they have carried out everything that has been legislated since Catalonia to alleviate the situation of the most needy. And to liquidate our policy of benefit towards the people, they have also intervened the Generalitat and imprisoned Consteller Dolors Bassa, who was the driving force behind most of these laws. On 21 December the Catalans will have to choose with their vote a policy against energy poverty: that of 155, in favour of the electricity companies and the continuous increase in the price of energy, or that of the Republicans, of justice and social welfare. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u83	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u84	Mrs. Surra, you're not well informed. Article 6 of Law 24/2015, of the Parliament of Catalonia, on energy poverty, has not been resorted to, so document a little better before asking questions to the Government. It is not this House, the parliamentary groups that have approved the social bonus, which has opposed it precisely. A couple of days ago the Supreme Court admitted an appeal from an electric company and they're coming back on the social bonus again. I am not on the best terms with the electricity companies precisely for this reason, because this government has worked hard to get the first decree-law that was passed in this House, which was that of the social bonus, and then we have processed its regulations. For the first time we have an automatic system in which you can go to a marketer and you do not have to carry the rental declaration. This system is allowing more people to be targeted at the social bonus that was previously not entitled and according to their income, which was not before, and with a discount, if it is a person with very low income, of 40%. For the first time, it is energy policy that supports the policy of autonomous communities and local corporations, which have social policy. There are two things I don't understand about your formation. One, if you are independent, why do you want to refocus social energy policy in the Ministry of Energy when it comes to the autonomous communities and you should defend it? We support it with money, but social workers have it precisely by the autonomous communities. And two, they aspire to be the first political force in the upcoming elections. We'll see if it's true or not. There's a lot of middle-class people who vote and they don't like bills being left unpaid, which is what they're proposing. Traders and self-employed people pay their bills and we should respect that. You are proposing a system in which bills remain unpaid and of course that is not the general consensus of Spanish society. [[Applauds]] - of the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Government: what measures will the Government take to correct errors committed in research policies? [[File number 180/00481]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u85	Question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness. Question by Mr Ferran Bel Accensi, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u86	Thank you very much, President. Mr Minister, yesterday, the INE announced statistics on R & D activity and R & D expenditure in relation to GDP, which for 2016 in the Spanish State was 1.19% compared to 1.22% in 2015, compared to 1.35% in 2010 or 2.03 % of the European Union as a whole, i.e. 42% less than in the European Union as a whole. This is further compounded by a comparison of developments over the past six years. While in the European Union there has been an increase of ten percentage points, in the Spanish State the decrease has been sixteen percentage points. These figures also contrast with the budget that was approved a few months ago in this House between the People's Party and Citizens, where budgetary expenditure for 2017 on non-financial expenditure on civil research decreased by 2.6% compared to the 2016 budget. We have recently learned that different research centres had problems in renovating their workers. In fact, the National Center for Oncological Research has problems in renovating sixty-six people until 31 December, i.e. 15% of its staff, and the National Center for Cardiovascular Research fifty-two people until March, i.e. 13% of its staff. This is due to the application of the thirty-fourth additional provision of the Budget Act. Minister, do you intend to amend this legislation in the short term before the end of the year in order to make it possible to renew these contracts quickly and necessaryly? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u87	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. As you said, Your Honor, what the INE said yesterday was that it had increased spending in 2016 by 0.7% in science to 13,260 million, of which universities represent 27.5 % and administrations 18.5 %; slightly lower percentages. But we must bear in mind, Mr Bel - I suppose you are aware - that the year 2016 was especially complex, it was a year of government in office and we had to close the budget six months in advance. Although the weight has fallen in relation to GDP by three hundredths compared to 2015, this is largely a consequence of the strong growth of the Spanish economy in 2016. But if you look beyond the details of the data, you will see that the fall in R & D weight is largely due to the drop in weight in two autonomous communities, and you know what they are because they are perfectly clear in the INE document. Despite this, significant successes have been achieved in 2016. For example, the projects financed by the 2020 Strategy already account for EUR 2400 million, a total of 10%; business R & D expenditure has risen and represents 54%, still far from 66% of the countries in our environment; therefore, the effort is being made especially in public-private collaboration and Cedeti is dedicated especially to innovative enterprises. On the other hand, beyond what is spending, and I am sure that this too you have seen in the note of the INE, in human resources, which are the heart of the system, we are making a great effort both to expand and to improve their conditions. Thus, what the INE tells us is that the number of researchers in Spain has increased by more than 5000 people and in addition that four out of ten researchers are already women. On the other hand, we have taken an important step towards solving the problem of the temporality you were commenting on. In a recent decree-law of the Ministry of Employment, what we did was somehow guarantee such stability for researchers. In addition, I committed myself in the Senate - we ask for support from your group - and of course we will bring it, to stabilize all structural personnel. That is the effort we are going to make and we hope to have your support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u90	Minister, do you intend to do so before the end of the year?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u91	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u92	Of course we will try to do so before the end of the year and we are already looking for alternatives. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u93	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA SOLEDAD PEREZ DOMÍNGUEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHY HAVE THEY NOT APPROVED THE PLAN AGAINST THE CHILD POVERTY COMMITTED IN YOUR GOVERNMENT AGREEMENT? [[File number 180/00478]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u94	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by María Soledad Pérez Domínguez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, last week Citizens asked him about the implementation of the measures approved by this House to respond to the needs of Spanish families. As it is a matter of concern to my group and this Member personally, I was very careful. I thought you were going to ask him about the non-compliance with the implementation of the plan against child poverty agreed between you, for that commitment of EUR 1 billion you have signed; a plan that is already a plan of this House for the multitude of initiatives that we have put forward by the various groups, but no, the great problem for Citizens was shared custody. That is why today, Minister, I ask you why you have not approved the plan against child poverty committed in your government agreement and committed and requested by this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u96	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u97	President, Your Honor, I would like to begin by condemning and supporting the first secretary of the Bureau of Congress, Alicia Sánchez-Camacho, and all the women in this country who are and are victims of the macho violence at the hands of cowards who use the anonymity of the networks to attack us and to rape us as women. [[Applauds]] There is no violence in our society. Together, together, we will unmask these cowards. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, in the General Budgets of the State for 2017 we have dedicated 100 million euros to strengthening the basic benefits of social services; of them, 60 million, almost 25 million more than in 2016, are dedicated specifically to the program of family protection and care for child poverty. In the Government of Spain we are committed to child poverty and I was wrong to know that you said no to the 2017 budgets. Therefore, it was you who did not approve. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u98	Mrs. Pérez Dominguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u99	Thank you, Madam President. My solidarity also with the secretary of the Bureau - I did not know the subject - and my solidarity with all the women in this country who suffer harassment and violence continuously. [[Applauds]] Let us put into effect that plan that we also have in hand, that agreement and that pact against gender-based violence that came out of this House and that they also have to provide budgetary resources. [[Applauds]] You, Your Honor, are what you seem, you and your partners fill your mouth with beautiful speeches - a country, cohesion... - but when it comes to social policies against gender violence and that 1,300,000 children in this country at risk of poverty, then you cover up your shames with 60 million euros. Your Honor, I'm going to give it to you and you give it to the Minister of Finance later, because this is what they signed - page 41-: EUR 1 billion for 2017, and it's coming to an end 2017. [[Show a document]] And you come here to boast of giving 60 million euros in two payments as charity and charity to the autonomous communities? You do not have social policies, you are great partners when it comes to doing other things but not when it comes to providing social policies and saving people and this country. That is why, Minister, I demand that you comply with the agreements you have and your obligation to this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u100	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u101	Thank you, President. First of all, EUR 1 billion committed in the next five years to the State Pact against Gender Violence; and I will tell you more, EUR 100 million in the 2017 budget in child poverty. In 2014 we launched the programme for the protection of the family and care for child poverty. No one had set up such a programme in Spain before, not even you being in government for eight years. A programme which includes three very clear lines of action; first, financial aid for basic needs such as food, clothing or housing; second, aid to facilitate family work reconciliation; and third, aid to families to improve their basic skills and facilitate their coexistence. This program, in just three years, has multiplied by four its endowment, going from 16 million to 60 million, plus the 25 million, which is 100 million in total, and you said no to the budget. Therefore, do not come here to demagogy, because they do not really support attention to child poverty and families. More than 96 000 families and 260 000 people are estimated to have had access to this aid in 2016. I would also like to say that there are many skills transferred to the autonomous communities, and I would have to ask Andalusia, for example, to really invest and work for their families, because it is one of the autonomous communities that has the most poverty and least investment. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u102	Thank you very much. - QUESTION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO ROLDÁN MONÉS, IN SUPPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT OPINION DUE TO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE YOU LOST THE HEADING OF THE EUROPEAN MEDICINAL PRODUCT AGENCY FOR BARCELONA? [[EMA]] [[File number 180/00472]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u103	Question also addressed to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality of Mr Antonio Roldán Monés of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u104	Thank you, President. Minister, in your land and mine, Catalonia, since the unilateral declaration of independence, 2500 companies have moved their head office and 1000 have moved their head office, there has been a drop in tourism of 20%, internal consumption has fallen, there has been a collapse in the activity of retail trade that directly affects families, and among all the collateral damage there has been another, which is that of the European Medicines Agency, with extraordinary synergies and with a lot of potential jobs for Catalonia. Unfortunately, it has not been the only agency or opportunity we have missed in relation to Europe in recent times; we have also missed, for example, the EBA, the European Banking Agency. I wanted to ask you, Minister, how the Government intends to make a strategy to stop losing influence in international forums, agencies and institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u105	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u106	Thank you, President. As you know, the Government of Spain submitted a country candidacy, a winning candidacy to host the EMA in Barcelona. Not only did we say that, but the EMA workers themselves and the EMA themselves in their report put us among the top of the ranking. The Government of Spain worked hard, at 150 % of its possibilities, for the EMA to come to Barcelona. Spain's National Health System is one of the best; it's not just our patients, it's also beyond our borders. Our National Health System is a flagship of the brand Spain. Spain is one of the biggest European countries that believes in the common project of Europe, where in the last five years we have fulfilled all the efforts that Europe has asked of us. We therefore deserved the European Medicines Agency to come to Spain. We have really missed a historic opportunity, because it involved the creation of thousands of jobs, an increase in foreign investment, the opening of new centres for the production of medicines and the installation of new companies in Spain. But, above all, it was a great challenge and a great goal for the National Health System and its patients, because we would have had access to new therapies and participation in new clinical trials. I am sincere, I never blame the Government of Spain or all the Spaniards. Let's look at independence, which has divided us as a society, which has impoverished Catalan society and which has compromised Catalonia's future projects such as the EMA, such as the Mobile World Congress or so many other projects for Catalonia. The EMA project did what it did was to unite all administrations and all technical offices. The only way from the 21st of December is unity, because with unity we get further and it is when the most successes have had this great nation that is Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u108	Thank you, Minister. I was also asking about the EBA and, in general, about the government's strategy to gain international weight, because, as you say, we are a great European nation. We are the fourth nation in economic weight, but if we look at the main European institutions we see that in the Commission we have Juncker, who is Luxembourg; in the Council we have Tusk, who is Polish; in the Eurogroup we have Dijsselbloem, who is Dutch; we have three Italians in the European Central Bank; in the European Parliament we have Mogherini, as a high representative. And we can look beyond the United Nations, the IMF, the World Bank or NATO. I agree with you that separatism puts many sticks on the wheels, but it gives me the impression that this government also has a problem in the car, in the leadership structure to really defend Spain's interests abroad and that those interests correspond to the weight and leadership that this nation should have in Europe and in the world, which is where the main parties in globalization are going to play. I would like both your Government and the President and Mr Dastis to really represent that leadership outside, and I have the impression that it is not being so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u109	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u110	The Spanish Government is leading our Spanish policies in Europe. Just as I am the Minister of Health, we are one of the best national health systems in Europe. We are leaders, for example, in organ transplants, and Europe is copying our system and comes to look for our experts to mimic this system in their countries. Therefore, they consider us, value us and know that we are a great country. I want to say two things before I finish. First of all, I want to thank everyone for the work done to get the EMA to come to Spain, and secondly, I hope and wish that the loss of the EMA... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u111	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE VICE-President OF THE COMPLETION OF HER GOVERNMENT AGREEMENT WITH CITIZENS IN THE PARAGRAPH ON TRANSPARENCY, DEMOCRATIC REGENERATION AND FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION? [[File number 180/00475]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u112	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Firstly, a question from Mrs Adriana Lastra Fernández of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, just a year ago you signed a government agreement with Citizens with 150 measures, and my question is what balance you make of its compliance with transparency, democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u114	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u115	Thank you, President. Thank you very much for your interest in the state of health of the agreement we reached with Citizens for this legislature; a parliamentary agreement with four years ahead, and we have already had one. As for the block you are interested in, the regeneration block, I make a very quick balance; of the thirteen measures that may be stuck inside that block, seven of them I believe are already executed and six are in the process of execution. Therefore, in order to take 25% of the agreement's time, I think it is reasonably good.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lastra, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u117	Thank you, President. Minister, I am not worried about your agreement with Citizens, I am concerned about transparency policies. By the way, the Vice-President is very ironic in drawing up a question about her own management to the Prime Minister who was reprobated by this plenary in the history of Spain. The irony of the vice president does not cease to surprise us. The truth is that you do not come out very fulfilling in the agreement, not even in the measures of transparency or political and democratic regeneration. I'll give you an example. First, they are measures that do not need resources, simply political will; therefore, when they fail, what is clear and in evidence are precisely the unwillingness to comply with an agreement that was signed less than a year ago. They spoke and agreed to separate public offices charged with corruption. No one forced them, you agreed; however, there are the facts, for example what happened in Murcia with Pedro Antonio Sánchez, a president accused of corruption who was a month in office - had to present a motion of censure for him to leave him but was five more months of deputy -, which when he left it was because he wanted and what there was a letter from the People's Party thanking them for the services provided; a gentleman to whom they ask nine years of imprisonment for the Punic. In that agreement, they also agreed to eliminate the outbursts linked to public offices and did not even support in this House - and we return to Murcia - the elimination of outbursts in the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia. They signed to expand the mechanisms for verifying the status of public office assets, and their Government has not been able to publish property declarations for three years, claiming that there is a lack of regulatory development, which is, by the way, only attributable to you and your Government. They even signed that they were going to promote the creation of a parliamentary committee to investigate the alleged irregular funding of the People's Party and all they have done in recent months has been to try to torpedo it; those who have launched it have been the rest of the parliamentary groups in this House. They said you, more credibility and trust. No credibility or... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u118	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u119	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the interest in the development of the agreement between the People's Party and Citizens, and I am also glad that you have so much interest in matters that have to do with democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption because within the Committee on Justice we are preparing a national justice strategy, where your proposals will be very welcome, and a proposal for a law from the Citizens' Group is also being dealt with in this House, to which we are all making contributions, which have a lot to do with some matters such as those that your Lordship has raised. I am sure that you are very interested because since you have many cases of this nature, I am sure you want to strengthen yourself in the future, because I am sure that you are interested that there are no more Marea cases in Asturias, such as there have been, or that the former mayor of Alcalá de Guadaira will not commit crimes like those he committed again. I am sure that the Socialist Party really cares about regeneration policies. Welcome. They could have done so in the X Legislature, when we adopted in this House a good package of reform and anti-corruption measures and you were not present in any of them. You were asking me about the third block of that agreement. We're moving around it. Not a single pardon has been granted for crimes committed in the areas of corruption, gender-based violence, tax offences... Therefore, we are applying what we say we are going to do. We are providing all available means for the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and the National Court to better combat organized crime and crime. We are betting that the Office of Asset Recovery and Management has the means to get the corrupt back up to the last euro of what was stolen. So, let's do things. We are in the first year of the four for which the agreement was signed and, as I said, of the thirteen measures, at least six of them are already implemented, in my opinion. The agreement therefore enjoys good health. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u120	Thank you very much. - of Mrs. Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, we can in any way form the Minister of Justice: what criteria do you have in mind to use the Government to carry out the name of the new General Tax Office of the State? [[File number 180/00471]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u121	Question by Mrs Noelia Vera Ruíz-Herrera, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Catalá, what criterion has the Government used to choose who will be the new Attorney General of the State?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u123	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u124	Thank you, President. Those who establish the Constitution and the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, Your Honor. We have put in place a proposal so that a well-known jurist who meets the requirement of having more than fifteen years of experience in the world of law can be informed of his candidacy for the General Council of the Judiciary, then comes to this House and will finally be appointed by the king. Therefore, even if you are sometimes surprised by these things, application of the rules, as is the case with a rule of law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u126	Of course, Mr Catalá, the problem is that you rules apply them as you want. You have chosen the new Attorney General of the State in a completely opaque way, without consensus and toe, as you always do. It is true that you have to go through the validation of the General Council of the Judiciary, but you know that you only believe that you have fifteen years of experience. It is true that it has to come to the Committee on Justice, but it is not even here that we take the decor of being voted on, so it is already elected. And since he's already chosen and we know his precedents in choosing the judicial dome so that instead of persecuting the corrupt make their bed, we've been investigating who this Sanchez Melgar is and we've realized that oh by chance! While Moix was the lame friend of the corrupt Ignacio González, Sánchez Melgar is the friend of the prosecuted Ángel Acebes, who as you know is prosecuted for taking Bankia out of the bag. [[Applauds]] Look at what such a great coincidence - call us suspicious -, Sánchez Melgar presided over the Provincial Court of Avila just at the same time that Acebes was mayor of Avila, then passed to the Supreme Court, but it is that shortly afterwards they appointed Acebes Minister of Justice. I don't know, call us crazy, but I think any citizen might be a little restless. I'm going further, what has Sánchez Melgar done in recent years? Let's look back. He signed the car that judged the annoying judge Baltasar Garzón for listening to those accused by the plot Gürtel, that plot that, as you know, is an organization of the People's Party for delinquency, that has already cost us too much money and that has ended with a M. Rajoy stained to the eyebrows and that you have not yet given any kind of explanation. [[Applauds]] In short, let's see how things are, we have a next state attorney general who is not only very close to a former minister who is being prosecuted by Bankia's stock market outlet, but also has already worked in favour of the People's Party in the Gürtel plot. Call us crazy, Mr. Catalá, but you're the one who's good enough to comply with the Constitution. And since we are, comply with the Constitution, comply with article 124, ensure that justice is going to be independent and that the Spaniards will never have to listen again in the mouth of any corrupt as they call the coonudo a prosecutor to operate in favor of you instead of protecting people, which is what he has to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u127	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u128	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I do not know very well why you call a procedure that is to apply the rules to be opaque, and I do not know in what legislation it is stipulated that a jurisdiction that is exclusive to the Government of the nation, this Government and any Government in the past must be agreed. I have not known throughout my entire professional life that a government has agreed to the proposal to appoint any public prosecutor. So I'm surprised what I've heard these days. This procedure has not been approved by this Government, it was adopted in 2007 by a socialist Government and we think very well, we apply the legislation as we always do and it has been put into effect. You're lucky you can disqualify and tarnish people's honor and stay so fresh. The candidate for Attorney General of the State is going to appear in the Committee on Justice and you will have time to ask him what you think. He is a person who has spent more than thirty years in the judicial career and more than seventeen years in the Supreme Court, not with the anecdote, but with the balance of his entire professional career as, by the way, all his colleagues do, who value him and appreciate him both personally and professionally. You yourself will have the opportunity to ask him in the Commission next week, when that appearance will be held. In any case, Your Honor, we like the separation of powers and we like our Constitution; we are not about to fix it, we are not about to repeal it, but about applying the rules every day, and that is what we do every day. That you insinuate in this House that a mayor influences the appointment of a president of a provincial court has merit, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] This shows a great knowledge of how the appointments of judicial posts in Spain take place. He's got merit. You are in the usual way, in discrediting the institutions, in talking bad about everything, in talking bad about the judiciary, in telling the citizens that there is corruption everywhere. It wouldn't be bad any proof, besides the gossip of what third people talk about who have no prestige or reliability, Your Honor. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u129	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u130	We shall now proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the government's policy on the administration of justice. For your defence, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hope that you do not wonder, in some way, why we are making this urgent inquiry into justice. The truth is that we have a very clear approach that I will try to explain to you in the minutes that I have. There may be many things left in the tinker, but the first clear and direct approach is that you lack any kind of plan to turn the nineteenth Administration of Justice that we have into a quality public service for citizens, which serves businesses and people. To start with this assertion, the first thing we would have to raise is what your last intervention was and what your dedication was in the last budgets that you brought to this House in the area of justice, on which, in some way, the lines of action of your department are based and where you want to go. Of the EUR 1726 million you have allocated to justice, a total of EUR 1358 million is earmarked for staff salaries only. If we make a comparison, we have not yet reached the 2010 levels in recovery of the Justice budget. Therefore, we cannot be talking about you, at the government level, investing in this department or having a special interest in doing so. Within this block, in which your majority corresponds to the staff chapter, Chapter 1, you have decreased the budget dedicated to staff training, in which there is a million euros less, and social security investments, expenditure and services represent a very low percentage. Besides, let's talk. You, in the ministry territory, make an investment in judicial buildings of 34 million euros and 37 million euros in free legal aid. That is, what would be the boiler, the end of a budget that should serve justice as a public service to the citizen. And to your great bet within this budget, which you have sold forward and behind, the goal of computerization of justice, paper zero, you dedicate the astronomical amount of 150 million euros that, compared to the total budget, well you see that percent is a low amount. Therefore, you have budgeted for a widely bureaucratised Ministry of Justice, to continue with such inertia that there are no level contributions or that you can turn the boat by a significant economic injection. That is the first thing to be said. But you can say: Not everything is budget, we could make a plan to streamline court proceedings, ratings, offices, etc. The truth is that in this context talking about a new judicial office when you're fifteen years old and you haven't made any progress on any implementation is ridiculous. [[The lady]] And with regard to the Office of the Prosecutor, whose 2012-2015 action plan remains unimplemented beyond some pilot project - because in justice everything is pilot projects - it does not pull forward. According to the Sisej, exactly zero euros are allocated to the organisational modernisation of the Justice Administration and, as we see, there is no budgetary commitment to this either. As far as personnel are concerned, you have said that you created 5000 places for the administration of justice. That seems wonderful and you can get a couple of headlines and even retweet it, but this only serves to consolidate some kind of public employment in the Administration after years and years of cuts, especially since you arrived, and serious difficulties to cover vacancies in a place where there is 40% interinity and an obvious workload, especially of judges and prosecutors. Here I remind you that the four associations have filed a lawsuit with the Ministry of Justice for the excessive workload they have and the consequences this has personally, taking home that anxiety, that stress. You could talk about other issues, such as establishing the plan to bring the ratio of judicial and prosecutorial bodies closer to a normalised situation in Europe, but the latest oppositions convened at the OEB on 11 July 2017 have the astronomical number of 65 judges and 35 prosecutors, which does not seem to contribute excessively to bringing us closer to the European average of 21 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, when in Spain there are 12; or 11 prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants, when in Spain there are 5. That is, it is clearly insufficient and works according to a desire that is very clear. You can tell me: It is that we have focused all our efforts on the computerization of justice. I have already told you that this is a failure in all terms; if we had to talk about LexNet, I do not know what else to add to everything you have already been considering in questions that have been raised both in this Chamber and in the Committee on Justice. It is an inefficient, costly system, in which money has basically been thrown away, where there are really obvious and glaring security failures and that after many years you have also failed to bring this issue into line with the autonomous communities, which really have competences. Right now, to save your management, you are trying to push them to adopt a common procedural management system, which obviously does not seem the best of strategies. If you enter the Judicial Office, which is the day-to-day work of a judge, a prosecutor, who has to work with a computer organization that doesn't work for you and in which you can't search in PDF what you need - you say it's paper zero but you have to print it all because, if not, you can't do your job -, where communications fail you, where many times added situations are generated, where there are 40% of acting people who aren't trained, no effort is made to form it, you will understand that there is a manifest anger in all legal operators against this ministry. It is a subject that you are either familiar with or simply live behind your back and absolutely out of the reality of the department that it is up to you to manage. That's clear and obvious. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, please, can you sit down or go outside? Because they're interrupting the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u133	Thank you, Madam President. But you can say: For we are doing an obvious legislative action and these fruits are going to be seen in a longer time. Look, it's that you have the ministry absolutely stopped at the legislative level with the help of the invaluable orange agent, which has a total paralysing effect. I do not need to remind you of the situation of this Congress today, with forty-four vetoed laws - an absolute record - and more than twenty laws in which you and your citizens' friends are extending the deadline for amendments in a systematic way to prevent any group from raising this issue. I have taken the trouble to review the priorities of the People's Party Government since you arrived in 2011, basically the legislative priorities, and the truth is that putting them behind one another is shocking and comes to the conclusion that you are embarked on an authoritarian, conservative project, which seeks only to steal from civil society the control of popular illegalities while you seek to directly control the elements of justice that you, in your particular desire, can harm. That you speak to me - you, a reproved minister, which means that the absolute majority of this House, except for your unconditional UPN and Foro Asturias, does not believe you when you say that there is no interference in justice - that you defend the independence of justice is basically a question of legislative sarcasm, a question on which unfortunately you will remain alone. [[Applauds]] He said that, if a review is made, you have removed permissions from legal operators; you have raised the fees; you have paralysed the renewal of the council; you have reformed the council - Gallardón, but I suppose you will assume this because if not, you would have changed it; you still have the possibility to support our bill - to make an absolutely presidentialist, inefficient council, where there are first and second councillors, where it is Lesmes - who was the director of Justice with Aznar - who controls, let's say, all the appointments and who has the possibility of doing or not doing so in that Council; you have modified the universal justice to restrict it; you have expanded the Criminal Code and the concept of terrorism; the law bites, the remedy of unconstitutionality, the execution of resolutions of the Constitutional Court by removing its primigenic function, you have introduced the Berlusconi law, which means shortening the deadlines without giving the means to justice, which is the best way to generate impunity for corruption crimes. This was told by six associations and 1,000 prosecutors of 2500, who asked for dialogue because in the processes you developed it was impossible to make the adaptation you wanted. In short, you have also made a berlusconization - and they are not my words, but on the part of the doctrine - of criminal justice in relation to judicial independence and section 324 of the Criminal Prosecution Act. And on the other hand, you cling to a pact for justice, which is supposed to have to come out of this House for you to implement, and from there what you have done is to paralyse absolutely all your action and not take any step forward to create a quality justice service and for the citizenry. You're not doing anything at all. Among your last contributions, I suppose important, you are visiting private law firms or doing these kinds of actions or talks in which you, under a mantra of defense of the institutions or of judicial independence absolutely empty of content and that you fall on all sides, maintain the status quo, which suits you well for other reasons. Therefore, you have had an excessive and increasing interference in the appointment of certain posts of the Administration of Justice and in the management of government bodies; there is a loss of independence of the prosecutor's office; a loss of prestige of the highest interpreting body of the Constitution, which is the Constitutional Court; a lack of investment in the justice service; an inefficient competition, personal and territorial organization; unagile procedural laws; lack of investment in free justice; lack of support for investment in social services and technical support - it is clamorous in gender violence -; lack of regulation of the judicial police; lack of commitment for complementary systems in justice, such as restorative justice;...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u134	Mr. Santos, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u135	President, I'm done. ... failure to control the activity, let's say, in prisons by the Prison Surveillance Courts, and absolute discontent of all legal operators, it is enough to refer to certain recent communiqués that you will undoubtedly know. And they don't have any plans for this. I hope you come up here and tell us, please, what you're going to do. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos Itoiz. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u137	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Santos, I really thank you for having the opportunity to discuss the reforms that our Justice needs. Unfortunately, I see that the interests of your group towards me in parliamentary control have more to do with other matters than with this, which is really what we should be dealing with, so, as I say, I think it is very timely to present this inquiry, which allows us to devote a little longer than usual time in parliamentary control to the situation of justice. You gave quantitative data that, of course, can be interpreted, like everything else in this life. The Justice Section of the State's General Budgets over the past three years has been among the few that have grown steadily, 7.7% in this year 2017 nothing more and nothing less. Could it have grown any more? It is very possible, but it seems to me that what has been made clear in the last three budget years - as far as the economic situation has allowed it to be minimal - is the Government's commitment to justice and, therefore, to provide it with sufficient financial resources. And in these budgets, no doubt, there is the part of the remuneration of professionals, which is the most relevant. We pay all judges, prosecutors, lawyers of the Administration of Justice, as well as officials who serve in the territory of the Ministry of Justice. That is why the budget of the Ministry of Justice is traditionally about eighty percent staff costs. But the rest of the games are important, Your Honor. Of course, they do not compete quantitatively with the more than €1.3 billion dedicated to wages, but they are very important. It is very important to be able to devote resources to judicial headquarters and that is why we are addressing major reform projects in Badajoz, Guadalajara, Albacete, Talavera, in many localities that undoubtedly need a quality judicial headquarters. That is why every year we increase the provision for free legal assistance, in order to adequately remunerate lawyers who serve on duty and to be able to care for citizens without resources, who have to have their access to justice guaranteed. That is why almost EUR 150 million a year is devoted to innovation, to new technologies in justice, it seems to me a fortune, a money that has never been invested in this sector and it is what gives me confidence, in addition to having magnificent professionals working in this field, that we are able to finally change the way we work in justice and that new technologies are a reality and a normality, as in so many other areas of public administration and of Spanish society as a whole. I do not think at all that it is failing in technological innovation; I can think that it is going slower, I would like to go faster, I would like to have less problems when systems fail but, Your Honor, today - and you know the justice sector and the professionals as I know them - you live better with today's Lexnet than without Lexnet, and today's LexNet is going much better than last year's Lexnet. The fact that more than one hundred and fifty million electronic transmissions of judicial documents have been made in a year and a half shows that it is a very useful tool, although it is certainly better, and that is why we will continue to work on it, as we will also work with the autonomous communities to ensure that procedural management systems are common, are unitary as far as possible and in this way we can move forward. This is a sector - I said earlier - in which personnel costs are the most important because people are the most important, so we continue to bet to incorporate professionals, to properly qualify them. I have not understood whether the consolidation of more than 3,000 jobs in the 2017 job offer seems to your honor little, if it seems wrong or agrees. I believe that it is a good step to overcome temporary employment, consolidate employment and, therefore, that civil servants have a system of professional stability and career towards the future, as well as being systematically calling 100 places for judges and prosecutors every year. In the 2018 budget, the one that we have not just taken off and hopefully we have it as soon as possible, we have provided 300 places for judges and prosecutors; therefore, the bet on the adequate staffing of judges and prosecutors I assure you is one of the objectives of the Ministry of Justice. You mentioned a fact that always generates controversy, how many judges per 100,000 inhabitants must have a country, a state to have justice with adequate resources. That data of twenty or twenty that you quoted, I think it is those of Macedonia and I don't know what other country; we have a problem of comparison, a problem of homogeneity because the ten, eleven or twelve judges per 100,000 inhabitants that exist in most of the states comparable with our country, France, Italy or Germany, are the ones who place the reasonable band. Man, if I added the 7700 justices of the peace that exist in Spain to the 5500 judges of judicial career, look where we were going to be, we would be above the twenty-ones, but it is clear that these are not homogeneous and comparable data. The data we have is that European statistics place Spain on the average of countries comparable with what is the reality of justice in Spain. This year 109 new places have been created through two royal decrees adopted by the Council of Ministers, 16 for the second criminal court and 93 for the creation of new judicial bodies, most of them one-person and most of them civil, criminal and social order, which is where we have the most workload. Therefore, we are working intensively with them. You tell me about the professionals. I assure you that one of my permanent lines of activity and dedication is permanent contact with the judges, with the prosecutors, with the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, with the officials, with the lawyers, with the prosecutors, with the notaries, with the registrars; with all the professionals, I dedicate part of my time to this.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u138	Minister, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, please, with the same respect and attention that I asked for a moment ago to listen to the Member who was speaking, I ask that we listen to the Minister, just that; with the same respect and the same attention. Thank you very much. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u139	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I told you that the direct relationship with the professionals allows us to take the pulse of the situation and know the issues that concern the professionals, but, of course, I relate institutionally, I go to the congresses of the judges, the prosecutors, I talk to the professional colleges of lawyers and prosecutors and to the associations of lawyers of the Administration of Justice. I don't know if you the thermometer puts it to the sector through social networks, which is not a bad indicator, but obviously not the only one. I believe that we have a good institutional relationship, which allows us to identify problems and provide solutions, as we have done with judicial fees, one of my first commitments when I joined the Ministry of Justice: to lower the fees and we lower them, and we suppress them for natural persons. Also, the revision of free legal aid, the Professional Services Act, VAT - which could have fallen on duty duty and has not been so -. Finally, there are many things we have done to maintain that relationship with professionals. You have described the reforms carried out by the People's Party and the People's Party Government during this parliamentary term as conservative and reactionary. I do not believe that this concept can be applied to the Statute of the Victim, for example, or to the barrage of traffic accidents, or to measures to bring technological research into our criminal process, or to the reform of the Criminal Code to better protect minors, victims of gender-based violence and to better defend ourselves from jihadist terrorism, or to the reform of the administrative and contentious cassation in the Organic Law of the Judiciary, or to the extension of the powers of the perpetrators of violence so that a specialized body can better address all these causes. I imagine that you will not apply these qualifications to those laws passed during 2014-2015. In any case, we have time ahead of us, Your Honor. We are in the process of launching the subcommission for the national justice strategy in which contributions can be made. We are already, as your honor knows perfectly well, in the process of concluding, already finishing the work in that subcommittee. I hope that your group's contributions will allow us to identify - then we have a small turn in this inquiry - what your proposals are, what you think we have to do, in what line we should move forward. Is a new Criminal Prosecution Act necessary? Better criminal justice? Let's work on it. Is it necessary to speed up the operation of civil execution? Let's move on, too. In any case, I am looking forward to the proposals of your parliamentary group both in the subcommittee on the national justice strategy and in this urgent inquiry that you have put forward. I do have a plan and I am explaining it where I have an opportunity, in the Committee on Justice I did it when I appeared in December last year, a few days after I was appointed Minister again by President Rajoy, and as many times as I can present those ideas. Yesterday, he did so in Seville in front of a forum of legal and justice professionals. I therefore assure you that the Ministry of Justice has a clear plan of work with seven measures - I do not have time now to develop them - which I believe your Office knows perfectly well because, as I say, I have been repetitive in its presentation. We are looking forward to getting out of this already, but in any case let us not miss the many reforms that have already been put forward. The Government has adopted a draft organic law on data protection, a draft for the transposition of the directive of the European Investigation Order, we have put forward reforms of the Criminal Code on various issues, we have put forward reforms of the Organic Law of the Judiciary for the recovery of rights by professionals. There are many projects that are already here in this House, and I am sure that if they are supported it will be much easier. As for the budgets, Your Honor, I am prepared to convince my parliamentary group and the Minister of Finance, my friend Mr Montoro, that if you support the 2018 budgets, we will have a better budget in justice. I will be delighted to be able to accommodate all the requests made by your parliamentary group for the improvement of justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Santos Itoiz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u141	Thank you. Minister, I must admit that you never disappoint. I raise the issue of budgets and, obviously, as is your obligation, you come to discuss the reality and the approach you have taken with those budgets, with which you make a practically bureaucratic speech, just as your budgets are, and based only on rules and figures - with some traps - with regard to budgetary developments. Minister, you have spoken about the professionals and their remuneration, which is important. Of course, someone works for money and likes to value what he does, but he said it's the most relevant thing and I don't agree with that. Most judges, prosecutors, people working in the justice sector, legal operators, do so because they like this profession. And they like to exercise it honestly, effectively and respect the way they can do it at the service of the citizen and that is what is not being done by this ministry. For example, when he talks about the recovery of the Muscots, what he doesn't say is that most judges and prosecutors don't care as much as what they're going to find when they come back to court after they've taken the day of leave, because they're not going to replace them because you don't dedicate a euro to that. You always stay on the surface of the formal and never fall to the reality of the courts and normal functioning. And the same goes for free legal aid. You talk about decent pay and large amounts, but you don't do it about the 90 euros that are charged for a 24-hour guard or that you don't appoint lawyers for minor offenses in most of the sites and therefore you're not getting to the citizen with this topic. The big figures don't let you see the forest of reality. He talks about job consolidation and that in the budgets there are 300 places for judges and prosecutors. Can you explain to me, then, why four associations have filed a lawsuit against the ministry for the excessive workload they have? If it turns out that we are within that wonderful European average and we are not the seventh by the tail, which is what the report says, and if it turns out that everything works well - computerization works and the media are wonderful - and all the complaints of professionals are answered in the institutional sphere, in which you seem to be moving so well, what is not understood is why reality is tearing you apart this so beautiful and so beautiful speech. And fortunately you have shielded yourself from this and have not gone into the background of other issues that we raise. We believe that your justice program is conservative and authoritarian and goes directly to for judicial independence; that you stay in the formulas of the law but do not say exactly what you are doing, which is to influence - you are doing it - the judicial organs for the defense of the interests of your party, which is harassed by cases of corruption. Today, it comes out how judges who were about to judge the Gürtel issue and all because they dared to take Mr. Rajoy to testify to the National Court. And you have taken advantage, in that Spanish billiard, of three bands that you like so much, to put Concepción Espejel and his friend Enrique López, whose connection with the PP is undeniable, in the Appeals Chamber of the National Court. That's what they've been working on clearly. For what? To have control of this subject. But you do not propose this, and then you want us to come to the subcommittee on a State Pact for Justice and make proposals. I have the proposals here and can read them if you have time; the problem is that we and we cannot rely on a government that implements this program that cares a fig for professionals, who have no empathy with the day-to-day justice, who do not consider justice a public service. All you want is to control over the cases that affect you and you have no plan to dignify and make justice a priority. Therefore, we and we cannot participate in a farce that all you have to do is keep kicking the ball forward, as you are doing, for example, with notifications to the prosecutor's office, and end the legislature as if nothing had happened here and as if the others had no proposals. I read: provision of resources for investigation and prosecution of corruption offences, increased provision for free justice, calls for places for officials, application of restorative justice, psychological assistance to victims, independence of the prosecutor's office, equipment and infrastructure - by the way, do not cheat, the only new infrastructure is that of Talavera, the others have been dragging away for a long time -, training of officials, rationalization of the judicial office, external and public audit of the judicial system, transition from prison institutions to justice - we are the only country, together with Hungary, that has them in the interior for reasons you will know -, free justice for environmental associations, creation of the citizen observatory for the evaluation of public policies, strengthening of systems of legislative evaluation...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u142	Mr. Santos, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u143	Please, I have three left, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u144	But it's been over a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u145	Establishment of human rights offices, state agency for consumer protection, regulation of psychosocial court teams, especially for cases of male violence. I can go on, Minister, there is no problem. Now I want you to tell me what you're going to do to correct the course of the boat; if you don't tell us, we'll take note. That's what there is. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos Itoiz. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I insist that your proposals are very welcome, and what happens is that they have seemed to me - it is also true that the times do not allow for detail - a little commonplaces; commonplaces which I too join and I say that we must improve, equip ourselves with more resources, invest in professionals, etc. [[The lady]] I'll add to all that, too. We have an opportunity in the Committee on Justice of this House, of which you are a member, to reach conclusions that will lead us in the right direction. Because, look, we are a few less now, but in all groups we are the ones who are and we need agreements to promote reforms, especially reforms of state policies, such as justice, which need great consensus. We are ready - you know - to seek with your group these kinds of agreements in procedural reforms, in organizational reforms, in substantive reforms that will allow us to work with the future. It seems to me that working against gender-based violence is a state policy with which we all have to be committed; creating specialized prosecutors' offices in the field of disability and intellectual property protection is a policy that must be state-owned and for all; also improving the protection of personal data, adopting a new law on real estate credit that strengthens the position of the consumer, approving the European research order that guarantees that our judges and prosecutors will be able to do their work with better conditions, strengthening the independence of the judiciary through the abolition of the appointment of judges by the parliamentary assemblies of the autonomous communities, regulating the lobbies, regulating the transition from policy to justice and vice versa, etc. In all that, Your Honor, we are available to dialogue and to find agreements. What we're not going to agree on is talking bad about institutions. You mentioned a case that is in the press today, and it is a system of designation, composition, organization of the sections of the National Audience. Your Honor, this is an agreement that has been adopted by the Governing Chamber of the National Court, it is a decision that has been made by judges with a composition that is what it is and that many times its decisions to the Government seem better or worse, but we do not criticize them because they are decisions in this case that are not jurisdictional but governative but that have the competence of the Governing Chamber, which has not been elected by this minister or by the Government of the People's Party. We would therefore do well to respect the institutions, to speak well of the institutions because, among other things, Your Honor, there are 5500 judges who work every day and no one tells them what they have to do; there are 2500 prosecutors who work every day and no one tells them what they have to do; there are almost 350 000 people working in the justice sector and no one tells them what they have to do. It is good to talk well about what works well and justice works reasonably well in many cases. The response times of our justice - compared to other countries such as France or Germany - are better in Spain and we never hear you speak well about that. As for the system of election of the Attorney General of the State for which I have been asked before, in France, the Office of the Attorney General of the State is a general directorate of the Ministry of Justice and they want to evolve to a model like ours. In Greece - which is certainly a country that serves as a reference for many things - the system of choice of the prosecutor is the same as in Spain. Your Honor, why do we not speak well of things that go well in our justice and strive permanently to generate suspicion and manipulation? Why do you, instead of insisting with that mantra, with that slogan - the truth is that you do that very well, take a slogan and smash it permanently - do you not show anything of what you say? Besides saying, why don't they prove it? I do not think that they help in any way their attitudes and their manifestations, that they speak ill of justice, that they constantly question the independence of judges and prosecutors without any proof, that is, without any proof. Your Honor, I think it is much better to devote ourselves to building, working, giving judges, prosecutors, lawyers from the Justice Administration and average officials to work better. And, as I said before, I will be delighted, when the 2018 budgets are finally processed in this House, to know your proposals here and in the Committee on Justice for that national strategy that will allow us - hopefully we will reach agreements - to work on all the lines that your Lordship has put forward. It has sounded good to me, then we will see when we put the lyrics to that music but it seems to me that we have an opportunity to build, to speak well about justice and justice professionals to serve citizens and to have quality justice, which is ultimately what we all want. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u148	Thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF FOOD ON THE PLANS OF HIS MINISTERY FOR THE IMPULSION OF THE MEDITERRANEAN CORREDOR. [[File number 172/000090]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u149	We continue with the urgent interpellation of the Citizens Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Development, on the plans of his ministry for the push of the Mediterranean Corridor. For your defence, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u150	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister De la Serna, the first promise made about the Mediterranean corridor by Spanish politicians - in this case the Socialist Party - was in 1987; I was four years old and the Berlin wall had not yet fallen. Then came a motion to Congress, defended by a Valencian deputy in the year 1990, of which they are fulfilled within two weeks twenty-seven years. Since then in Spain we have had a brutal transformation of our economy and of our society, we have had four presidents. Many things have happened, we have gone through, among other things, a real estate and infrastructure boom, and then we have had a very deep crisis, and the Mediterranean corridor still remains in successive promises, from successive ministers of Development who continue to say the same thing: that it is going to move forward, that they do have commitments, but absolutely nothing is concrete. How is it possible that nothing has been done since 1987 until today, which has been thirty years? I ask myself two questions. One is whether it is really strategic and necessary to have such an infrastructure. And the other is whether or not we have had enough funding during these years, because it is clear that every funding has its opportunity cost and we do not want to throw the money away either. With regard to the first question, Mr De la Serna, I believe that it is a truly strategic infrastructure. It is because there are 1300 kilometers of railway that connect the whole Mediterranean arc from the Pyrenees to Algeciras, which is an area with an extraordinary activity and dynamism, with 50% of our exports, with 70% of port traffic, with 50% of the Spanish population and almost half of the GDP concentrated on the coast of the Mediterranean arc. It is an infrastructure that connects four very important ports for Spain because they connect us with the world: the port of Barcelona, the port of Valencia, the port of Cartagena and the port of Algeciras. It is, in short, a key infrastructure to become a focal point of connection in an absolutely globalised world and to have the possibility to lead in the Mediterranean, which historically is a space of great commercial activity and which also serves as a connection with the rest of the world. Therefore, not having the Mediterranean corridor is a very important bottleneck for economic growth. But it is not only important for these reasons, but also for connecting people. Today in Spain to move from Valencia to Barcelona we take twice as long to move from Valencia to Madrid. It's the same distance, 350 kilometers, but it took twice as long. Minister, it seems to me that it is a priority for us to start taking seriously in the 21st century the idea of connecting areas of very high economic activity on reasonable technical issues. It is also a strategic priority for environmental reasons. Now, for example, 99% of agri-food exports use the truck to bring the fruits and vegetables produced in Murcia, Alicante and Almería to Europe and to our markets in the north. An infrastructure like this could allow us to save 900 000 tonnes of CO2, which would be equivalent to 130 000 cars going around the world. It is also a priority infrastructure for competitiveness reasons. It would result in a very significant saving in the cost of Spanish industries, which are already very competitive, reducing transport costs by almost 50 %. In addition, the European Union, through the Commission and its priority infrastructure plans, believes that it is an absolute geostrategic priority for Europe to connect the entire Mediterranean arc almost to the border with Ukraine, passing through Hungary. Mr Minister, it is clear that this is a strategic issue and I imagine that you too share it, at least this is what you have expressed on some recent occasions. Then the question is whether there has not been enough money in Spain to be able to make this infrastructure that seems essential. Let me quote some infrastructures that have been made during the last years of which - rather than having been awarded to fingers for political reasons, absolutely random reasons or directly financing their own party or the Socialist Party, in their case - could have come out some millions to invest them in really strategic infrastructures: City of Arts and Sciences of Valencia, 1280 million and 900 million overcost; City of Culture of Santiago, 400 million and 280 million overcost; Expo de Zaragoza, 2250 million with losses of 500 million and that is not used; the Magic Fund of Madrid, 300 million and 175 million overcost; City of Light of Alicante, 350 million and 250 million overcost; Palma Arena de Mallorca, 110 million and 69 million overcost; City of Environment of Soria, 52 million and unfinished, paralysed since 2013; City of Circus of Alcorcón, 150 million and 30 million overcost; Pavilion of the Kingdom of Navarre, 60 million and 70 million in use; Hospital Central of Asturicos, 9 billion in number of railways; Barcelona, 900 million in number of railways, 900 million in number; The government's policy on infrastructure - and our Socialist Party colleagues for so many years - is so disastrous and has had so little strategic and economic sense that it is embarrassing. With this motion we tabled here today - we have transferred it to the Government and we have also included it in our covenants and in some of the recent laws, such as the Contracts Act - we have agreed on an independent regulatory and oversight office in the Contracts Act; we have agreed on the national evaluation office; we have agreed on a national transport pact. The first two are already in the process of being implemented, precisely so that an infrastructure policy can be implemented with technical evaluation, independently and, as I say, with technical and not political or random criteria. Minister, I ask you if you have a commitment to stop doing random policy with infrastructure and you are going to really commit to the Mediterranean corridor, which is obvious - and I hope you will corroborate this - which is an essential infrastructure for economic dynamism, for the connection with Europe, for the connection with the world and for Spain to lead globalisation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u151	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to Mr de Fomento.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u152	Thank you, President. Mr Roldán, indeed, for us the Mediterranean corridor is a political, economic and social priority, and I cannot agree with you that we are carrying out a policy of words, rather on the contrary. I believe that the works that are being carried out, in an unprecedented momentum, show that they are being carried out in each and every stage, but in an integral way. As you ask me about the situation and the progress of the works of the Mediterranean corridor, let me tell you about the exact situation in which the different sections are located. As you know enough, the part corresponding to Catalonia, from Tarragona to the French border, is already finished. At the beginning of this legislature, together with the French Government, we made the connection between Figueres and Perpignan viable. I believe that the solution of mixed society is working very well. On the other hand, we have the section between Tarragona and Vandellòs. We have advanced the deadline for the completion of the works and we will finish them this year, in December 2017. From then on, the period of circulation in test will begin. We are doing this, for the moment, with Iberian width, because we have to wait to place the international width once we finish the stretch between Castellbisbal and Vilaseca and the section corresponding to Castellón-Vandellòs; so that at the moment when it comes into operation with commercial trains, you can already get a half hour savings in that connection that you mention between Valencia and Barcelona. On the other hand, there is the Castellbisbal-Vilaseca stretch, which has an investment close to 370 million euros; the Tarragona-Vandellòs stretch is 685 million euros. With regard to the corresponding section up to Martorell, after a process of termination of the contract, work has already begun for the tender and we are working on the drafting of the new project for the tender of the works. In the other two subtrames that reach Vilaseca it has been the authorization of the celebration of the corresponding modified and the provisional continuity, so that we have the final scenario of this performance for the end of the year 2019. Below, continuing to Castellón, there is the Vandellòs-Castellón section, in which a process of termination of the contracts is also being carried out - it has already been concluded - with the tender of new projects and the elaboration of them, in order to meet the committed deadline of completion with international width in 2020. This represents an investment of about 210 million euros. Then there is the Castellón-Valencia section. As you know, the works corresponding to the first of the tracks were completed. We're in the final phase of the trial circulation period. Immediately after the end of this testing phase, the commercial trains begin to circulate and we begin the execution of the third track, also on the next track, at least until Sagunto, since from Sagunto we have to rebidden a new performance. As you also know, and in a medium- and long-term projection, we have raised the need to create a second platform for Castellón-Valencia. In September we have already tendered for the drafting of the information study, with an investment of around EUR 12 billion. On the other hand, we also have the part that corresponds to the integration of the Mediterranean corridor and the integration of the railway in Valencia, with a triple project that we have proposed to the different administrations and that make up what is called the passing tunnel, which is really part of the corridor through Valencia, with an investment close to 880 million euros, which is going to affect 100% the Ministry of Development. To this end, in September we tendered the drafting of the information study, the integration of the area in what is called the access channel, with the participation of the municipality and the Valencian Community, with an investment close to 350 million euros, for which we have already transferred to the administrations the corresponding collaboration agreement. On the basis of this agreement, 50% of the action by the Government of Spain will be financed. Finally, the Portela station will carry an investment of around EUR 1 billion and will also be part of that set, which, as I say, will exceed EUR 2200 million in total. Then, we have the Valencia-Xátiva-La Encina connection, where we are already starting the first stretch between Mogente and Alcudia, which will allow the trains that are now circulating on the platform that will then be used to deviate to this line and, thus, proceed to the replacement of the international width by the line that is currently in operation. The final period of the works is the third quarter of 2019, according to our commitments. The works are already very advanced, around 85%, and they also represent a major investment of around €1400 million. We also have the connection made during the previous legislature with a great effort by the then Minister of Development and President of Congress, in order to be able to equip Alicante with that high-speed connection and which today has undoubtedly transformed the competitiveness of the entire province of Alicante. From there we go to Murcia, where there is a slight deviation on the deadlines proposed, since it has been difficult for us to meet those deadlines under the conditions that were given in Murcia, but which we continue to maintain in that first quarter, about the month of March, the completion of actions, which also involve a high investment, in the Monforte stretch of the Cid-Murcia, and from that month the period of circulation in tests will begin. We are talking about about EUR 12 billion in investment. We also enter this integration process in Murcia, where, as you already know, there are about 1100 meters of underground that is already contracted and that is in execution, up to the path of the Garres, and we intend to definitively approve the project of the rest of underground up to the 4 kilometers, with a joint investment of 606 million euros, that will allow to bid, in the first trimester of next year, the part corresponding to Barriomar and the station of Carmen. On Saturday I had the opportunity in Almeria to present the situation of the sections from Murcia to Almeria, also with a very high investment, which will overall reach up to 3000 million euros. We are currently drafting the projects for the six tranches. We will also finish them in the first quarter of 2018 and, from there, we will proceed to the start of the bidding of all the stages that we have committed ourselves, in an integral way, to doing for the first semester, that is, before July next year, in the same way that we will also start the expropriation process. In the city of Almeria we are already working for the purpose of bidding the works of a part of the underground, the one corresponding to the area of Puche, with 23 million euros of investment. From there we are going to Granada, where a renewal of the road has been proposed, an improvement of electrification, an integral approach to achieving a reduction of time, with an investment of about 360 million euros, and we are also working on the elaboration of the corresponding projects. Antequera-Granada is a work whose main works will end on Thursday or Friday. The same Friday will begin the period of circulation in tests of the main track. It is true that there are still complementary works in the environment but that they do not hinder the process of testing traffic to establish safety conditions and that within a few months, once this process has been completed, the movement of commercial trains can be carried out. Here too we have made a very important investment. Finally, in the Antequera-Bobadilla-Algeciras stretch we are carrying out a process of renewal with electrification. We are already working on some important sections. I do not want to forget Cartagena, where we are taking steps in the processing of the corresponding projects and where there are already tender procedures for sections such as that corresponding to the Baipá de Beniel, which will reach 22 billion euros, of which it can be said that approximately 14 000 are built, that is to say, about 8 billion would remain in those sections that we are implementing right now. To all this we would have to add the harbour connections, that give meaning to the Mediterranean corridor, in which there are about 200 million euros in various actions that are being carried out, for example, in the port of Castellón. Tomorrow we will be at the first hour in Castellón to see the march of the actions corresponding to the south dock of the port of Castellón and the railway connection of that south dock and also the railway connection through the south zone to the port. Sagunto has an investment of 31 million for the connection with the Mediterranean corridor. It is true that it also has another investment to finance part of the conventional network up to Zaragoza, on the Huesca-Zaragoza-Teruel line, with an investment of about 313 million euros. We also have investments in other ports to promote this connectivity with a Mediterranean corridor that is already a reality because in all these sections - in some we are in administrative procedures - we can see actions that are being implemented, with an absolutely decisive impulse on the part of the Government of Mariano Rajoy. I can talk to you about all this, but you have brought me a battery of works, many of which have absolutely nothing to do with the government. Almost 100 per cent of the responsibility for what has happened in some of these works has come to us, but I have listened to him and he has mentioned works for all the administrations. By the way, in one of those you have commented we may be responsible if the Murtian Government is to award AENA management of the Murcia airport, which you mentioned, and which would entail the incorporation into the airport network of an important airport in order to further improve our country's connection ratios at international level. All this proves an absolutely determined impulse for strategic action for the country as a whole, as we are convinced that it is the Mediterranean corridor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u154	I thank you, Minister, for the practicality and detail of the development of the works. As you said, it is true that I have mentioned works and infrastructure projects that were of both governments, some of the People's Party and others of the Socialist Party, and some decided by mayors. In the end, it is a conception of what has to be an infrastructure project. I'd go further, many of them are billions, it's a lot of money. It costs us 100 million euros - Minister Báñez knows very well - to increase paternity permits a week and here we are talking about billions in many cases. I would like the Government to really assume the responsibility of doing, seriously, an infrastructure policy with serious assessment, with technical criteria, with cost/benefit priority and doing less policy as has been done in the past. I have forgotten to mention an infrastructure that has come to you to rescue, which is the 5 billion radials. It is a lot of money, Mr De la Serna, and it is true that responsibility is shared, but it is many years of doing things very badly. I think it is right for the government to take on the mistakes of the past and, in any case, try to improve for the future. Regarding the connections you mentioned, I just want to comment on two that I think are very relevant, recent and that would require relatively little effort in relation to the return they might have. Right now in Barcelona we have European width up to the border, but it is not connected to the port. That's been going on since 2012. Such works should perhaps be a priority. And the same happens - you also mentioned it before - with the stretch between Xàtiva and La Encina, which is an addition of one hundred million, after an investment of one billion, which would reduce the connection time between Valencia and Alicante in thirty minutes with a small investment more, but since 2010 it is almost all built and yet the trains do not pass there and it goes much slower. Perhaps they should give a little more priority to those issues. In conclusion, you said at the beginning of your speech that you want to respond with works and not words. That's what Mrs. Pastor said five years ago. It seems very good to me, we agree, apply it, but get to work so that the runner is as soon as possible. I wanted to ask you one last question: When do you think the connection, let's put from Alicante to France, will be completed so that we can start talking seriously about the Mediterranean corridor? Could you give us a date for the parliamentarians? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u155	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Development has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, of course I can give you a date, because we are constantly explaining in the territory what we do and we are giving concrete dates. That is why we are frequently going to spaces inside the corridor; I was, as I say, on Saturday in Almería, I plan to go this week to Granada and tomorrow I will be in Castellón, and we will talk about the Mediterranean corridor. These dates are marked: until Murcia, completion of the works in the year 2020, and the rest, 2023, which are the deadlines between Murcia-Almeria; 2023, Almeria-Granada - evidently Antequera-Granada is ahead - and similar deadlines that are being talked about for Bobadilla-Algeciras, although in some cases, such as renovation projects, these deadlines can be advanced in this last stage. You make a reference to some EUR 5 billion, which, frankly, I do not know where they come from either. That will be a figure that you think or have heard from someone, but of course it is far from the figures that the Government is handling on the matter to which you refer, which on the other hand has just drawn up an infrastructure plan with public-private collaboration. But it is not with payment for use, but with payment for availability, so the reduction of risks or the transfer of risks to the concessionaire is much greater, it is not subject to the problems of traffic and, moreover, it will be subject, as I have already explained in the Committee for the Promotion of Congress, to the corresponding procedures both of feasibility studies, which will go out to public information on a prior basis, as well as to the filters to be established within the National Evaluation Office. [[The Lord]] In relation to what she says about Xàtiva-La Encina, I don't quite understand what she means. There are several sections between Mogente and Alcudia that at the moment it is necessary to modify so that they can circulate the trains because at present they cannot do so; at the moment when they are circulating on this platform it is when we can proceed to realize the width because we could not do it in the way in which it is prepared. It is true that with a level of execution as high as that of this stage, which is around 85%, it may seem immediate to carry out the commissioning, but it is not so, because this game of tracks forces us to have to go to that deadline of the third quarter of 2019. That is the deadline we set for the completion of the works. This 2020 connection will substantially reduce travel times. However, after 2020 there will be some actions to be undertaken, in addition to these, of new platforms that we have proposed, but there will already be that corridor with international width in the form we have explained. Obviously, when there is the tunnel and when new platforms are already available, also within which they are being processed in the informational studies, the times will decrease substantially and it is assumed that they can be of two hours of circulation between Barcelona and Valencia. This is, Mr President, a policy of fact. You were bringing out here a few words from the president of Congress, words that she fulfilled in rajatabla, and that Mariano Rajoy's government is also fulfilling in this legislature. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u157	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON IMPROVING VUIDITY PENSIONS FOR PERSONS WITH 65 OR MORE YEARS OF EDUCATION WITH LESS INCOME. [[File number 172/000091]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u158	We continue with the following item on the agenda: Urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the improvement of widow's pensions for persons aged sixty-five or more with less income. For your defence, Mrs. Cuello Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u159	President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express our support and solidarity with the people affected by the derailment of the Malaga-Sevilla train which took place this morning, wishing for the victims' early recovery. [[Applauds]] I would also like to greet the pensioners' associations that are accompanying us today in the guest gallery. Minister, I'm starting. I never thought I would have to go up to this stage to ask her for the improvement of widow's pensions, of persons at risk of poverty or social exclusion, to ask her for the increase in pension requested by the Socialist Group in its proposal for a law on the improvement of widow's pension for persons with more than sixty-five years of age and less income, in compliance with the additional provision 30 of Law 27/2011 and also in compliance with the thirteenth recommendation of the Toledo Pact, which establishes this and which her Government has vetoed. I did not expect that, Minister, and much less after you committed yourself to this House and to this Member on 18 October, through an answer to an oral question put in plenary, to improving widow's pensions. I will remind you of your words in case you do not remember them: We will comply with the additional thirty-first provision of Law 27, Pension Reform, 2011. By the way, we are on time - you said -, we are already working on the regulation that develops it. What happened then, Mrs. Báñez? Why have they vetoed the proposal for a socialist law by claiming in its consideration that it entails an increase in expenditure? Of course it's spent. You're not going to improve these pensions anymore? Are they no longer working on the development of the regulation? You don't have time to carry out that mandate anymore? Persons receiving widow's pensions who are sixty-five years of age or older and who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion have been waiting for an improvement that will ensure the adequacy of their pensions for almost six years. Do you not already consider six years of debt to the widowed pensioners of this country, the worst of which has happened during the crisis? Six years, Minister, of late - as long as you have been in office - to fail and postpone that legal mandate. And the longer he goes without fulfilling it, the more he will shame this government. This is an improvement that would enable them to meet their most basic needs in order to live with dignity; an improvement that would guarantee them adequate pensions; a sufficiency, I remind you, which is recognized in article 50 of our Constitution. Six years have passed so that, at only twenty-six seconds before the end of the deadline for submitting the veto to the proposed socialist law that came to comply with this guarantee, these pensioners have been frustrated by this hope of being able to meet their most basic needs. I tell you in another way, for twenty-six seconds these pensioners - in women because most of them are women - have been left without the increase of their pension by the veto of their Government to our proposed law. [[Applauds]] Were your Government and the People's Parliamentary Group perhaps afraid to remain alone in their consideration? That consideration, I dare say, would have had the support of the rest of the parliamentary groups. Mrs Báñez, this House has repeatedly reiterated its commitment to ensuring that pensions are sufficient. This was done in 1995, 2003 and 2011 with the approval of successive reports from the Toledo Pact presentation, which in its 2011 reformulation expressly proposed the improvement of widowhood pensions for persons with 60 years of age or more for whom this pension constitutes their main source of income. Our aim is to cover situations of need under the principle of solidarity and guarantee of sufficiency in the protection on which our public pension system is based. Moreover, the improvement of these pensions should be made by raising the percentage to be applied to their regulatory base from 2012, to 60 % in the 2019 financial year. Law 27/2011 complies with this provision, and I remind you that it was adopted unanimously by both Houses on this point. Today, therefore, persons receiving this lower-income pension should have a pension equivalent to 58% of the regulatory base of their pension. Using their figures, those of the government veto, today these people should have a pension of 11.54% higher than they have; in 2018, in just one month, that pension should be 13.46% higher than they now enjoy; and in 2019 it should be 15.38% higher than the current one. However, Mrs Báñez, upon her arrival in the Government as Minister of Employment and Social Security, despite all the commitments of the PP to these pensioners, one of her first measures was to postpone the implementation of these increases; postponement that was made through the Royal Decree-Law 20/2011, of urgent measures in budgetary, tax and financial matters for the correction of the public deficit; postponement that later reiterated in all the laws of the State budgets from the financial years 2012 to 2016 and that the Law on General Budgets of the State for this financial year 2017 postpones without its implementation, by not establishing any forecast in this respect. Mrs Báñez, you and your Government are like the hortelano dog: they neither do nor let it be done, because, nor do they fulfil an existing legal mandate, which also comes from a parliamentary recommendation supported by the group that supports government action, nor do they let it go by vetoing the Socialist Group's initiative. It is a veto that joins others - and we have already had many - such as the one presented to the socialist bill that tried to prevent them from disposing of a non-contributory pension to the beneficiaries living in the same residence, throwing them into poverty and loneliness. Madam Minister, for the Socialists not to respond to these situations of unprotectiveness violates the principles on which our public pension system is based, primarily that of sufficiency and solidarity, the backbone of the welfare state. The veto presented by the government to solve the assumptions such as that of the sisters living in the same residence would entail an expenditure of 13 million euros for the social security coffers - repeat, 13 million euros - and in the improvement that would entail the increase of the widow's pension of the people with less income the veto is justified in an increase of the expenditure of 858 million in 2018. That EUR 13 million and EUR 858 million are a drop in water for a GDP like that of our country, and that is when your Government, Minister, takes on a bailout of EUR 2000 million for toll freeways in favour of creditors and a bank bailout that has cost, according to the Court of Auditors, more than 60 billion to the public coffers, while rejecting an increase in pensions in line with the CPI and leaving thousands of pensioners, including widows over sixty-five years at risk of poverty, in precarious conditions. It should be added that the economic crisis has led to the need not only for persons who receive widow's pensions to meet their own needs and expenses, but also to help families who may find themselves without resources or benefits, thereby exacerbating the situation of pensioners. All this when the Government of the People's Party is burdening the social security coffers with improper expenses that should be assumed by the general imposition, as set out in recommendation No. 1 of the Toledo Pact. We refer, among other things, to reductions and flat rates in the social security contributions, which in 2016 alone amounted to EUR 21 billion, EUR 21 billion that are being paid with the pensioners' money, gnawing you to them 13 million in the case of sisters or 858 million to widows with lower pensions. Madam Minister, in the face of your Government's recalcitrant failure to provide protection for one of the most flagrant situations of unprotective treatment for our pensioners, the one made up of those who, even being a widower's pensioner, are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and without allowing the rest of the parliamentary groups, in this case the Socialist Group, to exercise their legislative power, we have presented this urgent inquiry that we are debating today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Cuello. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from here too, I would like to join our affection and solidarity with all those affected by this railway accident in Andalusia. I would like to begin by thanking you for your inquiry because it gives us the opportunity to reflect again on our pension system in Spain and its evolution in recent years, and in particular on widow's pensions. You told me that you asked me an oral question recently, a few days ago, in which I stated, and today I again ask before all the Members of this House, that the Government is going to process in an imminent manner a real decree to comply with the additional thirty-first provision of Law 27/2011 of 1 August. Moreover, next week it will be hung, as administratively it has to be, on the ministry's website so that this royal decree and its memory can comply with the procedures of public information and know it by economic and social agents, so that from that moment on they can make suggestions and contributions to this new regulation of development of Law 27/2011. We will therefore also comply with Recommendation No. 13 of the Toledo Pact to improve the protection of widowhood pensions in Spain, especially by thinking of those in a situation of greatest vulnerability. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is fulfilling, and it is doing so by giving impetus to new reforms in an intense process over the last few years, which have allowed the most important thing, which I would like to highlight this morning: that Spain should start a recovery by paying more pensions to more pensioners and higher than ever in our history. Also, that we have a recovery where our welfare model, after overcoming a crisis together, has been strengthened and important reforms have been made for the future sustainability of the system, such as those implemented in the years 2011 and 2013. In terms of comparison with the European Union and, according to the services of the European Commission, we are in a more favourable position for this sustainability by the year 2060. On the other hand, it is a system that has allowed substantive improvements to be made in certain groups. It is therefore no small matter that we have emerged from a crisis by strengthening our welfare model, our pensions, ladies and gentlemen, unlike what has happened in countries very close to us in the European Union that you know well how it happened in Portugal, as it happened in Ireland or as it happened in Greece, where pensions with the crisis have fallen to 50%. In our country, not only were the pensions frozen by the last socialist government unfrozen, but they have risen moderately every year, yes, because that is what has allowed us the financial health of the system. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are not suspected of not improving the pensions of our elders because since 2012 they have raised pensions every year and you in 2010 froze them for the first time in our history. Moreover, they intended to do so in the following years, as shown on page 50 of their document Supporting public pensions, in 2013, where they were not only proud to freeze pensions, but asked the People's Party government to do so before implementing other reforms. But we, ladies and gentlemen, have a commitment and a red line to all pensioners in this country and it is that since we govern pensions will be raised every year to the extent permitted by the system we have. Therefore, Your Honor, we are beginning this recovery, as I told you, with good data for the health of Social Security. More pensions are paid, 600 000 more than in 2011, to more pensioners and higher than ever, since the average retirement pension is now at EUR 1069, 16% more than in 2011 and, as I said, pensions have risen every year. That makes us one of the best social security systems in the world, and the government does not say so, as the European Commission said in its last report. Look, it says that in relation to the amount. Why? Because, according to the Commission, Spain is the second most generous European country in pensions, i.e. the pension that remains according to the last salary. Note that the replacement rate in Spain is 8.4 points higher than in France, 15 points higher than in Germany and 20 points higher than the EU average. And the commitment and effort of the entire society to pensioners is important because the poverty risk rate in recent years has led to the fact that our country's over sixty-five years of age has halved that poverty rate from 23% to 11.4% in 2015. Therefore, the pension system is important because of the amount of pensions it gives, but it is also important because of the extent of contingency it covers and we have done so as a society over decades. We have its system of contribution and solidarity which gives more than forty different benefits and a large range of pensions. We are a country that also has a minimum pension system, which has only eleven countries throughout the European Union, which has a pension supplement for those people who have not completed with working time the ability to have a contributory pension and for that they receive solidarity pension 2.5 million people in Spain. I would also like to say that we have made a collective effort for widow's pensions in our country. Widow's pensions in Spain were frozen in 2010 with the Socialist Party and since governing the People's Party they have risen every year. Today in Spain 2 360 000 widow's pensions are paid, 5% more than before the crisis. The average amount has increased by 29% - it is 647 euros - but if this is important, it is more the coverage that widow's pensions have. Spain is one of the few countries in the Union which has complements for the improvement of widow's pensions. 40.7% of widow's pensions currently have a minimum supplement, as they are people who have not contributed enough to have a contributory pension. Moreover, the widow's pension in our country, thanks to the commitment of Spanish society, is compatible with other income and other pensions, which does not happen in some countries in our environment, and it is something we have to feel legitimately proud of as a society. In Spain, 15% of persons receiving widow's pensions are active and almost 800 000 - one in three - receive another supplementary pension, while in the European Union there are countries where only widow's pension can be paid and which are incompatible with other income or even that pension is temporarily limited. We are proud of the opposite, that the widow's pension is compatible with others and has greater coverage. Moreover, the Spanish Social Security includes the death and survival benefit, within which is the widow's pension, which is a benefit intended to cover the financial needs of the beneficiary in the event of the death of the original person of the benefit, thus avoiding the unprotection of the family unit if the family member was the sole or main income-generating member of the family. In addition, in the case of death and survival benefits, the widow's pension may be added, depending on the age of the children and the economic circumstances, the orphan's pension or that of the family member. Therefore, we are faced with a pension that has broader coverage than that which it has in many countries in our environment. We have also improved in this legislature, by unanimous agreement of this House, widow's pensions by implementing the maternity supplement, which, as you know, is paid by many women in Spain and accounts for up to 15% more of the pension depending on the number of children the worker has contributed to society. 92% of widow's pensions are received by women, as you well know, and that is why the implementation of the maternity supplement since 2015 is very relevant for widow's pension. In this way, our country is at the forefront of Europe, together with France, taking into account the demographic element, in addition to the contributory element, when collecting a pension. This maternity supplement, which is claimed by 310,000 women in Spain, has made it possible for the gender gap in pensions to be reduced by 13 points in two years, something we are also proud of as a Spanish society. It has made it possible that, since 2016, the amount of widow's pensions has increased by more than 6 %. Every day, then, we are strengthening our welfare system, especially because employment is being created intensively, because most pensions are being paid with employment and because new measures are being taken to increase pension coverage in Spain. We are trying to do this by consensus, so, Your Honor, I invite you, within the framework of the Toledo Pact, to continue working together to improve every day, strengthen the sustainability of our system and also to launch new initiatives to strengthen the adequacy of pensions and, in particular, widows' pensions in our country because we want them to be better and more comprehensive every day. Thank you so much. I hope to find you in that constructive dialogue. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u162	Thank you very much, Minister. I now give the floor to Mrs. Cuello Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u163	I am glad, Madam Minister - even if it is not pending - that you will develop this regulation; you also told me the day I asked you the question and I do not know then why you vetoed our initiative, because it is intolerable the situation that these pensioners are currently living in. I believe you are a person of rhetoric; of good rhetoric, but of fulfillment and of zero reality. Minister, according to the Arope Index, the risk of pensioners' poverty has increased by almost 1 point from 2015 to 2016 and by 1.6 since 2014. Something will have to do - I say - with the policies carried out by the government to which you belong, with policies that hit people every month, every day, especially those who benefit from a pension. Our older ones live worse than they did six years ago; they get VAT, IBI, 7% invoicing for light and apply a very high copay and a revaluation rate well below the CPI. Because I'm going to remind you that the establishment of the pharmaceutical copayo since 2012 meant taking more than 900 million out of the pensioners' pocket a year and currently exceeds and along the 1200 million. By the way, how many millions - answer me - have the Government raised as a co-payer for pensioners? - Now you have the reply and you can answer me. It has also removed more than four hundred medicines from the National Health System, medicines that are very suitable for them and are good for them because they have a massive use in the group of pensioners: aspirins, anti-arthritis creams, tears, astringents, antidiarrhea, etc. A withdrawal that was taken advantage of, Mrs Báñez, by the laboratories to increase in some cases up to a hundred percent the price of the same when they were financed by Social Security. Pensioners lose purchasing power because the lowest pensions - you know - rise 1 euro a month, a real misery. Madam Minister, you are boasting of increasing pensions by 0.25 % annually, by 0.25 % which represents an expenditure of EUR 300 million per year of revaluation, while pensioners repay the coffers EUR 12 billion per year. They pay 1200 and receive 300; man, not the accounts of the Great Captain. [[Applauds]] I knew he would tell me again, because he always does, that the socialists freeze pensions, but you and I know that is not true, the socialists climb the lowest pensions every year by 7%, and I remind you that in the worst years of crisis, in the period 2007-2011, the socialist government raised the minimum widow's pension by 40,75 %. More than 31,43 are minimum widow's pensions; therefore, we socialists hardly freeze pensions, as you say. There are several generations of women who have worked but have not contributed, either because they worked as carers in their own home, or because they were working on behalf of others and were never discharged, and the husband dies and remains in the most absolute social unprotected. Today, Mrs. Báñez, you are in debt to those people who receive the widow's pension. Today these people should collect 58% of the regulatory base of their pension. When does the government intend to increase these pensions? I hope that you will comply with what you have said, but that you will comply with it and with deadlines. You've been waiting for six years, Minister, don't you think for a little while? Mrs Báñez, you have failed to comply with the Toledo Pact which proposed a change in the regulation of the widow's pension in order to accommodate protection to the new social realities. It has also failed, if any, to comply with Act No. 27/2011 on updating, adapting and modernizing the social security system, which included the additional provision 30 on the improvement of the widow's pension, in favour of pensioners aged sixty-five years or more who do not receive another public pension. I will end by reminding you, Minister, what I said earlier, that according to the Court of Auditors, bank bailout has cost the public purses more than 60 billion. And his Government vetoed an initiative by the Socialist Group to improve the lives of widows in poverty by just 858 million. Don't you think this is outrageous? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuello. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u165	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, do not give us lessons in the area of pensions because, although you deny it, all Spaniards know that it was the Socialist Party in the government that first froze pensions in Spain in 2010. [[Applauds]] What do you want me to say to him? That a little humility wouldn't hurt him. They also did two things in the last socialist legislature: one, freezing pensions, thus paying the most vulnerable, our elders, the economic crisis. And two, leaving the social security system in deficit, for the loss of more than 3 million jobs, something that this government, together with Spanish society, is always trying to turn it around with responsibility. We have focused on economic recovery and job recovery. You know why? Because today 9 out of 10 euros of pension expenditure in Spain are paid with social contributions, with employment. It is therefore very important that we regain all the jobs lost by the crisis and all focus on this great national goal of reaching the 20 million people working in Spain. This will undoubtedly have and have a very positive impact on the financial health of Social Security. Spain today, as you well know, is the country that creates the most jobs in the European Union, more than double, for example, that France and among all of us have been able to recover 7 out of 10 jobs destroyed by the crisis. But we still have a way to go, and in that endeavour we continue to work. I told him that this new job that has come with the recovery has made it possible, for example, for social contributions to reach the collection of €90 billion by October, the best figure since 2006, because the quotas of the occupied, ladies and gentlemen, grow to 5.19 %, well above the growth of membership, which is at 3.5 %. That's why we're going to get 4423 million more than last year into Social Security. What does that allow us to do? Firstly, to reduce the system's deficit and strengthen the present and future of our pensions and, secondly, to take decisions and expand, for example, the coverage of widow's pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are to comply with the recommendations of the Toledo Pact and improve the pensions of those Spanish citizens who have smaller pensions. That's why we're working in that direction. I have told you before, and I repeat to you again, that next week the royal decree that improves the regulatory basis for widow's pensions up to 60% will start its processing of public information so that contributions can be made by the social partners, but it is already a reality that this government is returning to compliance. A responsible government, which works to ensure that there is more and better pensions in Spain every day, as our elders deserve, ladies and gentlemen, which is for us the great priority of recovery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-29-CD171129.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. At the end of the debate, we shall suspend the meeting until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was twelve and ten minutes on the middle of the day.
