ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u1	The meeting was called to order. We begin with item I of the agenda, on the Government's agreement that, in accordance with Article 15 of Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability, the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for all public administrations and each of their subsectors for the period 2018-2020 and the non-financial expenditure limit of the State budget for 2018 are set. The Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government to present the agreement. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u2	Madam President, good afternoon. The Government today brings to the Congress of Deputies the agreement of the Council of Ministers setting out the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for all public administrations and each of their subsectors for the period 2018-2020. This agreement also includes the State's non-financial expenditure limit for 2018. As on previous occasions the Congress in today's session and eventually the Senate in tomorrow's session will know the government's proposal on the figure publicly disseminated as a spending ceiling, and will discuss it, although I must insist that what is going to be voted on this afternoon are deficit and debt targets, and not the spending limit, which is the sole responsibility of the government. It is equivalent to information in the House, being the first step that the Government has to take, which is the institution that has the responsibility and duty to draft the State Budget Bill, to make it known. What do we bring to the Congress of Deputies this afternoon? We have figures and objectives of deficit, debt, stability and commitment of our public administrations for the period 2018-2020. And as I said before, we also have figures behind that state spending limit. This is the obvious, but it's not what matters most. I'm sure that's not what matters most to your ladies and gentlemen or to the Spaniards. Let's try again and look at what's behind those figures. We will find that what we bring to the House this afternoon is project and future for Spain, the best economic scenario that Spanish society has ever had before it, and that economic scenario - I insist, the best - is the one we have at hand. So, what do we bring to the Congress of Deputies today? How is that future involved in the objectives of budgetary stability? We bring the Government's commitment to employment, to creating millions of jobs. We bring and commit a future where, on the horizon of 2020, which sets the deficit and public debt targets, 20.5 million people will work in Spain and there will be more than 20 million members of Social Security. That is the future we are talking about this afternoon, the future of employment; employment that was not as a result of the economic crisis. That is what we are bringing here, what we are going to debate and what we are going to put to the vote. It will be this employment that will make the pension system sustainable. It will be the new employment that will allow the social security deficit to be corrected downwards. It will be this job that will enable the welfare state in Spain to be consolidated. It will be this employment that will ensure the financing of increasingly high-quality public services without recourse to the public deficit and that will accelerate the reduction of public debt. It is the future of greater employment and well-being and it is the future that we have ahead in this legislature. Today we really present - although it is questionable whether it is today or it was in December - that new draft General State Budgets that facilitates this scenario of economic growth and job creation. I insist that our goal is greater employment and better well-being, and that is the proposal that the Government brings behind these figures of deficit and debt targets to the House. [[Applauds]] All you have to do is take a good look at them. You have to look at them and support them. In doing so, we will share responsibility for their fulfilment, and in that way we will be helping to achieve that goal. Whoever does the opposite will simply be staying out of the end of the crisis tunnel and the hope of all Spaniards, because what we all want is to overcome this crisis and its worst legacy at once. There is no other way to see the figures that we bring to Congress today. The objectives of stability and debt and the spending ceiling lead us to the budgets of 2018, new budgets in which we will insist on consolidating the budgetary policy that is pushing us forward, that is making us overcome the economic crisis and that is allowing us this formidable job creation. Budget policy, together with the structural reforms we have undertaken in the X Legislature, is making us lead economic growth in our European environment, and makes four out of every ten jobs created in the European Union are in Spain. That is what gives us confidence in betting on that future, and what makes the government call the responsibility to bet on these deficit and debt targets, prelude and commitment to the new General Budgets of the State. Five years ago, when I had the honor of representing the government in this rostrum, we felt the ground sinking beneath our feet. We looked to see where we were going in terms of sinking the economic reality of the Spaniards. We looked and hoped to be able to change things and look forward to the future. Ladies and gentlemen, only five years ago, employment sank, public revenues sank, companies sank and broke, and economic growth did not exist; we lived in that recession. Today it is not that we come to the House with a firm ground, no, it is that we are facing the best opportunity for economic growth in our history, because never in the history of Spain had we been able to grow with that job creation. At the same time, this growth is driven by our external sector, our capacity to finance the rest of the world, and therefore by our non-dependence on the resources of the rest of the world to sustain, to strengthen our economic growth. Never in the history of Spain had these elements been combined or, in other words, there had never been such a competitive growth as to allow that current account balance for four long years of economic growth, and I insist that it had never gone to a growth that in terms of social security membership exceeded - according to the last record for the month of June - the 670,000 people. Thus employment is growing by almost 3% and the growth of our gross domestic product - the economic scenario we bring to the House - also by 3% in real terms, something more in nominal terms. But I insist that it is the first time in the history of the Spanish economy, in the history of Spanish society in which with this economic growth we are living such records of job creation. This partnership between growth and employment is so dynamic, it is having so much strength that it itself becomes a driving force for economic growth, which makes it internal demand and investment in our companies, investment in equipment of our companies and increasingly the construction combined with the increase in the spending of our families that are feeding this so vigorous growth at the head of the big countries of the European Union, and at the same time as healthy, as balanced as the one we are living in. That makes us not particularly concerned that there are clouds that prevent through storms the continuity of this economic growth, because virtually the only thing that could prevent such healthy and job-creating economic growth would be political reason. Let us see how this afternoon that political reason is overcome through the votes of the responsible political groups. We can therefore effectively make this afternoon another window open to confidence, in the hope that we can say that in the course of three years we will have finally ended the economic crisis in Spain. It does not need to be remembered that Spain has not historically been a country that can boast of its balance of payments, or at least has not been so far. We have spent decades living what is the confrontation of our economic reality with that balance of payments, practically since the Stabilization Plan of 1959, and on this occasion, on this journey we are doing now we have current account surplus, and four years with current account surplus, more than five years with financing capacity vis-à-vis the rest of the world. Therefore, if the Government's forecasts to this House are met, by 2020 we will have had the economic growth path with the largest current account surplus in our history, eight years of economic growth with the current account surplus, something that had never happened in the economic history of Spain. And that's new, and that's what the Spaniards are learning; it's new, but it's the healthiest and most reassuring thing that can happen to us, and it's what gives us the greatest strength and the most hope to face the future. But we also have to ask ourselves what has brought us here; what has brought us to that job-creating growth compatible with that surplus of our balance of payments: structural reforms have brought us; labour reform has brought us; the reform of the banking sector has brought us; the energy reform has brought us; the reform of education has brought us in its early stages; the reform of public administrations, developed and developed during the 10th Legislature; a budgetary policy such as that which we have developed in Spain, which is not compatible with the reduction of the public deficit, but the reduction of the public deficit has become the engine of economic growth and the boost of job creation. As we reduce that public deficit, and we achieve the great goal set out in that 2020 approach, which is to eliminate the deficits of our public administrations, and as we confirm that that is feasible, what we do is we reduce the level of public debt. The Government's programme is to reduce gross domestic product by 7 percentage points by 2020; more than €70 billion in public debt reduction, which will free up the financing capacity of our economic growth, make us progress, give us new impetus and facilitate this economic recovery. The year 2020, which is the new year in the current process of debt deficit targets, is the year of budgetary balance, where all public administrations, with the exception of Social Security, will see their deficit drastically reduced, but also Social Security for the simple and convincing reason that there will be more than 20 million Spaniards working and contributing to Social Security, and we can therefore say that we have finally overcome the crisis. What we cannot say is that we are going back to the policies that led us to the crisis. That is what we cannot say and we must not say as a corollary, as a colophon, as some wish, that what they are hoping is that others will fix the crisis to come and do the same as they did in the recent past and carry on the worst crisis that Spain has experienced. That is what we must draw as learning and as a conclusion of what it means to correct the crisis we are experiencing in our country. That is also what we bring with the proposed state spending limit, a 1.3% growth in state spending, a growth that will be destined for the vast majority to finance passive classes, the rights of officials in their retirement, the new rights, and also the rise in the salaries of public officials, for which we will call on the trade unions to negotiate for the preparation of the next General State Budgets. He said that it is a ceiling of expenditure or a ceiling of expenditure of the State that grows by 1.3%, which means - in relation to the rule of expenditure there is something below that growth - about 1497 million euros that will allow us to reduce the deficit of the State, which is programmed as the greatest reduction of all the subsectors of our public administrations, insisting that what dominates in the spirit of this first step of elaboration of the General Budgets of the State is to facilitate the financing of our territorial administrations, of our autonomous communities, whose 70 % length of expenditure goes to education, health and social protection, and to finance social expenditure more and more priority, as is already done in the General Budgets of the State that this House approved and that have entered into force in the year 2017. The proposal that we bring to the House, in terms of the breakdown of deficit targets, adding 2020 - the addition, at the time when most public administrations go into budgetary equilibrium, should also not contain any more secrecy - is the one that was already voted in the Chamber of Deputies on 15 December last year, where I have to remind you that the vote that was recorded in this House reached 251 votes in favour of the proposal that the Government was carrying, which I myself, as a member of the Government, tabled, that proposal for deficit targets. The new proposal that we bring modifies in the sense of flexibilizing a tenth upwards the objectives of our autonomous communities, both for 2018 and 2019. The proposal, therefore, as a result - as I have already explained publicly in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council - of the political negotiations, makes it easier for the average of our autonomous communities to be placed on the programmed path of deficit targets. My question, which is not rhetorical, is this: if what the Government brings to the House is a correction upwards of the deficit targets of our autonomous communities, the half governed by the Socialist Party, what is the argument that the spokespersons who are going to oppose this proposal will put forward, when they voted in favour of more demanding targets in 2016? I will sit down and listen carefully to these arguments, but I hope that they are sufficiently explicit and convincing, because the truth is that it does not seem reasonable that part of those ladies and gentlemen who voted in favour of this House, making it possible to reach the maximum - I insist - historical - a voting register had never been reached in favour of the 251-vote government proposal, tell us that this is very different. No, very different is not, it is a goal in favour of the autonomous communities of rising deficit. We will listen to all the arguments in spirit and constructive spirit, as the debates in this House have to be. I would like to emphasise to you that the proposal for objectives of stability and expenditure ceiling that we are debating today is objectively better than last December, and comes as well as then accompanied by new developments that will improve the lives of people with lower incomes and more economic difficulties. Another thing is that those who wish to remain outside of this proposal will try to offer another kind of argument, but I hope that they will be of sufficiently explicit content, since what we are dealing with among all the components of this House is to consolidate, through the reduction of the public deficit, the objectives of deficit, of debt of our public administrations and - I said - to boost economic growth and job creation. At this point - already in the summer - of 2017 the public deficit of all of our public administrations of 3,1 %, which seemed unattainable when we were voting the deficit targets in mid-December - I remember that we closed last year in the 4,3 % deficit of them -, today seems to be such an achievable goal that just... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u3	One second, Minister. Quiet, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u4	Thank you, President. ... no institution, either within or outside Spain, questions today that we will achieve that target of 3.1%. Moreover, we have heard the Commissioner responsible for economic and monetary affairs, Mr Moscovici, say that Spain will surely be below 3% in 2018, and will be in that 2.2% target we are proposing. This proposal is the one that will allow Spain to exit the excessive deficit procedure, after almost ten years of staying in it, and it will do so by complying with all the rules, with all the standards of European governance, something that will favor the application in Spain of national policies; policies in line with what we are doing in recent years; policies that will allow, together with the priority dedication of social spending, to promote more economic growth through more investment and improvement of the large public services, which are the basis of equal opportunities for Spaniards. This is therefore the project brought by the Government: that Spain should exit the excessive deficit procedure. The political pacts that are leading us towards this goal are not that they are perfectly compatible, it is that they are all ordered towards the achievement of this objective of correction of the public deficit, that Spain - as it is, member of the euro, loyal partner with European governance, and ultimately committed as it is to the project of European integration - fulfils its commitments of correction of the deficit. Those commitments are the ones that will allow us - I insist - from next year onwards to meet with the genuine national policy that will enable us to give the priorities that of course will mark this Parliament and the Senate as the highest representation and delegation of popular sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen, we are obviously bringing into this House objective agreements behind the proposal. I would like publicly to thank the meaning of bringing it with those agreements; agreements in which the political groups that supported the General Budgets of the State for 2017 have been in; agreements that are an exponent of a dialogue government, of a government that, as you know, has returned to address all the groups in this House in order to try to reach agreements that are ever wider, more consolidated. So what I want to do is, first of all, to recognize the political groups that are going to occupy this rostrum this afternoon by supporting the Government's proposal, and I want to do so in the sense that the Government certainly aspired to such support as it had in December last year. That support is not possible today - we will see this afternoon how we all explain ourselves publicly - something has happened in Spanish politics that makes that support not feasible, not possible, and I am sorry to say so. But this means the Government's greater recognition of the groups that have been ready for dialogue, of the groups that have gone with the People's Party in the last general elections - UPN, Forum -, of the groups that have made it possible to seriously consolidate the investiture of the President of the Government, President Rajoy - Citizens, Coalition Canaria -, of the groups with which we are negotiating fluently, as we are demonstrating, with the orderly defense of our capacities and our priorities and within the institutional normality of Spain, such as the PNV, and of groups such as New Canarias, which supported the General Budgets of the State and, therefore, did a great exercise in favour of economic recovery in the Canary Islands and throughout Spain. This afternoon I again invite all political groups to dialogue, to prepare for the meeting and, in particular, to support the Government's proposal. I reiterate my gratitude for the determination, generosity, State vision, loyalty and commitment to stability that are being provided by political groups that make it possible for the Government to bring its project to this House. I want to appreciate the commitment of these political groups to the Spanish, because without that determination, without that generosity, without that vision and without that loyalty, the political stability that we are being able to articulate and build in Parliament would not be possible. We could not be helping so many people, hundreds of thousands of people who have achieved their work in recent months and years, nor could we please all those who are going to find it in the coming months and years, and therefore we could not say that we are committed to improving public services or that we are working on reforming our tax system to continue to favour precisely those taxpayers who have less income. We cannot abandon this path, ladies and gentlemen, and there is no greater reward than the one we are getting to do together so many for so many. Thank you very much, ma'am. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u5	Thank you very much. It has called for the use of the turn against the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Saura García. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Montoro... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u7	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Montoro, do you know what one of the big problems of this spending ceiling, this deficit path is? [[A Member of Parliament: You!]] The problem, after the Constitutional Court's ruling on the tax amnesty, about your tax amnesty, is you, because you should not continue to be a Minister of Finance of the Government. [[Applauds]] Furthermore, Mr Montoro, you should not bring any more spending ceilings or deficit paths to this Congress of Deputies, because what the Constitutional Court has said is that you do not comply with the constitutional principles, for example, that of tax justice, that of tax equity, because you treat defrauders and evaders better than normal taxpayers in this country. That is why the great problem of this spending ceiling and of this deficit path is you, who should not continue to be Minister of Finance. [[Applauds]] The second problem of this deficit path, of this deficit target, which we do not agree with, Mr Montoro, is that the path chosen to make the adjustment goes entirely on the side of social expenditure and productive expenditure, so that the adjustment for the next year is going to be around EUR 9 billion, because the economy is going to grow around 4.5 in nominal terms and our country's social and productive expenditure is not going to be above 2.4, mainly because the expenditure ceiling is far below the expenditure rule of 2.4. And that is why, Mr Montoro, the macroeconomic data do not reach the majority of citizens, mainly because the jobs that are created are of poor quality, wages are of misery and the welfare state is cut because growth does not reach those social policies that were cut earlier. That is why macroeconomic data do not reach the majority of citizens. Last year, to be compared, much of the adjustment was made on the income side, changing tax revenues, particularly corporate tax, breaking down the maximum contribution bases and raising the inter-professional minimum wage at a time - the biggest rise at once in democracy - to raise the income of all public bodies, but primarily of Social Security. The adjustment this year, for the year 2018, is done exclusively on the side of public expenditure. And you will ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen, why does the government make all the adjustment on the side of public spending? Why did you undo what you did the previous year? I will explain this to you clearly, ladies and gentlemen: because the Spanish right wants public expenditure, minimum social expenditure; what it wants is subsistence expenditure, that is what it wants. In the end, you want public spending to be 38% of GDP. That is the objective: the company of 38%. In terms of the welfare state, what you want, ladies and gentlemen, is for us to be like Latvia or perhaps like Lithuania or Romania, but not like Denmark, because what you want is to make public spending go to 38%, just like income, 38% in relation to GDP. In addition, the right now comes promising tax breaks, and they compare them to carrots, listen, but they don't tell us about the stick. They don't talk about sticks, they don't talk about cuts in the welfare state, they don't talk about cuts in scholarships or health policy or investments to reduce waiting lists or to reduce school failure. They don't tell us about those sticks. They tell us about the carrot, but they don't tell us about the horse fit on the welfare side of the state. And in that, ladies and gentlemen, with your carrots, the lords of Citizens come. To what? To pose a patch in the IRPF, so that the IRPF will be converted by now... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u9	Quiet. One second, Mr. Saura. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent, which does not listen to the speaker. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u10	As I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, in the end the IRPF is going to become a Frankenstein, because, far from making an in-depth reform of the IRPF, what we continue to do is to put patches. But the most serious thing is not that; the most serious thing is that the 8 million income they have the least are not only not going to benefit from these carrots, but they are going to lose as a result of the adjustment that has to be made in the welfare state, because those 8 million Spaniards who have the least are the ones who benefit most from it. We are talking about the Spaniards who are in the deciles with less income: the one, the two, the three; there are those who do not benefit in the four and also in the five and, however, will have cuts in the welfare state. Why not make an in-depth reform of the IRPF so that these incomes, which are the least they have, do not suffer cuts from the welfare state? Why a new patch? Why not a thorough reform? Social democracy proposes, in order to reduce inequalities, not to reduce or deteriorate the benefits of a universal nature, but to improve them, to increase them, and for that we need not to increase the public deficit but to reform taxes in depth. For example, we have shown that by 2018, with two concrete reforms, cuts can be reduced by EUR 5600 million, for example by making corporate tax for large groups a minimum of 15% cash and raising rates to capital income for those with a tax base of more than EUR 150 000. With this we can perfectly obtain €56 billion so that the welfare state cut is smaller and, above all, ladies and gentlemen, so that those 8 million that they have less do not lose the welfare state they need to meet their needs. A third problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the autonomous communities. In the discussion of the previous expenditure ceiling and deficit target, we showed that the autonomous communities would have to have an additional EUR 5 billion so that they did not have to make cuts. By 2018, however, the autonomous communities will have to make adjustment plans for €25 billion. Look at the difference from last year: the autonomous communities could have more than 5 billion in order not to make cuts and now they will have to make cuts of 25 billion euros. Because, Mr Montoro, the tenth magic is part of the series of films 'Montoro and fiscal trilerism', so that I give you one tenth on the one hand and I take it off on the other; that is, I give you one tenth with a slightly larger deficit target, but, as it turns out that the tax reform agreed will be worth around EUR 2 billion - that is what we have been told through the media - more than half have to be paid by the autonomous communities. Then, Mr. Montoro, on the one hand I give you a tenth magic and on the other I take it away. Traps at this point, after you've been Minister of Finance for five years, none. A fourth problem, Mr Montoro, has to do with the spending ceiling. You didn't want to change the spending rule, a rule that you agreed with us that would have to change in the first semester. He agreed with the autonomous communities and with the municipalities, but has again failed. There is a fifth problem, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, which is the height of the government's sluggish attitude towards deficit targets. The peak of the spurt, the pathetic, is how the social security deficit target is calculated and recalculates for next year. If it was already difficult to reach the 1.2 deficit, when this year's Social Security, only Social Security, ends in 2 points of GDP, 1.1 will be virtually impossible. Look, Mr. Montoro, social security with you is pure adventure. Paying pensions in the future with your policy is pure adventure. They ended up with the Social Security Reserve Fund, they are borrowing to pay the overtime and, as the accounts do not match, pensioners are losing purchasing power; 10% are going to lose between 2017 and 2022. Mr. Montoro, that's what happens to pensions. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. With a structural inequality in our country, with incomes that do not reach the welfare state, with a major financial problem in Social Security, you embrace what the Republican American right says about the fact that money is in the citizens' pocket. No; the key is not that money is in the citizens' pocket, Mr Montoro; the key is what pocket the money is in, and many citizens have no money in their pocket. Please explain the truth, because if your goal is to reach 38% of GDP expenditure, that means that public pensions now and in the future are going to be miserable, that is, they are going to take money out of the pensioners' pocket and put it in the pocket of higher incomes. That's the key. Tell the whole truth, the carrot and also the stick. We are going to vote against, firstly, because everything that was raised last year is being undone, that is, that the adjustment comes on the income side, and secondly, because that deficit target and that deficit and debt path are drawing a model of unsustainable and unjust society with which we do not agree. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u11	At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rebate, just six months ago we proposed here that our parliamentary group was against the spending ceiling for 2017, but not only this, but that we were against the tax logic with which you articulate the entire budgetary process. And it is that at a time when you fill your mouth of recovery, talking about spending ceiling is tremendously linked to austerity policies. It is a contradiction to talk about economic growth and employment expansion, as you do, and at the same time to continue to design budgetary policy from the logic of austerity. At the moment, instead of talking about spending ceilings, we should be talking about how to reverse the cuts that have taken place in this country since 2011, we should be talking about how to guarantee a solid revenue base that would enable the welfare state and public investments to be financed, essentially because that falls within its competence, essentially because that is also budgetary policy and you basically pass it through the lining. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u13	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u14	I repeat to you what I said to you six months ago: You assume a wrong logic and contrary to the principles of budgetary logic and even common sense. Just as you can't start a house on the roof, you can't start to square public accounts by talking about the spending ceiling, because the only conclusion only has cuts, cuts and cuts or, failing that, consolidation of all the cuts that have occurred so far. The real budgetary problem of this country, Minister, and you know it as well as I do, are the eight points of difference in terms of GDP that we have in terms of revenue compared to the euro area average. It is not public spending that needs to be roofed, so I think you should worry about raising more and cutting less; in that way, miraculously, I would see how the economy is stimulated in a more intense way, unless you worry that this point is appropriated by Mr De Guindos, because lately the relationship between you is nothing more than regular. So stop cheating on the solitaire and let's talk about how to secure an income floor that will finance the welfare state and ensure healthy public finances for the future. It makes no sense for him to come and tell us about the spending ceiling when this spending ceiling for this year is still 3.5 billion lower than in 2016, it is even lower than in 2013, the worst year of the crisis. What are we left with, Minister? Are we getting out of the crisis or not? Because if we're getting out of the crisis, it doesn't make sense for you to presume below what was supposed to be at the worst time of the crisis. My group - you know - makes an alternative proposal in both budgetary and revenue terms. We see the need for a fiscal expansion of 19.5 billion, which would create more jobs and quality, reduce inequalities and reorient the productive model. To do so is relatively simple, and if you have it well we explain it to you: raising the income floor of the economy, covering the inadequacies of our tax system, which has holes like Gruyère cheeses, increasing the progression of it, not falling into the hands of Citizens and in its regressive proposal and, above all, slowing down the deficit figure for the year 2018. No one forces us to have a deficit of 2.2% for that year, no one. We can stay at the 3% limit, because those tenths allow us to consolidate rights, reverse cuts and have a better society for all. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u15	Thank you very much. Also for the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Economist Joan Robinson, a brilliant economist - probably if she had been a man instead of a woman would have received the Nobel Prize - said that economics had to be studied to avoid being deceived by economists. We could paraphrase it to say that economics must be studied in order to avoid being deceived by Mr Montoro, mainly because what he has presented here today is an absolute deception, not only in terms of the criticism that the colleague, Alberto Montero, has rightly made, but because the spending ceiling has been accompanied by a speech according to which, thanks to an agreement of Citizens and the People's Party, the economic capacity of the popular classes is improved, since, as taxes are lowered, they will have more money. A very simple pedagogical effort must be made. Let us imagine that Mr Montoro removes all taxes from the popular classes, all of them, not just the $2 billion, but all of them. On the one hand, the popular classes would have more money in their pockets, obviously, but on the other hand, since there are no taxes, public services could not be financed: health, education, pensions and social benefits. Thus, the popular classes, with more money in their pockets, would have more difficulty accessing those services, which would now be private and much more expensive. What Mr Montoro has managed to do with Mr Rivera and Citizens has been to put a little bit of money in the citizens' left pocket and to steal it from the right pocket. It has diverted resources from the welfare State to be able to finance it and is thus hindering the living conditions of the social majority. This is not new; it is the nineteenth-century model, the model of the liberals of 1812, to which so much reference is made Citizens; it is the model of nineteenth-century liberalism and it is to what any reform characterized by the lowering of taxes tends, that is, sold in such a grandiose and false discursive way at the same time. It is not by chance that wages in their broad sense include direct wages, deferred wages and indirect wages, i.e. pensions and the ability to access public services cheaper than if they were private. This is what you are not quoting; indeed, you are lowering the capacity of the State to have quality public services. In any case, they are giving money to people with whom, paradoxically, they will have more difficulty accessing those services that they can access today thanks to the welfare state system. It is an incoherent policy, because, as we have repeated many times, we do not have a problem of expenditure, but of income, and when income is lowered and the problem gets worse. That is why it is inconsistent and at the same time counterproductive. The crises in the capitalist economic system are cyclical and that means that you are reducing the capacity to intervene in a future economic crisis, whether it be recession or simply reduction of economic activity, so that you are already looking for the excuse for further cuts. Reform is unfair, counterproductive and inconsistent, but above all it is an immense liberal lie against the popular classes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u17	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u18	President, ladies and gentlemen, after the last elections we had in this country, Citizens had essentially two options. One was to bet on what some bet, which was to go to a third election and bet on instability in a country with 20% unemployment, with a hundred percent debt, with the whole planet looking at us to see if they could or could not continue to finance our gigantic debt and, by the way, disregarding the will expressed twice by the citizens. We had that option or we had an alternative option, which was to bet on stability and try to reach agreements following the citizens' mandate and assuming the cost of supporting a party we didn't like. We decided to bet on stability in exchange for a very simple thing: that there would be real changes and reforms in this country. We ask for changes in three lines essentially. We talk about the labour market, to try to address the problems of the generalized 'precariate' in which we live in our country; we talk about and agree on reforms in education and innovation to lay the foundations for a viable growth model in the world of globalization; and we talk about regeneration, to start changing the rottenness that had been installed in our country for so many years. Then they will explain to us - although they have already had a chance and have not - what others have achieved. We, in the year we have been in the legislature, have achieved a quarter of the measures to which we had committed ourselves and which we had demanded from the Government. In the field of work - I do not need to explain this, because we have explained it many times - we have achieved a wage supplement, the orange wage supplement, which will benefit some 600 000 young people at a zero cost and will be subject to training. We have a law of self-government in place that will benefit more than 3 million self-government families who have been abandoned for a decade in our country. In addition, the approval of the training cheque, with more than 1 billion, was recently signed, which will make it possible to put an end to a system of active policies that has been completely unsuccessful for years and to give the money directly to the workers so that they themselves can choose how to train themselves. We have paternity permits. We have all that concretely specifically with direct and real benefits for people and expressed in budgets. [[Applauds]] In addition, in the field of education, we have achieved the Prefe Programme against school drop-out; in the field of innovation we have the foundations of a technology transfer Cervera network to improve the connection between SMEs and universities; in the field of regeneration, we have a comprehensive anti-corruption law, a package under way against amicable capitalism to regain the independence of regulators, research commissions and could go on for a while. In this last negotiation of the spending ceiling that we have maintained with the Government, we have followed exactly the same approach. We have said: we are prepared to bring stability, but we will do so in return for improvements. It is a macroeconomicly favourable environment. Since we made the agreement until today economic growth has improved, public revenues have improved substantially and, moreover, for the first time in many years - you will have to acknowledge it, Mr Montoro - the deficit target will be met with an adjustment of 15 billion; we will reach 3.1% marked with all these reforms achieved by Citizens. Therefore, stability and changes. But, as I say, we have called for stability in exchange for a very important thing to approve this so-called spending ceiling, a necessary tax reduction for the milleurists of this country. Unfortunately, some consider this type of tax rebate for regressive milleurists; that is the interpretation of the new progressiveism that we have in our country. [[Applauds]] The tax rebate is very simple to understand. Until recently workers earning up to EUR 12 000 did not pay IRPF and now up to EUR 14 000 will not pay IRPF and those earning between EUR 14 000 and EUR 17 000 will pay less. In addition, there is something else that Mr. Montero and Mr. Garzón should consider regressive, and that is that there will be concrete returns for these horrible families of fascist and oppressive capitalism, which are the families that have dependents, who are over eighty years old in charge, who have numerous families; that is the kind of regressive policies that we do in Citizens. [[Applauds]] At this point, after a year, citizens may want to reflect. Then you will wonder what We can, that party of the people, with its seventy-two deputies - more than twice as many as we have - to improve the lives of the precarious, of the young, of the dependent. What have you got? Absolutely nothing, I can tell you that. [[Applauds]] The worst is not that it's just Podemos, it's not that the PSOE has achieved anything either. Mr. Saura used to talk about sticks and carrots. I will tell you, Mr Saura, what you have achieved, neither sticks nor carrots, nothing, to be absolutely irrelevant. [[Applauds]] I wonder what they will tell the autonomous communities in which they govern if they are not to have - as we have done by supporting the last budget - funding for health and education, the 5 billion. What will they explain to the citizens? Will you tell them no, I'm sorry, I'm high fist, I'm really progressive? Is that what they'll explain to you? I also wonder what they would explain to Europe, because I imagine they are still Europeanists. It is true that they are now against international trade, but the Socialist Party must still be a Europeanist. What would they say to Mr Moscovici if we continued to be not only the country with the most deficit in the European Union, but also if we had not managed to adopt budgets? That is the kind of policies that the so-called authentic leftist progressives of our country are offering us. On the contrary, we will continue to bet on stability and on the changes to improve this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u19	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u20	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Montoro, we are going to oppose the deficit targets presented today. Nor do we like the spending ceiling that presents us today because we consider it absolutely unfair at the social and territorial level because, as we are used to, they again carry the full weight of adjustment in the autonomous communities, which are the ones that concentrate the highest percentage of social spending. In addition, they do so again in breach of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, because its first transitional provision - as the Minister is well aware - states that the distribution of objectives between the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities will be made taking into account the structural deficit of each administration on 1 January 2012. If this criterion is followed, the whole of the autonomous communities would have a deficit target for 2018 of 0.8 % and not 0.4 % of the GDP that you propose to us today and, applying the criteria that you apply, would have to all the autonomous communities, also those governed by the People's Party. This statement not only makes it Republican Left, but has also been endorsed by Airef over the years. Now, Minister, this week you have had to rectify, you have been forced to amend your initial proposal and increase it by one tenth. Thanks to this immense generosity - and I say it in half - we have increased from 0,3 % to 0,4 %. That is true, at the cost of the deficit - as someone pointed out earlier - of Social Security and not of the General Administration of the State, which never touches anything; and far, of course, from that 0.8% which would be ours. It is, therefore, a constant that we continue to denounce from Esquerra Republicana, the systematic failure by the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to comply with its own laws; that is, what you point out all day to the independenceists turns out that the Government of the Kingdom of Spain fails to comply with its own laws. In addition, we are going to denounce a shameful institutional disloyalty with regard to Catalonia and the rest of the autonomous communities, because it is you who have the greatest capacity - the General Administration of the State - to adjust your accounts and, in this way, what you are doing is to impose disproportionate adjustments on already poorly financed autonomous communities. Again, what you are doing with this process is forcing the autonomous communities to maintain the social cuts - to cut them and to maintain the social cuts - while authorizing the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to continue to generate deficits beyond their possibilities. As always, they stifle the social spending of the autonomous communities, even though you know that this social spending has been increased in recent years because of the crisis, yes, but also because of their economic and labour policies and their social cuts, while you, the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, continue to waste in arms, in deficit miles of high speed, in the rescue of Madrid's radial highways; paying the debts of friendly oligopolies, such as banking or electricity; paying the disasters of their entrepreneurial friends, such as Castor and Mr Florentino; or maintaining oversized ministries as long as they no longer have many competences, such as the one of Culture or Health; that is, that you maintain superfluous state spending while imposing social cuts on the autonomous communities. They are knowingly taking unfair decisions which, in addition, harm citizens. They also apply deficit targets uniformly to all autonomous communities, imposing, once again, this centralist vision without taking into account the level of competence that each of them has, so that they punish those autonomous communities with the highest level of competence, in this case Catalonia, which has competences that want to assume them and that want to have more. Coffee for all, which is also in the distribution of deficit targets, without taking into account - as I said - social spending, without taking into account the competences of each of the autonomous communities, turns out to be an unfair decision that has nothing to do with external factors or external to the action and decision of Minister Montoro. Here neither the teluric forces nor the destiny nor the hand of God are involved; it has nothing to do with it; they are not responsible for these deficit objectives approved by the Government of the Kingdom of Spain. The main architect and responsible is you, Minister; you, Mr Montoro. This means a clear boycott by the Spanish Government of the Catalan economy, of Catalan citizenship, of all Catalan citizenship, which is also voted for by you. The distribution made by his Government was totally arbitrary without corresponding to any other objective criteria known, beyond the interests that they might have in administration; nor in relation to the weight of the expenditure of each Administration, nor taking into account or considering the possibilities of adjustment according to the type of expenditure. Mr Montoro and the rest of the People's Party, apply the austerity that they preach and stop giving lessons and tightening nuts to those communities that, like Catalonia, have an economic and financial efficiency that they should take example of. It is curious - I said earlier - that in all these years the central Government, the General Administration of the State, has made no effort to contain, as they have had to, have done, and the municipalities and the autonomous communities have tightened their belts. In short, Mr Montoro, we believe that your proposal is one more trap. He is playing with the money of the citizens doing a sort of auction or permanent tombol, offering to right-handed and sinister what he wants to get support for what is already an advance in the approval of the 2018 budgets. We remind you that you are a public money manager, not your owner. On the other hand, with this deficit target - Madam President, I am going to end - and with tax cuts you are giving up getting higher incomes and empowering the welfare state. We are not in favour of lowering taxes, but of redistributing them and changing the tax burden, of lowering taxes to low and middle incomes. But this reduction must be duly compensated for by the increase in taxes on higher incomes, large fortunes, and by the pursuit of fraudsters and tax evaders. Income cuts mean social cuts and the level of quality of services. In short, they harm the lower incomes, which you claim to benefit. In any case, the deficit targets that you will adopt today are another example of the incoherent economic policy of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, of the government supported by the People's Party, to which we, the Republican Left, will today vote against and to which the citizens of Catalonia will be able to say goodbye by voting on 1 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u22	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The procedure for setting deficit and debt targets is, as the Minister has said, a preliminary framework for the subsequent preparation and approval of budgets. Minister, today we have the Government's proposal to fix the budgetary stability and public debt target for the period 2018-2020, a target aimed at reducing the public deficit committed to the European institutions. I have to mention that, although the deficit target for all administrations remains, in just a few days there has been a shift in the reduction of the deficit of the autonomous communities, from 0.3% to 0.4%, which in principle gives them a little more respite despite the fact that they also follow the expenditure rule. This group further understands that deficit and debt targets have been unevenly distributed over the past few years among the State, the autonomous communities and local corporations. Moreover, these objectives are symmetrical, uniform for all of them, without taking into account the different economic position, the different economic growth between them or, in the case of the outlying autonomous communities, their fiscal autonomy, which allows them to make spending decisions financed by increases in the taxes they regulate. Each administration has a different economic and budgetary situation, and therefore a differentiated deficit level should be allowed. In short, discriminating the public deficit of each community according to the real situation, although I understand that this would require greater coordination and solidarity, and I do not know if it is generally the work. The deficit and debt targets, moreover, entail the setting of the expenditure ceiling, which, although it has been extended from last year by three tenths and together with the new objective of stability, will allow the autonomous communities to make somewhat more expansive budgets, remains a limit to be governed by the budget of each institution, a budget that must be an effective economic policy instrument so that after dealing with current payments and social obligations are used to encourage job creation and investment in those sectors that are more competitive. The setting of the expenditure ceiling is an instrument of budgetary technique. Once the revenue for the year is estimated, budgetary expenditure is calculated, which allows the achievement of the stability objective, so a higher level of income would allow a higher expenditure limit, provided of course that the stability objective was met. Therefore, the focus should not necessarily be on expenditure, but also on income, on knowing or verifying whether the estimates are correct and on improving the tax collection deficit. On the other hand, I want to focus on one aspect that remains of concern to us, and it is no other than the expenditure rule, a rule that is beneficial for the fulfilment of the objectives that have been allocated to Spain, but that in turn limits the powers of the autonomous communities and municipalities because it limits their management capacity, as it obliges each of the administrations not to spend more in each year than it spent in the previous year, increased by a percentage that is the increase in nominal GDP in the medium term, that is, the rate of potential growth of the economy, a rate that in some autonomous communities is lower than the real potential for growth in the medium term. It is a rule that was decided in 2012 in a scenario that has little to do with the current one, with a growing economy after years of adjustment and that is more restrictive than that of the Union itself in terms of its methodology and its application. The big difference is that in Europe it does not apply until the state has opened an excessive deficit procedure. The application of the expenditure rule, as provided for in the Stability Act, may result in public administrations approaching the budgetary balance, i.e. that they meet the deficit targets, in an imposition of a more restrictive public expenditure than would be compatible with the deficit target, i.e. a deficit lower than that set by the stability target. The existence of this rule limits expenditure growth, resulting in a greater surplus, surplus that can only be used to amortize debt or, provided that the expenditure rule is respected, is intended for financially sustainable investments. We believe that this flexibility is insufficient once the deficit and debt targets have been met by public administrations, and therefore that all savings should be able to be used to improve economic growth. We are aware that we are still in a rather complex situation and therefore the balance between improving economic growth, the quality of life of people with expansive policies and balancing accounts until there is a deficit makes it difficult to make decisions, but despite this our group asks you, Minister, to be aware of the above aspects, to rethink the drafting of the Stability Act in the medium term and to take into account the possibility of setting different targets, as well as what is said for the expenditure rule. Deficit and debt limits remain hard limits that will continue to require rigour. The recovery and consolidation of the spirit of bilaterality of the economic concert, through meetings between the Basque and central governments, enabled us to agree with you last year on the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt and has been an important factor, together with the agreement on the quota reached in May, for the approval of those set out in the agreement we are debating today. We trust that there will continue to be a strong will to comply with what was set out in the economic concert and that we can continue to hold meetings within this climate of cordiality and mutual institutional respect. That is why, and with all these qualifications, our group is going to vote in favour, because we value that in a climate of bilaterality, cordiality and mutual institutional respect we will be able to have the opportunity to come closer to positions until we achieve a much more rational application of the rules and adjusted to our own social and economic reality. And because we are also aware of the limitations of European governance, the current difficult environment and the need for economic stability. In short, being positive for Euskadi, for coherence and responsibility. We understand that negotiation and agreement must be the norm and not the exception, and this is also the message that citizens have given us. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u24	Thank you, President. Minister, very briefly. One more year we will have to vote against this distribution of deficit targets and I will remind you why. For the same reason as always: non-compliance with the first transitional provision of the Budget Stability Act. Remember, what we agreed; we voted in favour of the Budget Stability Act for that transitional provision. What are they doing with this year's deficit target distribution? For the central administration and social security - the areas of your responsibility - you reserve 82% of all deficit targets. The autonomous communities are given 18%, when they are managing 33% of public expenditure in the Spanish State; only 18%. This is with the distribution of this budget year, but let us see what has happened. Years 2011 to 2016, closed exercises. Of all the deficit reduction that has occurred in the Spanish State, 4.8 points, who has generated it? I'll explain. Autonomous Communities, 52 %; local corporations, 22 % and central administration and social security only 25 %. It is therefore clear that the deficit targets are for them to be strictly assumed by the autonomous communities. I do not resist to read to you - you know that I do not normally read - a paragraph of the agreement that you are considering today, that agreement of 7 July that corrects the one of 3 July, and that I like to define as the fantastic week. What's happened to the fantastic week? This happens in the fantastic week - and I read it textually - from 3 to 7 July: The evolution of the financial situation, both of the Social Security and of the whole of the autonomous communities, advises to reconsider the distribution of the deficit objectives that was contemplated in that agreement. This, July 3rd. In other words, from 3 to 7 July the financial situation of Social Security and the Autonomous Communities has evolved in such a way as to allow for a change of one tenth. What do we see? That the distribution of deficit targets is absolutely arbitrary, does not meet any criteria and that if one tenth can be changed in four or five days, four tenths could be changed in one month. They have already been told: it would be up to the autonomous communities to double the deficit targets they are being allocated. So, once again, we are going to vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a preliminary point. Yesterday we learned of the liquidation of the financing system of 2015 that will be incorporated in the arks, in our case the Generalitat, and that this figure, together with the ordinary financing system, re-places the Valencian Community as the worst financed. Yesterday, in a tweet, Mr Barrachina, PP Member for Castellón, took the license to say that the Valencian Community receives additional funding when we actually receive loans. In addition, let me tell you two truths that demonstrate reality. One is that the Valencian Community does not have additional funding, but rather a funding deficit, and two, that those who have had additional funding have been you with Gürtel, with Box B, with Blasco, etc. On the other hand, Compromís wants to denounce again the arbitrariness of the government in setting deficit targets, because it is not possible that if the autonomous communities assume 40% of social expenditure, they only have 18% of the public deficit margin. This is clearly an injustice that has allowed you to mistreat the autonomous communities politically and economically. But we're going beyond that. The Valencian group would not endorse the spending ceiling - although it increased sufficiently - nor the deficit target - even though it was equitable - if the budget resulting from this whole process continued to allow realities such as the one we heard last week from Karim, a farmer, who in Albacete denounced employment situations of quasi-slavery, or as the thousands of people who in my land are working for 3 or 4 euros per hour and with marathon working days. This is the reality of our country, Mr Montoro: no job is created, misery is distributed; and, by the way, that is what the Citizens Party has also achieved. I'm done. The Valencian group came to Madrid to two things: To demand a fair deal for our people and to rescue people, and from there we do not move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u27	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u28	Pick it up on. We will vote not so much on the expenditure ceiling as on the objectives of budgetary stability and debt for the period 2018-2020. It cannot be good that in Madrid they decide for us how much we can spend or in debt and that they do so without taking into account our starting economic situation and the public policies to be implemented. We cannot give the priority of the control of the deficit, the bet on austerity. It does not seem acceptable to us that the State should continue to reserve most of the deficit when it is the autonomous communities that carry out most of the social expenditure and one third of the public expenditure and leave them, together with the local entities, with a narrower margin each year for action. This means that the Basque Autonomous Community will have 140 million less and Nafarroa with 36 million less, for the two tenths that lower the spending ceiling. We do not accept the attack on competences and autonomy contained in the Law on Stability, which is limiting the possibilities of local entities to act in the face of the nearest social needs, leaving many municipalities practically intervened; municipalities that, although having a surplus and a fully controlled debt and social projects to develop, are forced to allocate that surplus to the payment of the debt, to make financial plans for not complying with the rule of expenditure, even counting - I repeat - with a fully controlled and healthy situation, which prevents them from working and investing in the needs of the citizenry. Autonomous communities and municipalities need to be able to make use of the resources available to ensure social cohesion, to support the productive fabric, to generate economic activity, to reduce unemployment, to help those who need it most. They need to be able to decide how much, when and how to spend, and they are faced with a law of antisocial stability, austere, which attacks frontally the institutional, re-centralizing, neoliberal framework, which imposes on us the spending ceiling. Ultimately, they are rules outside our reality that limit our capacity for action and, therefore, make it impossible for us to carry out public policies for the benefit of citizens. For this reason, Euskal Herria Bildu will vote no.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u29	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Salvador Armendariz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u30	Thank you, Madam President. These days many Spaniards and institutions remember Miguel Ángel Blanco Garrido. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank the families of all the victims of ETA who, over and above their pain, retained their moral clarity and their faith in the fact that among us, among politicians, with the force of the rule of law and the firmness of the law, we would end violence and hatred. Today it is up to them once again to restore the confidence they have placed in us and to tell them that our commitment remains alive; I live in the struggle to gain spaces for freedom, starting with Alsasua; I live in the fight against radicalisms that still justify criminal activity and intend to keep their totalitarian project on the ground; and I live to face up to hatred and so many lies with a true and real account of what we have suffered, with good and bad, brave and cowardly, victims and executioners, heroes and villains. [[Applauds]] I'm on it, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. I imagine that none of us will be surprised by the meaning of our vote this afternoon. [[The Lord]] Our vote on the agreement will be that yes and, as I have very little time to give my reasons, I will state them exclusively, Mr Montoro. One, because it's consistent with what we decided six months ago. Two, because we have a long-distance agreement with you, with the People's Party, with the government that affects Navarre and that we reaffirm and renew today. And we would like that to happen because, in addition, we continue to be forced to fill the lack of will and ambition of the abertzale government of Navarra with the future of our community. Three, because the economic and budgetary objectives envisaged in any case are being met, that is, that the circumstances have not changed to the worst to change the meaning of our vote. Four, because we know that the adoption of the agreement today gives stability, stability generates trust and trust is the basis of growth in a virtuous circle that we defend. Five, because we believe it would be wrong today to review the reforms and agreements that have led us to reverse this crisis situation. And finally, as is obvious, because we do not share that philosophy that some groups defend that the worse, the better. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Almost seven months ago we supported with the Forum vote the objectives set by the Government aimed at reducing the public deficit, economic growth and job creation, adapting the public accounts to the guidelines of the Council of the European Union. A few days ago the General Courts approved, also with the votes of Forum, the General Budgets of the State for 2017, which collect, in the specific case of Asturias, very important budget items to meet high priorities that comply with the programme of political change with which PP and Forum appeared in the elections. For Asturias, it is the first time in many years that budgetary expectations have been set for progress in essential infrastructure projects and works, such as high rail speed, the Gijón road plan or, in terms of roads, the Oviedo North Round and the South-West motorway, as well as socio-economic drive actions for the mining, environmental and reindustrialization basins, among other highlights. None could be completed without the approval of the non-financial expenditure limit proposed by the Government, which Forum shares, and which increases the initial forecasts by one tenth, which makes even more incomprehensible the radical change of the Socialist Party, which in December voted in favour of deficit targets, but which today, Pedro Sánchez by the way, will vote against, even if this means dragging Spain into its harmful and damaging drift to instability and also to the fact that communities like Asturias are excluded from the essentials and great budgetary progress if the expenditure ceiling is rejected. Mr President, I would not like to leave this rostrum on these emotional dates without having a memory for Miguel Ángel Blanco, for all the victims of terrorism; for your parents, Maria del Mar, for you. Miguel Ángel, Míguel, remains at the heart of millions and millions of Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Coalition held a stand of abstention at the first Fiscal and Financial Policy Council because we considered, like the spokesman for the PNV, that it did not make sense that when the deficit is fulfilled - in the case of the Canary Islands it will be fulfilled and, not only that, it will be zero deficit in this year - the surplus that is produced will compensate the communities that do not meet the deficit - and I will not name any -. We believe that sacrifice is not done by a government, it is not done by a political force, it is done by citizens and the Canarian community, which stood at 35% unemployment in 2013, is already at 25.7%. But there is a long way to go, there are 220,000 unemployed and we need to reinvest that surplus in society itself to create jobs. That's our goal. The expenditure ceiling is not just the expenditure ceiling, it is the possibility that 8,000 municipalities and 17 autonomous communities have a budget. Perhaps the State can extend budgets, as we did in this exercise, but of course the municipalities - and one person who was a mayor for eleven years - or the autonomous communities cannot have an extended budget because that affects essential services and employment. In this sense, we will support the spending ceiling, believing and hoping that the definitive form of that possibility of reinvestment of the surplus generated in those communities that meet the deficit will be resolved in the 2018 budgets. Mari Mar, of course, is twenty years from one before and one after. My solidarity, my memory and my emotion for you, your family and all Basque citizenship. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u36	Good afternoon, everyone, ladies and gentlemen. New Canarias abstained in December 2015 and will do the same again in this debate. We cannot vote in favour because we do not share the policies of the People's Party: we have told them that we are against the degradation of public services, we are against job insecurity and we are against growth through internal devaluation. We're against this. Now, since political change in Spain is not possible - in this House the responsibility of those who have prevented that is clear - we are going to take advantage of the fact that the People's Party does not have an absolute majority to achieve some achievements that, in our view, would have been unthinkable at the previous stage. That is why we have proposed improvements that we know are not all that we share, but they are reasonable. Of course, the notion that for once the autonomous communities will see their capacity for financing improved to meet their important responsibilities in maintaining public services - health, education, social policies - is a reasonably positive news. One tenth more is true that it is one tenth, but it is EUR 1 billion, and this guarantee in 2019 continues to be a help to maintain what needs to be maintained while we get things to change in the state. And then there is an important issue that perhaps has been pointed out little - we have not listened to the minister -, and it is the question of the spending rule. We have heard - and we agree - that the spending rule must be reinterpreted in order to try to get local corporations that have made the greatest effort, that have achieved surplus, to have at least the possibility of spending that part of their surplus on meeting the very large needs of the population of the multiple Spanish municipalities that have fulfilled all these years with the zero deficit and have also been able to generate savings. Let us trust that that is the direction; in that case, count on our abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. Like Mr Salvador, Mr Oblanca and Mrs Oramas, I want my first words to be in memory of Miguel Ángel Blanco, whose murder twenty years ago marked a turning point in the determination of the Spanish people as a whole to end the violence of the terrorist gang ETA. [[Applauds]] I would also like to express my absolute revulsion towards those who seek to maintain an equidistant position between victims and executioners, denying to the former, their families and all their neighbours the memory and recognition that the victims deserve. [[Applauds]] Turning to the subject before us, my group will support the objectives of budgetary stability and public debt for all public administrations and for each of their subsectors for the period 2018-2020 and the non-financial expenditure limit for the budgets of next year approved by the Government, forecasts that we consider prudent and realistic and that contemplate a fair sharing of the deficit among all public administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, that the economic and job creation policy carried out by this government in recent years is a success, very few discuss it outside this House, very few, and that is because the data show it. We are the European Union's most employment-creating country, more than 672,000 new jobs last year, and we have been able to recover two out of three jobs destroyed by the crisis. Our economy is the one that has grown the most from the European Union's big over the past two years and will do so again in 2017 and 2018 if all experts' forecasts are met. Since this is true, I honestly do not see the reason for radically changing the policies that are giving such a positive result. Despite this, the spokesmen of Podemos and Compromís work day by day to transfer to public opinion a picture of Spain that looks more like a suburb of Somalia than reality, and the fact is that the figures and facts every morning are rebutted. I recognize the virtue of perseverance, for that work must be exhausting, but really what you sell and what you intend to draw is not accompanied by reality. You do not want to meet the public deficit target, which would increase debt and finance would be substantially increased, detracting resources to cover the welfare state; you are against free trade, which would reduce exports and return the external deficit. Tax would rise wildly - they have said it again today - 19,500 million euros, not only to the rich but to all the Spaniards, in order to achieve that figure, ladies and gentlemen, which would retract domestic consumption, one of the levers of economic recovery. In short, pure and hard populism that would only bring misery and poverty. Mr. Roldán, Citizen Spokesman, you boast of everything you get. Has it not occurred to you that if certain things can be done now, it is because others have been done before, which now allow certain margins? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement of the Council of Ministers that we are debating today sets the spending ceiling for 2018 at 119 834 million, increasing by 1497 million compared to 2017, an increase of 1.3% that will allow further reduction of the public deficit while at the same time boosting economic growth and job creation, and also shielding social protection for those who do not yet perceive the effects of recovery. Still, they insist on talking about cuts when there is an increase in spending of almost EUR 1.5 billion for next year. The public deficit for 2018 that we voted for today is the same as it was established in December last year - minus 2.2% - and its distribution among the different public administrations is similar to that which was agreed with the autonomous communities months ago. I say the same because the target for the autonomous communities has finally been lowered by one tenth, so that the greatest effort will be made again by the General Administration of the State, allowing the autonomous communities to spend up to 1200 million euros more freely. The fixed deficit of at least 2.2% will finally enable Spain to exit the excessive deficit procedure in which the Socialists put us back in 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, when it is said that the bulk of the effort to consolidate public accounts has been made by the Autonomous Communities, it is not true. In 2011, the Socialist Party left a deficit in the central government of at least 5.27% and will end 2018 with at least 0.7% of GDP. For their part, in 2011 the autonomous communities closed with a deficit of at least 3.35% of GDP and will close in 2018 with a deficit of at least 0.4 %. The reality is that the central administration has made an adjustment of 4.5 points of GDP and the autonomous communities of 2.95. And if we added the social security deficit, the adjustment would be even greater in the case of the General Administration of the State. When we had this same debate a few months ago, we emphasized the exercise of responsibility that the various political groups were doing. We said it was positive for political stability and for transferring confidence in our economy. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the same path of reducing the public deficit for 2018 and 2019, exactly the same. However, the Socialist Group is dedicating itself - and I quote the Socialist spokesman of that occasion, who is the same as this afternoon - to make a positive assessment of the public deficit targets and reject them on a plan basis. Mr Saura, when you justify it with the cuts in the welfare state, I remind you that in the general budgets for 2017 social spending is higher by 12 billion euros than the last one you approved in 2011, 12 billion euros. Therefore, do not talk about cuts in the welfare state because nothing further from reality. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what has changed in these months for the Socialist Group to move from a yes to a no? What has changed so that they did not even want to sit down and negotiate with the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group? What has changed so that the Socialist Group has come down from the ship of responsibility and dialogue and now embraces the populists and those who want to break Spain? It is a pity that his spokesman did not want to explain if we are facing the turn of the 'no' to everything and if they will continue to sit next to Podemos, Bildu and Esquerra Republicana, turning their backs on most of the Spaniards. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by thanking Foro Asturias, Unión del Pueblo Navarro, Coalition Canaria, PNV and Citizens for their willingness to dialogue and their willingness to reach agreements. Finally, I would like to highlight the good work done by Minister Montoro and his team, who for the second time in history will have inherited a country with all the economic problems that can be imagined and will succeed, to the amazement of many, in overcoming them once again. From here I transfer all the support, consideration and recognition of the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Olano. For the turn of reply, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I first of all take this time to remind you of the loss of Miguel Ángel Blanco for all of us twenty years ago. Twenty years ago I was in the Government of Spain - I was Secretary of State for Economic Affairs - and among all of us we had the moral strength to face the consequences of a murder - another murder - that was marred by a young economist. This murder led the State Secretariat of the Economy to reflect on what the policy we were doing at the time was to have Spain found the euro, to open up a stage of prosperity and job creation. It is precisely examples such as that of Miguel Ángel Blanco that make us repudiate the conducts that use politics for their own benefit rather than seeking the general interest regardless of the positions we occupy. That is why he said that his memory and that of all the victims of terrorism really inspire the political action of the Spanish Government. Having said that, first of all I would like to thank the support of the People's Parliamentary Group, an explicit support that gives meaning to the action of the People's Party Government and President Rajoy. In 2011, when we won the general elections, we fully understood the mandate we received. The mandate was to carry out government action that would overcome the worst economic crisis that was causing a real social and political fracture in Spain. Now, in 2017, when we are making a new proposal for budgetary stability objectives and, ultimately, opening the door to the realization of new General State Budgets, it is precisely when we can say that our path and our commitment is to fulfil the mandate to end this economic crisis. That is what inspires us and makes us continue in our positions even though we are a minority government, supported by a non-cracked parliamentary group, solid and committed to the mandate of the ballot boxes, so that through political dialogue we can develop the budgetary and economic policies that are being able to put an end to the worst legacy of the crisis, which is unemployment. I would also like to thank the other political groups - as I have already done in my first speech - who will vote in favour. I would like to express my gratitude for the support of Citizens, with whom we are developing the investment agreements and tax reform programmes that we will implement in the General State Budgets, in line with the correction of the public deficit targets. It is difficult to understand that these agreements committed to reducing the income tax on natural persons for those with lower incomes and that they bet on deductions from the IRPF quota for those who need it most: persons with disabilities, older persons with dependency consequences in the form of family burden. It is incomprehensible the critical attitude shown by the stubborn left - this one that has us used to make everything look bad, whatever comes - because in terms of fiscal progressivity we can't do more. Our proposal is to reduce income tax precisely for those who have less income, favouring deductions in the quota. By the way, it is a system that we introduced in the reform of the IRPF of 2003 for women workers with dependent children, a system of deductions from the quota that in the 2018 budgets we will have to improve and extend. Mr. Saura, I think Mr. Olano has already answered very well. Mr Saura, I would like to put to you the Journal of Sessions of this same debate and the words of the Socialist spokesman. I will make a literal quote, thanking the work that the stenographers do in the reproduction of our words and also sometimes of our expressions in the Journal of Sessions. The Socialist spokesman said: 'It is that the seal of Spanish social democracy, the seal of Spanish socialism, the stamp of the Socialist Party is in the agreements and is in the deficit targets for next year, for 2017'. I close quotes. That's what the socialist spokesman said. What has happened since then until now? [[Laughter]] That a spirit has come to enlighten the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because, I insist, it is an outside spirit, and this is over. [[Rumors]] Don't make excuses, you're already in something else. Okay, okay, but I'm going to remind you that they've been in something else since 2011, I'm going to remind you that you haven't supported one of the measures that are making economic recovery possible for us and recovering from the crisis, I'm going to remind you that you were against the Organic Law of Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability. [[Applauds]] They have done nothing to overcome this economic crisis, nothing, just complain, but to complain there is already the contumid left. [[Rumors]] But well, there you are. It doesn't have any logic - I couldn't have it, because the argument Mr. Saura has used is really remarkable -...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u41	Wait a minute, Minister. Please, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u42	Thank you. Macro data is not lived by people. Man, I thought the macro data was made by people! When it is said that it increases family consumption, what does it increase?, the consumption of Ibex counselors? When we say that investment in equipment in Spanish companies increases, who does?, does not the people who are investing? Or when we say that the export level of the Spanish economy is 35% of our gross domestic product, do not people, do not those who are manufacturing and producing goods and services in Spain? Or when we are developing an industry such as tourism, with that power and capacity, does not the people of our country, does not the hotel and hotel sector, does not the workers of these economic sectors? Don't people live that recovery? No, people don't! I don't understand how people pay taxes, I really don't understand! I'll give you a piece of information. In the income campaign that was just closed on 31 June, revenue has increased by 13% over the previous year, which means that there are many people who have declared, not in negative, but are properly financing public finances because they have generated income. I repeat, there has been 13% growth. In addition, he says that the adjustment we propose is an adjustment for the reduction in expenditure. But what's it going to be like about reducing spending? Where does this come from? Let's see, we bring an economic scenario whose growth at least contributes to the order of 10 billion euros in terms of tax revenues and our current autonomous financing system, which we would have to reform with their collaboration and cooperation, makes almost half of that new financing that comes from growth go to the autonomous communities. With this, where do you see that public spending is reduced? Where is the proposal to reduce public spending? Resources will be increased for all our administrations as a result, I insist, of economic growth. By the way, the rule of spending is the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, which is European governance - I want to remind the House that it is European governance, it is not a Spanish norm, it is a European norm -; in addition, Spain is subject to the excessive deficit procedure and therefore we will have to apply - as we have done over the last few years and we continue to do - and we will have to review when, at the request of the European Union, this revision is actually promoted, but let us not confuse the fact that there is a moderation in the increase in public expenditure with the reduction of it. I will remind Mr Saura, that for that he handles this data, what was the level of public spending that the socialist government had in 2007. [[Show a document]] In 2007, Mr Saura, who had no crisis, there was a socialist government in Spain, another thing is that that socialist government was the one that with its policies was gesturing the crisis - but, as I know, there was no crisis, in which I am right, but what there was was a socialist government in Spain and in many autonomous communities - do your lordships know what was the level of total public spending in Spain? 39% of GDP. What do we bring here as a proposal? In 2020, public spending in Spain is 39.2% of GDP. What GDP was there in 2007? There were 1.1 billion euros. What GDP will there be in 2020? 1,3 or 1.4 billion euros; ergo 39.2% on GDP is much more expenditure than the socialist government, so socialist that it was, so distributive and so equitable. Now, I'm going to read you the figure of social spending that the socialist government had that public spending on GDP. The total social expenditure in Spain - social expenditure, pension expenditure, unemployment benefit expenditure, disability care expenditure, expenditure on education and health expenditure, that is social expenditure - was 243 148 million euros. What is the government's social spending on this stability programme for 2020? EUR 330 billion; EUR 330 billion in social expenditure compared to EUR 243 billion. Where's the social cut? Do you want to tell me, Mr. Garzón, that you are an economist and that you have read or studied Joan Robinson? I've always been surprised by his appointments, ever since he made it to me with Adam Smith and I had to remind him of those principles of social philosophy of Adam Smith. I doubt very much that his lordship has read Adam Smith very deeply, but well, he's fine, he's perfect, he's sure, but one thing is to read it and another thing is to identify with those principles of social philosophy. But do you want me to beat those figures? Do you want to tell me that it is not in this Spain where social spending is the highest in our history? Is that true or not? Isn't that right? Aren't those numbers? Yes, it's millions of pensions; it's the coverage of our unemployed; it's the equal opportunities of our children and young people in terms of education; that's what this is; it's the access to public health so important for that equal opportunities that it represents, nothing more and nothing less, that Spain has the highest life expectancy in the developed world, almost just comparable to Japan. That's why we spend in social terms, and those are the figures. They beat those numbers. Go up and say, "They're not real! It's not what the government proposes! Having said that, with these figures of social expenditure, with these budget figures, with these figures of public deficit target, do the representatives of Podemos want to tell me, does Mr Montero want to tell me, instead of being growing to 3% this year, how much is Italy growing? How much is France growing? How much is Germany growing? How much is the United Kingdom growing? How much is Spain growing? How much did we grow last year, 3.2? How much did we grow in 2015, 3.2? How much did we grow in 2014, 0.8? Against the prognosis, because no one predicted it. Does it mean to me that if we did another budget policy, instead of growing on the 3rd, we would be growing on the 5th? I don't know if he realizes what he's saying. If you had a reasonable and sensible proposal, in line with European standards... By the way, it has come up here to say that Spain does not have to meet those deficit targets. Aren't we Europe? We're not Euros, are we? Gentlemen of Podemos, Mr Churches, we are euro, we are Europe, we are European integration, and that is called a commitment to economic stability and budgetary stability. It is called this in Europe, and that is what is making that Europe progress as a source of freedom, progress as a rule of law and progress as the only place in the world where the state of well-being strongly developed exists. The figures that this Government brings are those of the welfare state, which it has historically never achieved, are compatible with economic growth and with job creation and they make us participate in this great project called Europe of integration, much more than economic, of political integration, of understanding among the peoples of Europe. This is what I wanted to say to you as a first reply. Let it be clear that no one here proposes spending cuts to the autonomous communities at all. Let me be clear, because these are the figures, and I would urge the appropriate rigour in this type of debate. When it is said that there are cuts, it will mean that there are reductions. I will not deny that there were, of course there were!, because there were some governments that promoted expenditure that was unfunded and that generated that deficit, which was one - not the only - of the causes of the destruction of three million long jobs. That's what happened in Spain until that policy changed, a change that is making us overcome the crisis. I ended up reading the figures. To the spokesman of Esquerra, who is on the 1st of October - it can come down from the 1st of October any day of these because it will not have any effect in practical terms or real -, that always ends the speech into a fact that will not happen, but you are in your right to claim what you understand, I will give the data - to Mr Ferran Bel also - regarding the adjustments by administrations - forgive that you use the forum to give the data, but there are times that in the debates it is obliged to do it -, and what Administration has made greater effort. This is a rather futile debate, because the administrations, in a state like Spain, we have to do what we have to do, and the Government of Spain what the Constitution entrusts to it is the coordination of budgetary policies. But as you always appeal to this kind of approach, I will give you the data, but I will remind you that the first thing the Government of Spain did in 2012 was to postpone the liquidations of the autonomous communities with regard to the state, small detail, billions of euros that, instead of telling them to enter them, we postponed them to twenty years. That's what we did, which the socialist government didn't do either, a very autonomous government that produced a debacle in the autonomous communities with the new financing system of 2009 and the 2008 itself with the drop in collection. I'll read you the published figures. Accumulated adjustment 2011-2016, General State Administration, in terms of gross domestic product, 2.91%; autonomous communities, 2.53%; local entities, 1.04%; Social Security, -1.52%; total, 4.95%, which is what has been corrected the public deficit since that 9.28 % of 2011 to here. It is an adjustment already made, closed; adjustment that we propose behind these figures for the period 2017-2020. If you want to read it already accumulated: adjustment 2011-2020. What do we propose? That the central government lower the government deficit by 5.43% of gross domestic product; the autonomous communities, 3.35% and local corporations, 0.4% - because they would already be in a situation of survival -. Social security would be the only administration we are bringing with the proposed deficit of -0.4%. That's the adjustment we're bringing in. I understand the whole world and I understand that socialists have to say what they have to say; that the stubborn left has to say what it has to say and, of course, that the independenceists have to say what they have to say. I understand that and respect it as a Democrat - I do not share it, of course - apart from being a member of the government, as I am a deeply democratic person. But I tell you that you have no reason for the arguments you display from the rostrum, no quantitative reason, neither one nor the other. Therefore, I encourage you to be constructive. I know they're not going to be this afternoon but let my last word also pretend to be for the elaboration of the 2018 General State Budgets, which is what we have to do. We have to do this, and it has been said here quite clearly, because that gives stability to a country; because that makes it possible to improve the financing of public services; because it fuels economic growth and job creation. That is why my last words want to invite you to think about it better, not for this afternoon that it will not give time, but for the preparation of the General Budgets of the State of 2018. The Government will insist, it will call at its door to see if with the People's Parliamentary Group it is possible to carry out agreements that respond to the general interests of all. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Saura has the floor for a three-minute time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Firstly, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we join in solidarity with the family of Miguel Ángel Blanco. [[Applauds]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Montoro, the problem is that you cannot give lessons here, in this House or before the public, because the ruling of the Constitutional Court says - the ruling says - that you have no principles to be able to manage the public resources of all Spaniards, you cannot give lessons to anyone. [[Show a document]] I'm going to read you two paragraphs of the Constitutional ruling I have here. He says that the tax amnesty is 'legitimizing as a valid option the conduct of those who, in an inconsistent manner, failed to fulfil their duty to tax according to their economic capacity, finally placing them in a more favourable situation than those who voluntarily and in time fulfilled their obligation to contribute'. And the ruling of the Constitutional Court continues - and here I find it demolishing the Constitutional Court -: 'The objective of obtaining a collection that is considered indispensable cannot, by itself, be sufficient cause to legitimize the failure of the objective of justice to which the tax system must, in any case, strive'. Demolatory judgment that you should not have come here this afternoon to present the deficit target, the deficit path and the spending ceiling. No, he should have gone home. In any other democratic country, you, as Minister of Finance, would either resign or cease and would not be here presenting a new spending ceiling and a deficit path. That's the real problem. You, Mr. Montoro, are disqualified from teaching anyone; anyone. [[Applauds]] Furthermore, what I will not allow you to do, Mr Montoro, is to cheat again, to play again with the figures, to do fiscal pirouettes again. In 2011, Mr Montoro, social expenditure represented 28.27 of GDP; in 2018, according to his estimates, social expenditure will be 26.9% of GDP, but in 2020 it will be 25.57 of GDP. I mean, not only are we in line already, we're going to back down. There is economic growth, but that social spending does not reach the majority. You are cheating because you would have to compare economic times and equal cycles and it turns out that your fiscal and budgetary policy tends to reduce social spending 3 points in relation to GDP in the coming years; 3 points. This is the stability programme which the Spanish Government has sent to Brussels, not the Socialist Party programme, the stability programme. So it's not worth everything and it's not worth the traps. Third idea, Mr. Montoro. You don't mean how much we're going to get in and you want to hide how to calculate the spending ceiling because you don't want to tell us how much money is going to go to the autonomous communities next year because the game of reducing the public deficit, the game of the spending rule and the game of cash deliveries are going to make, Mr Montoro, that the autonomous communities next year have to make adjustment plans for EUR 25 billion when in the last spending ceiling with EUR 5 billion more they didn't have to make adjustment plans. Therefore, there was no adjustment in the welfare state. That's the difference. You don't tell the Spaniards what the discounts are going to be because you want to hide that next year the autonomous communities have to make an adjustment of 25 billion euros. Tax trilerism: with one hand I give him a tenth and with another I take it away.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u45	You have to finish, Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u46	I'm done, Mr. President. Mr. Montoro, you definitely can't teach anyone lessons here. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Saura. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u48	Thank you very much. I rise to the rostrum not to replicate but simply to conform to the data given by the Minister. Indeed, these facts which the Minister has read in this rostrum are absolutely true, as true as those which I have read in this rostrum before. [[Show a document]] They're the same. From your data, Minister, which you have read here today, it appears that from the reduction of the deficit in the Spanish State over the last five years, 50% have been assumed by the Autonomous Communities. They are their data, 50% have been assumed by the Autonomous Communities; just over 20% by local corporations and between Social Security and the Central Administration 25%. Here's your data. We agree, the problem is that we are not in compliance. The problem is that we do not agree that the great effort in reducing the deficit in the Spanish State over the last five years has had to be assumed by the autonomous communities and local corporations. [[Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montoro Romero, makes negative gestures]] Yes, it's your data, I quote your data, and in your data you make a kind of trap. Consolidate Social Security with the Central Administration; these are its areas of responsibility. The presidents of the autonomous communities have their areas of responsibility, the mayors have their areas of responsibility, and the central government - with Mr Rajoy at the head - has its areas of responsibility, and of the areas of responsibility, you have contributed to the reduction of the deficit in the Spanish state - of which we welcome - 25%, the autonomous communities have contributed 52% and the local corporations have contributed 22%. That is why we do not agree that when the deficit targets for 2018 are distributed, you, the central administration and social security, reserve 82% and the autonomous communities reserve 18% exclusively. This is our point of discrepancy and it is where we understand that year after year we do not comply with the first transitional provision, that we agreed and that it led our group at that time to vote on the Budget Stability Act. I therefore confirm your data and confirm that the effort has been made by the autonomous communities and local corporations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor for a period of three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u50	Mr. Montoro, from the contumaz left we suggest you stop worrying about our readings and worry about yours. If you, instead of reading the liberal philosophical part of Adam Smith, read the last report of the Bank of Spain, the interpellation that has made me directly - and that I now have the opportunity to answer - you could have saved it. The differential growth of the Spanish economy is explained by the Governor of the Banco de España in that report and is essentially due to three factors: one, the expansive monetary policy of the European Central Bank; two, the fall in oil prices; and three, oh, the expansive fiscal policy of the Government of the People's Party during the years 2015 and 2016. I don't tell you; the governor of the Banco de España tells you. [[Applauds]] That means that an expansive tax policy - even more expansive - promotes a higher rate of growth. The logical limit is yours. Moreover, what that report tells you - I quote the page, in case you do not want to read it whole because I suppose you are at this point in your life very busy to study these things - on page 127 is that - I open quotes and start quotes - 'the multipliers associated with discretionary increases in public consumption and investment are usually higher than those of taxes, given the direct effect of the former on the aggregate demand of the economy. As for the different components of expenditure, empirical evidence shows that the increase in public investment has a greater multiplier than that of current expenditure.' End of date. What does that mean? That if the effort you are going to make to cut public revenues as a result of the policies imposed on you by citizens of EUR 2 billion would do so in increasing spending by EUR 2 billion, the impact on the economy would be more expansive than what you are imposing now. These are classic Keynesian approaches that continue to be maintained and ratified by the Banco de España itself and all empirical evidence. They are imposing a cut on public revenues of an ideological nature and not of equity and efficiency. So, worry more than you read, try to re-study some Public Finance, which will make it better for us all, and don't worry so much about Mr Garzón's readings, that I am sure they are widely exploited. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Montero. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor, also for a period of three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u52	Very quickly. I wonder if anyone in Spain at this stage could believe that if there were no Citizens in this House, if the People's Party still had an absolute majority, today we would be talking about a tax reduction for the Spaniards, an effective tax reduction. [[Applauds]] Mr Montoro said he did not have the slightest interest in doing so and, thanks to Citizens, we can talk about a first descent today. [[Rumors]] No, Mr. Montoro was talking about the carrot, but for the right time, that's when the elections come. We believe that we must begin to return the efforts of the citizenry as soon as possible. Just one more comment on this sudden rise of the Socialist Party for fiscal responsibility. It's fascinating, it happens to Podemos too. They say that they are very worried because they are not going to square the accounts, but it seems that you were not so worried - there is Mr Saura - about square the accounts when you voted in favour of the rents and the salaries that we proposed of 15 billion. [[Applauds]] It is therefore basically a completely incoherent and completely useless speech at the same time that of the Socialist Party, unfortunately, which, fortunately, makes Citizens the only party capable, as I said before, of achieving at the same time stability for this country and the necessary reforms for the middle and working class. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u54	Mr Montoro, who has borne the burden of deficit reduction? They have told you before: the autonomous communities and the municipalities. The General Administration of the State has increased it by 2558 million euros, already raising it to 7.5 billion euros. To increase from 0,3 % to 0,4 % represents a tenth, which is important, because it is 200 million more euros. In the case of Catalonia it is very important because, as I said earlier, not all autonomous administrations have the same level of competence. Some people do not want to exercise them, but we want to exercise them and we have always exercised them; moreover, we want to exercise a few more than it involves having the competences of a State. So that tenth plus, that 200 million plus, welcome be, but you will agree with me that it is not the same to have 0.4% but to have 0.8%, that it is much more and that it would allow us to comply with the welfare state that we want and dream of Catalonia. It's very simple. Besides, it doesn't just say Republican Left - I will insist to the point of satiety - it is said by the AIReF every time it can in the reports it issues. I have told you before: the way in which you distribute deficit targets does not meet any objective criteria. And when you do this and tell us not to cut or force us to adjust, tell me I'm wrong. If it turns out that a tenth is 200 million euros until it reaches 0.8 %, that is to say double, to increase from 0.4 to 0.8 % imagine how much it is. Therefore, it is true that it forces us to adjust, it is what you say: adjust. In short, those who cannot attend as they should and would like to attend to social spending and, therefore, the needs in health, education, culture, social services, are those autonomous communities that have the competence to do so. And then there is another reason: who fails to comply with the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, the first transitional provision? Who violates the law? The Government of the State itself; the Government of the State itself fails to comply with the laws. In short, do not point at us with your finger, do not point at us again; do not point at us with your finger, Minister. You're the ones who fail first. Besides, in case there are no more reasons, I'll give you a few. Between 2015 and 2016, the Generalitat de Catalunya has reduced the deficit in absolute terms by almost EUR 4 billion, I repeat: almost EUR 4 billion; this represents 85% of the total reduction of all public administrations. Look, we have reasons and reasons, you can produce more laughter, less laughter, you can find folkloric that Catalans and Catalans are willing to vote but we have sufficient reasons and reasons for October 1st to vote they like little or much, understand it more or understand it less. We are determined to do so and we are going to do so; we are going to vote on 1 October and we want, at least in Republican Left, to win a tremendous yes to say no to those policies that are determined by the Government of the Kingdom of Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Saura, you insisted on asking Mr. Montoro not to lecture him. Mr Montoro has only done, with figures, with official data and with data from the General Intervention of the State, to disassemble each and every one of the arguments that you intended to make in your first intervention, each and every one of them. That is precisely why, because you have no economic arguments in a debate of an economic nature, you resort to reading judgments that have nothing to do with the public deficit or the spending ceiling. I recommend that if you want to talk about tax amnesty, you refresh the memory of the members of this House and talk about the two tax amnesty that your party approved, and you applauded, in which not only did you not have to tax a single euro - at that time you were pesetas - but above that the Spanish had to pay the defrauding interests for those tax amnesty that you approved on your own in this House. [[Applauds]] Therefore, if you want to talk about amnesties, refresh our memory with the amnesties that you approved. Mr. Saura, I was asking Mr. Montoro not to cheat, but if the traps are being made by you, they've been cheating for six months. I asked him in my first speech, and Mr Montoro too, what has changed since December, what has changed so that on the same path of public deficit, the same target of public deficit - at least 2.2% - you will vote yes in December and vote now that you do not. What's changed? The autonomous communities, to which you claim to defend because 70% of your spending is social, have one tenth more laxity to spend, more than EUR 12 billion that the autonomous communities will be able to spend on social spending. What's changed? The only thing that has changed is the leadership of your party, nothing more. You were defending one thing in December - the minister read it to you and I read you a text quote - and now you are defending another one and you stay so pancho. Of course, but this isn't the case. Who's cheating on the loner? You're doing it. Now, they're fooling very few Spaniards, I can tell you that. Finally, Mr Roldán, taxes have been lowered here before Citizens arrived. [[Applauds]] Yes, yes, in 2015 and 2016 taxes were lowered with an impact of 12.3 billion euros, the largest tax drop in history, and I assure you that it was not Citizens. And I ask you again, in case the members of the Citizens' Group have not thought of doing so, whether the fact that we now have some room to do certain things will not be a consequence of the successful policies that we have been developing since 2012. Just that. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Olano. To close the debate, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to put an end to this point in order to move on to the next item on the agenda of the plenary session, I would like to make two comments on the figures. It is very important to insist on this because, if I am in a hurry, it is a relatively new thing. We are giving priority to social spending in our administrations and at the same time there is economic recovery and job creation. Every time a representative of Podemos speaks and his confluences - and I welcome it - he cites sources really worthy of mention: Adam Smith, Joan Robinson and now the report of the Bank of Spain on economic multipliers and accelerators. All right, they're raising the level, but what I want to tell you is that there's a reality that we're living in Spain. Social expenditure in our country had never reached this level and when Mr Saura says that social expenditure in terms of GDP was 22.50 % in 2007, I have to say that what the government is bringing now is that it is about a much broader GDP of 25 %. With a socialist government, Mr Saura, I read that it was 22.50 %. What is happening in budgetary terms? Because it's a reality that's happening in our country. That in 2007 the social expenditure on the total expenditure of our public administrations was 57.68 % and the government's proposal is to reach 64% by 2020. That is what we bring about what represents the total public expenditure. Here we have talked about many lessons and many things, but we are learning everything. We are learning that we are growing with social spending, that we can and must put ourselves in the greatest growth because we need that job creation. That is what we are learning, but it does not mean that public expenditure will not develop other public services that are absolutely essential, such as national defence, citizen security, the external representation of Spain or international cooperation. All these are expenses that we need to make, such as those of public R & D policies, innovation and development, expenditures on infrastructure and on the development of the Digital Agenda, on which our future but our present is totally dependent, the digitisation of Spanish society and not only of its economy. Of course we need to do all that! I insist that, as this is happening, let us not make political debates hide it because no one can say that Spain is not growing and is not creating employment, at the head of Europe. That is consistent with the fiscal impulses of the Government. The Government of the People's Party, as Mr Olano recalled, has lowered taxes in 2015 and 2016 by EUR 12.3 billion; EUR 12.3 billion has represented the fiscal boost. Then, on paper, it will be said that something else would have been preferable. I don't know what would have been preferable. We are in this room to do politics, not to teach each other lessons. We are the Government of Spain and we bring a determined policy with which we seek support. He was telling us we didn't give lessons. If I may say so, today's debate is a bit obsessive with the lessons up and down. Nobody gives lessons here, everyone comes here to exercise their responsibilities and the Government has a responsibility to bring forward proposals for budgetary policy, which is what makes our country go and work, our public administrations operate and 14 million people are receiving those revenues from the public sector, which is what we are talking about this afternoon. On the other hand, I would like to express my gratitude for the political dialogue, a dialogue which you, Mr Roldán, have presented as if you had pulled a tooth out of me. They have not taken out any of my teeth; among other things, because, at this point in life, they are all sufficiently stuffed. [[Laughter]] They didn't take out any of my teeth. You know that what we have agreed we have fulfilled. As a Government we are responsible for making a proposal that we are jointly developing and that is included in the investment agreements. We remain in this legislature to reduce taxes and reduce the IRPF. That is what we agreed and we are developing it through a very fluid and positive political dialogue. We must welcome that because it gives our country a great deal of political stability. In addition, starting by fulfilling our commitment to reduce taxes and do so for lower incomes and the most needy family groups is a good way to start lowering taxes in this legislature. That's what we're doing. I would also like to thank the political groups that are so important in these agreements and that have gone with the People's Party to the general elections. With UPN we share a whole project for Navarra and Spain; I want to say it that simple and simple for it to appear in the Diario de Sesiones. We're working on the same project and that's why we're going to the general elections together. The same is true of Foro Asturias. This government's bet on Asturias is clear. It is one of the autonomous communities that needs more attention from the State for the development of its infrastructure. I would also like to thank the Canary Coalition, with which we are developing the investment pacts with great loyalty. The same is true of New Canarias, because the Canary Islands needs economic growth - which it is already having - and job creation. By the way, the spokesman for Esquerra Republicana and the spokesman for PDeCAT will tell you that Catalonia is growing and is creating jobs at the head of Spain. It won't be the Catalonia you're talking about. If that is happening it is because Catalonia is Spain and that Catalonia, which in turn is the engine of Spain, is working and it is very good for you to grow the rest of Spain. That is why it is one of the European regions with the greatest growth and job creation. Therefore, we will be discussing the public deficit between administrations a lot, but the important thing is the affiliation to Social Security and that we have the correct financing of our public services. Mr President, I conclude by saying that it is an honor for me to present the so-called spending ceiling. This figure was introduced in Spain by the Budget Stability Act of 2002, a new figure proposed by a Government of the People's Party. I had the honour of being the Minister of Finance who brought this figure to the House and, Mr Saura, here I continue, making the presentation of the spending ceiling equal number. So we're not going to teach each other any lessons. What you are going to do in the opposition and us in the government is political for the sake of the Spaniards. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u59	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u60	We turn to item 2 of the agenda: Validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 12/2017 of 3 July, amending the consolidated text of the Law on Intellectual Property, approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 1/1996 of 12 April, as regards the system of fair compensation for private copying. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Education for Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before you on behalf of the Government to request your support for the validation of Royal Decree-Law 12/2007, adopted in the Council of Ministers on 3 July, amending the consolidated text of the Intellectual Property Act of 12 April 1996 as regards the system of fair compensation for private copying. This is a quiet issue that affects copyright and is closely linked to technological developments. This made possible the distribution on the market of methods and apparatus that allowed anyone to make a considerable number of copies of quality similar to the original and in very short time. Hence, these copies caused economic damage to rightholders and damaged the commercial exploitation of the works. For this reason, the recognition of the limit required compensation for that injury. This statement clearly warns the difficulty of the effort; let me therefore make a little history about the legal configuration of this compensation in our legislation. In 1987 Spain joined the countries with systems of fair compensation for the private copying limit. The procedure for fixing compensation was amended in 1992 and 1994. The adoption of Directive 29/2001 on copyright resulted in a further amendment by Law 23/2006, known as the digital and intellectual property canon. The 2006 Act established a procedure for negotiation between the parties and, in the absence of an agreement, for fixing the amounts by means of a joint ministerial order of the Ministries of Culture and Industry. The 2010 judgment of the High Court of Justice of the European Union in the Padawan case established - and I quote - that the indiscriminate application of the private copying fee does not comply with the 2001 Directive, in particular with regard to digital reproduction equipment, apparatus and media which have not been made available to private users and which are manifestly reserved for uses other than the making of private copies. Consequently, the National Court in 2011 and the Supreme Court in 2013 annulled the above-mentioned ministerial order of 2008. In order to bring the system into line with these judicial rulings, the Royal Decree-Law of 30 December 2011 on urgent budgetary, tax and financial measures for the correction of the public deficit empowered the Government to establish a procedure for payment to recipients of equitable compensation for private copying from the State General Budgets, a procedure governed by Royal Decree 1657/2012. Again, a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the C-470/14, which came back in 2016, pointed out that, without rejecting the legality of the system of compensation for private copy financed from the State's General Budgets, the Spanish system did not allow legal persons to request exemption from payment or reimbursement. That is why the European Court declared the system adopted by our country for the second time in seven years contrary to the 2001 Directive. And finally, with the logical sequence of what I said earlier, the Supreme Court, by judgment of 10 December 2016, annulled Royal Decree 1657/2012. In the light of this judgment, I publicly affirmed my determination to fill the legal gap resulting from the aforementioned judgments with a regulation seeking the agreement of the majority of the parliamentary forces and collecting the support and feeling of the sectors involved. Thus, we find ourselves today, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of a long debate that began three decades ago, and after listening to all the parties involved, we try to find the balance between the remuneration of copyright and the right to reproduction and the limits to private copying with the greatest possible consensus. This is not a minor debate. On the one hand, there is the protection of intellectual property rights; on the other, the public interests affected by them: education, security, information, access to culture and protection of privacy. There are two decisive factors involved in this debate. Firstly, technological development, which gives rise to new situations which are impossible to foresee in previous regulations, and secondly, the obligation to bring our regulatory framework into line with Community law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a legal vacuum and the Government must solve it, firstly, because we must comply with Community law. Last April, the Government received a letter of warning from the European Commission, which is the first step towards opening an infringement procedure. And secondly, because, by not being able to apply fair compensation for private copying from the General Budgets of the State in the regulated terms, intellectual property rights holders do not at this time have a system that compensates them for the damage caused by the rights they have ceased to receive. In the face of the legal vacuum, and given the extraordinary and urgent need, we resort to this figure of the decree-law that we present to this House for validation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on more than one occasion I have said that culture must be a matter of state. We have a responsibility to protect and promote the talent of our creators and to facilitate access to cultural expression while protecting the interests of consumers. Because talent has to be paid for. Behind culture there is a cultural industry on whose survival many jobs depend, and only by providing the sector with the enabling legal framework to adequately reward the author, the artist, the creator, we will ensure that all the flow of talent that exists in Spain is consolidated and continues to increase our rich common heritage. The solution to the vacuum of private copying compensation is through a stable, sustainable and permanent system, a system which must also be in line with the doctrine of the Court of Justice of the European Union and agreed with rights-management entities, social partners and political forces. The decree-law I have the honour to present on behalf of the Government for validation incorporates a compensation system based on the payment of an amount to be met by manufacturers, distributors of equipment, apparatus and reproductive media, accompanied by an effective mechanism of exemptions and refunds. This system, ladies and gentlemen, represents a completely new procedure and, moreover, as it cannot be otherwise, in accordance with Community law. The 2006 system was declared contrary to the Community directive, and I quote the Court of Justice's judgment: for the indiscriminate application of the private copying fee in relation to digital reproduction equipment, apparatus and media which have not been made available to private users and which are manifestly reserved for uses other than the making of private copies. The system of fair compensation for private copying from the General Budgets of the State, which came to replace the one I just mentioned in 2006, found no opposition by the Court of Justice to this modality; however, it does point out in its 2016 judgment, and I quote the same text: not having found a mechanism that allows legal persons who are not obliged to pay the compensation to request exemption from payment or their reimbursement. I insist and summarize, the 2006 system was declared contrary to Community law because of its indiscriminate application, while the payment system from the State General Budgets was declared contrary to the Directive in aspects related to the exemption from payment and reimbursement. We therefore bring here today a proposal that overcomes the defects of the previous systems; a new system that makes creators, authors and consumers the real beneficiaries of it; a new system that distinguishes between the legality and wrongfulness of the source, from which the private copy is made; a new system that definitively clarifies who are the subjects who are the creditors of the fair compensation: the authors, producers, artists and interpreters, and that also qualifies the debtors who are obliged to pay the compensation: manufacturers and distributors in Spain of equipment, apparatus and materials for reproduction. A new system in which the invoicing of the compensation will be carried out by the constituted management entities, also responsible for the management of exemptions and refunds through a system adapted to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would also like to tell you that from the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport we do not feel alien to the polemics surrounding some of these management societies, and I confirm that the approval of this new system of compensation for private copying will be accompanied by an increase in supervision of these entities by making use of the Ministry's guardianship over them, in order to ensure the fair and equitable sharing of benefits to the authors and to banish practices that discredit those entities. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing a progressive implementation of the new system and transitional regulation. The latter element has been the party whose negotiation has proved to be most complex, since the description of equipment and material reproduction supports on which the tariffs will have an impact to the current technological reality has to be adapted. Hence the inclusion of monofunctional printers, computer hard drives, tablets and smartphones. In order to avoid its impact on consumers, the Decree-Law has opted for moderation in departure rates. For a 16 gigabyte smartphone we propose a price of 1.10 euros, with a European average that is located around 8.66 and a top of 16 euros in Germany, 25 in Austria or 8 in France, to quote three countries of our environment. For a tablet of equal capacity we propose a rate of 3.15 euros compared to a European average of 5.72 and a tops of 15 euros in Germany or 8.40 in France. We believe that in a market as changing as the current one, where the emergence of new technologies requires almost permanent legislative adaptation, it is better to have a tariff scale that can be revised every three years. The experience of this new system will finally tell us what the optimal level of pricing is. We have been very concerned about transparency in the process, not only in the negotiating process, but especially in the final information to the consumer. That is why the compensation fee will be specified in the purchase invoice. Nothing will change in this process of progressive implementation and adaptation of tariffs without prior consultation with consumer associations. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that another concern of the political forces is the procedure of exemptions and, above all, of reimbursement to those final consumers, especially self-employed, who are entitled to it. As you know, there is a one-year deadline for the regulatory development of this royal decree-law. We will work with the utmost speed, in collaboration with the ministries of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness and Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda, so that the actual decree that determines in a non-transitional way the equipment subject to the payment of compensation, the amounts and the distribution of the same is ready in the shortest possible time. Ladies and gentlemen, the cultural industry has gradually become an important component of our gross domestic product. A world in permanent and accelerated process of technological and industrial transformation needs instruments for the protection of rights and the guarantee of individual freedoms. These instruments should contribute to the effectiveness of our Intellectual Property Act, guaranteeing the creative momentum and the legal framework of rights and obligations, creating this new system. Our duty as legislators is to solve citizens' problems. We need a stable legal framework that complies with European Union law and is unattainable in its court. We need that legal framework today, and I hope that it will achieve the greatest consensus among the different actors. We have worked very hard - and I would like to point out this expressly - with the rights management bodies. I would like to thank you for your willingness to agree, even being aware that the decree-law that we present for your validation is significantly removed from your initial expectations. And I would particularly like to thank the parliamentary groups for their cooperation, aware of the need to reach agreement. We have collected in this royal decree-law important contributions from you, such as the fees on mobile phones, tablets or monofunctional printers, which already exist in countries of our environment. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of a stable legal framework to support creators is part of the Culture 2020 Plan. Reaching an agreement today on this royal decree-law is a good first step in advancing the path of pacts, defending talent, creating wealth and giving stability to the creative process. For all that, Mr President, I would ask you to vote in favour of the validation of Royal Decree-Law 12/20117, of 3 July. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Forum will abstain in the validation of this royal decree-law because we have a programmatic commitment to our voters to develop the digital culture and promote the appropriate means for its promotion and dissemination, a commitment in which we also value the suppression of the digital canon. Precisely this royal decree-law recovers, albeit as a substitute, the canon that was declared null and void by the Supreme Court in November 2016, but that previously had also received severe varapalos from other courts, case of the National Court and, more recently, of the European High Court of Justice. For the elaboration of this royal decree-law, the criterion of the managing companies that will receive the compensations derived from the application of this canon has been taken into consideration, but the entities, associations of users on which the payment of this new formula will fall will be excluded that will charge the cost of the compensation by private copy to the carriers or recording apparatus of contents subject to intellectual property, in the case of mobiles, tablets or USB memories, among other devices and products whose final price will be charged. Agreeing on the need to adequately compensate those who have copyright and intellectual property rights, the application of this royal decree-law, for whose elaboration - I repeat - was heard only to the beneficiary party, will return us to a time in which many hundreds of thousands of people in Spain expressed their firm opposition to the digital canon. I see in the guest gallery some of its most significant representatives following this debate. At the Forum we also express serious doubts that this new formula will help the implementation and dissemination of digital culture and the evolution of digital skills, a subject in which the Spaniards are below the European average, according to the most recent and qualified reports. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, I know you've been a minister for ten months, and so you didn't... already? Yeah? [[Minister of Education, Culture and Sport, Mendez de Vigo y Montojo: A year ago]] [[Minister of Education, Culture and Sport, Mendez de Vigo y Montojo: Time passes...]] Well, it is curious that we always hear here the words of this responsible government, seriously, when it turns out that they have to bring this royal decree law into urgent procedure because they fail to comply with the European directive and because they have a threat of sanctioning file. This sanctioning file is endorsed by the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Supreme Court. These rulings clearly state this: private copies were being paid with public money, legal uncertainty was being created, an indiscriminate system was being put in place, and rights holders and citizens were being seriously harmed. In short, they do this because they have no choice. As I said, they have harmed the creative community in their training, scholarship, social assistance, promotion and also citizens because we were all paying for any private copy that, in addition, became almost illicit. I'm done. In spite of what Mr Montoro says, this member of a contumid peripheral left will vote in favour of this royal decree of a pertinent right. We do this out of pragmatism, because we understand that, although this actual decree can be greatly improved, the creators will improve their situation compared to the previous one because it is in line with the European directive and the judgments that have been handed down, because it is comparable to the legislation of almost all the countries of the European Union and because this text is also agreed with a large part of the associations of authors, artists, publishers and producers. We hope that development or regulation can be significantly improved. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u67	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, this royal decree is, in our view, neither a final point nor a point of arrival, neither by form nor by content. I would still like to tell you that we are going to vote in favour of its validation. In our view, this royal decree is an amendment to decisions of previous Council of Ministers, but it is an amendment for good and that is why we will have our support. The previous model, the model of charging private copies to the General Budgets of the State did not work; we said it, the sector said it and finally the European Union said it. You present this royal decree almost urgently to solve a problem that is not new, that you knew it was there and that you knew that one day you would have to solve. That is why we disagree in the forms, but we still subscribe to much of the content of this document. We believe that it is necessary to promote a model of fair compensation that complies above all with European law, but also with the meaning, vision and strategy of the Spanish cultural sector. That wasn't so until now, and that's a little less so today. We are aware - I am going to be a bit naif - that none of the charges provided for by this royal decree will end up impacting on the final consumers both in the case of equipment, equipment or software, but we still believe that the priority must be to preserve the rights of intellectual property in order to protect a cultural sector that needs the support of the Government, the support of this House and the support of the whole country. That is why, together with the parallel work that we are doing in the Commission on the creation of the status of the artist, it seems to us that this royal decree that is to be adopted here today is a good step to help the cultural sector and the artists of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not repeat certain issues that other groups and the minister himself have already said; we come to the validation of Royal Decree-Law 12/2017, of July 3. Three years ago, in July 2014, we approved the amendment of the Law on Intellectual Property with - let me express it since it is a word that does not exist in the dictionary - 'truth' and some lightness; we could also call it summery, but the lightness thing I will leave it. I say this because it was a bit complicated circumstances when the amendment of that law was approved, with many groups that we had worked on submitting a lot of amendments. Following the common sense and the express request of the authors, the beneficiaries and the entities working in the world of culture, our group has tabled amendments so that there is no need to give the compensation that we are going to adopt today to the General Budgets of the State; amendments that were not accepted. The government defended the need for change, that the digital canon was an absurdity that had to be changed, that made no sense... And look where, we go back to the exit box. I told you, Minister, with all my affection from this rostrum a couple of weeks ago, that you were the rectifying minister, and there are already three. I repeat it to you again today, because you are the minister who never says to rectify but, for your sake, you are the only one who rectifys, and I think that is very positive. The so-called fair compensation for private copying is currently financed, since the amendment introduced by the Royal Decree of 7 December, by an item in the General Budgets of the State of each year. This system has been described by the European Court of Justice as absolutely incompatible with Community law and settled the question referred by the Supreme Court for a preliminary ruling. Thus, the Court of Justice of the European Union stated in that judgment on Article 5: It must be interpreted as opposing a system of fair compensation for private copying which, like the one at issue in the main proceedings, is covered by the State's general budgets without it being possible to ensure that the cost of such fair compensation is borne by users of private copies. Something clear and pristine. Therefore, the judgment annuls the Royal Decree of 2012 of 7 December. In this way, by means of the present royal decree-law which you present, the current model of fair compensation, financed from the General Budgets of the State, is replaced by a model based on the payment of an amount to be met by the manufacturers and distributors of equipment, apparatus and supports, that is, the digital canon, in compliance with European law. To this end, according to the Decree-Law, various amendments are made to the current Intellectual Property Act. The concept of a private copy limit is redefined, who are subject to creditors are indicated, and the concretion of both equipment and media, etc., is referred to. Without valuing the adjustment and correction of the transitional amounts of fair compensation for private copying, which I believe is something that we should develop more calmly a posteriori, what is worth us today is the intention to change the concept that appears in the law. We believe that it is a positive step that the Government has taken in recognizing that it was wrong, and there are already many mistakes made by one absent minister, and another has come to correct that. At the time of the adoption of the decision on the possible advisability of approving the validation of this royal decree-law, it is necessary to evaluate the use of this exceptional normative formula both for this particular case and in general for others, since this Government has recently issued twelve decree-laws. In the light of the above-mentioned judicial rulings, there is no doubt that it is obliged to comply with the law of the European Union to proceed to the urgent regulation of a new system that is in conformity with European and State case law. It is also true that the Supreme Court's ruling rejecting the financing of equitable compensation for private copying was issued as the Government was in office in June 2016, a situation that prevented the submission of a bill. That is so, but it is no less true that the option for budgetary financing of the digital canon, as I said at the beginning of my speech, was one of the first decisions taken by this government in the previous legislature - we approved it in the summer in the Commission, but in the end it was in December 2012 -, altering the general system in force until then that made it bear the cost of fair compensation to users of private copies, which was finally declared contrary. Therefore, it was something conscious, which the Government knew. I also take this opportunity to denounce the situation in which the Basque Country has been disappeared following the violation of the terms of transfer of functions and services in the field of intellectual property; a violation carried out through the subsequent modification of the points of connection to determine the competent administration contained in the amendment of the Law on Intellectual Property. We denounce it in your day and now we take the opportunity to denounce it again and for you, Minister, to take note of how this issue is going. We therefore believe that adequate justification is required by the Government for the seriousness of the damage that may result from the adoption of this legislative amendment by the appropriate parliamentary procedure and, I repeat - some fellow Members have said earlier - we believe that, of course, the authors should benefit, because it is their right and their obligation to benefit the authors, but that can never be to the detriment of users and consumers. We need to strike a balance so that all parties are satisfied. In that regard, the use of the exceptional possibility of legislative provisions by the Executive should be limited to real and exceptionally precise cases. In view of this situation, it would be desirable for our group, in order to avoid the excessive and sometimes unjustified use of this exceptional normative measure, that is, the use of the Royal Decree-Law which the Government uses, to be treated as a bill by parliamentary procedure. Our group will support the validation of this royal decree-law but will also request that it be treated as a bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u70	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic principle of copyright regulation must ensure a fair balance, as we mentioned here, between the economic rights of authors, producers or distributors and the regulation of a number of exceptions allowing the use of such works, with or without remuneration. That is the basic principle of this law. From Esquerra we have always argued that, in accordance with the Community directive, authors have the right to receive fair compensation for reproductions made for private purposes. However, take into account that the law provides for the right of reproduction - I repeat, of reproduction - which legitimizes the owner to authorize or prohibit the production of copies of his work, which we have defined as a private copy. We have always criticized that the pattern of distribution of such compensation was discriminatory and unfair and, if not, see recent cases with management entities such as SGAE. The subsequent drift of the PP to abolish the mechanism and replace it with a very small, very small payment, on account of the General Budgets of the State, distorted the fundamental principle of the law, since then we all paid for it, whether we made use of it or not. The system of equitable compensation from the general budgets of the State has no parallel in any other Member State of the European Union and does not respect the principle of equity between the damage suffered by the authors of protected works and their subsequent compensation. In addition, it means transferring the cost of such compensation, as we have said, to the whole of the citizenry, when the concept of compensation itself must imply that it is done in accordance with the use or not of the private copy. It is therefore not acceptable for citizens who do not make private copies to be obliged to bear the cost. We have already stated at the time that this reform contravened the European guidelines and, in fact, the Court of Justice of the European Union has finally given us reason; hence we assume that the proposal that you put forward by decree-law to try to resolve a mistake that you made at the time is born. But let's focus. What is now the actual framework for debate that includes such a decree-law? The regulation of the digital cannon. A regulation that we believe in our group that starts from a misdiagnosis, an insufficient diagnosis. We must apply an analog law, the results of which were also correct, to a fully digital context, and the focus of the issue is no longer property in the heritage sense but its use as a service. That is the big difference and really where there are contradictions. Indeed, if one of the objectives is to reduce piracy, we believe that the approach is not exactly the right one. We can agree more or less on the increase in the rate that it implies for the selling prices of all that would be equipment, appliances and supports. Keep in mind - it is important - that today are platforms like Netflix or Spotify that manage the contents as a service, and this seems to be a trend that will eventually affect many areas. More than reproductions or downloads, we talk about usage licenses or flat rates, so the scenario has changed, from 2014 to the present it has changed radically. In any case, regulation should also extend to those network operators, distributors and platforms that obtain a direct benefit from the content. Only then would we understand from Esquerra Republicana that there is a real application, an application without gaps that affects not one sector but the whole sector. We therefore believe that what is raised in the proposal before us is insufficient. Frankly, the decree-law does not contemplate this issue and we believe it is very important, and it is that the scenario from 2014 until now has changed enormously; it is what happens when you want to recover a model from three years ago without having previously made a good diagnosis or a deep debate. The rush to the pressures of the European Union is not good advisors, and from here we ask that we no longer complicate the current scenario by misdiagnosing it. The legislative errors that have been made in this area have been precisely because of the urgency to tackle specific issues. We understand that it is not enough, therefore, to introduce partial amendments as the State is forced to transpose Community directives which affect the regulation of intellectual property and it is therefore well known that the current Intellectual Property Act needs a thorough reform to incorporate all those changes that have taken place in the information, cultural and technological markets and to transpose the various Community directives as a whole. The hurry, the urgency we believe does not reflect all this and, therefore, it is important that the reform that is intended to incorporate new elements as at the time we have already proposed in the Republican Left, as is the need to incorporate the autonomous powers in all matters relating to the control of the management entities in accordance with the judgment 196/1997 of the Constitutional Court. There are many elements that are not collected and should be used to do so if profound reform is to be undertaken. For all these reasons, we will abstain from this proposal and we ask, yes, for its processing as a draft law in order to be able to discuss and update a law which we believe is fundamental and which must face new paradigms, not at this time, not to try to resolve today the judgment which may fall on the part of the European Union, but to try to really solve a very broad project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Alvarez Palleiro has the floor. Mr ÁLVAREZ PALLEIRO: Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mari Mar, yesterday, today, tomorrow and always our parliamentary group, the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, will be with Miguel Ángel Blanco, with his recognition, with what is his eternal memory for what he was and what will be the struggle of all democrats against terrorist barbarism. [[Applauds]] Our hug, Marimar. Today the Government brings us a royal decree-law for the amendment of the consolidated text of the Intellectual Property Act as regards the system of fair compensation for private copying. Minister, I could begin this intervention by rescuing some of the substantial and certain Spanish sayings: At good times, green sleeves; it is never late if the bliss is good or, as we say in my land, Santander, it never rained that it did not escape. Or perhaps you could start by taking up that famous tale of The Naked King, although in this case the title should be the former Secretary of State for Naked Culture - Mr. Lassalle - who with a particular visual legislative perspective that only he seemed to have, in addition to the roller of the absolute majority of the People's Party, walked among the crowd believing to wear the best of clothing, when we all saw that he was actually totally naked in legislative clothing as a reason. I note this because it was a cry, an evidence, that the tenth additional provision of the Royal Decree-Law 20/2011 and the subsequent Royal Decree 1657/2012, which regulated the procedure for payment of the fair compensation for private copying by the State General Budgets, was a genuine bolusa. It was a real blush for the People's Party government and by extension for Spain. It caused enormous damage to the creators, artists and cultural industries of our country and was clearly illegal in not complying with European Directive 2001/29, as confirmed by the different judgments of both the Court of Justice of the European Union and our Supreme Court. Already in 2015, Citizens saw that the rules on private copying were not fair to cultural creators and industries and did not conform to European rules. We include it in our electoral programme and hence the requirement - point 91 - which we include in Mr Rajoy's investiture agreement, which provides for a review of the aspects relating to private copying, its compensation and its scope in order to adapt our rules to those of the countries in our environment. You say in the explanatory statement of this royal decree-law that today we are presented for validation that the previous system of charging equitable compensation to the general budgets of the State was a system of financing literally not new, since it was already applied in some countries of our European environment, and that it was transitory in nature until it had a clear guideline on the part of the European Union. I would like to make three comments on this point, Minister. Firstly, they say that this system was applied in some European countries. In particular, it applies in two cases; in Finland, which is awaiting revision of this system; and in Norway, which does not belong to the European Union. Two twenty-eight if we count Norway, which is not within the European Union. Not bad. Secondly, they say it was transitory. Five years is not bad either; it is a long journey in the desert, especially for our creators and cultural industries. Our perception is that this occurrence of Mr. Lassalle came to stay and it was the courts of justice that put him in his place. Thirdly, that system of compensation from the general budgets was even to have a clear guideline on the part of the European Union. The only countries that did not make this clear within the European Union were the Finns, Mr Lassalle and the People's Party Government, because the rest of Europe's countries such as Holland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Greece - Lords of Podemos - Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Portugal, etc. had it so meridically clear that none of them used this compensation system. [[Applauds]] This is not the first time that the government in this legislature has come rushing to this House, as Captain Alatriste would say, to undo miscarriages that were not able to resolve with that absolute majority, ignoring and jumping to the toaster European directives, but it is no longer a matter of crying over spilled milk, and today we are presented for validation this royal decree-law, which will already announce to you that it will have the support of the Parliamentary Group Citizens. We will support it for two fundamental reasons. Firstly, because the design of the private copying limit of this Royal Decree-Law is finally in line with European Directive 2001/29, and we, who have a clear vocation and a deep European spirit, are in favour of complying with European legislation. Surely others are against Europe, intellectual property and property in its most generic sphere. Secondly, because this system of fair compensation - now, Minister, rather than - will equate us to the rest of the countries of the European Union. I hope this is the first step of many in the defence of intellectual property rights that will be adopted in this legislature. I will not give you an enumeration, but you know, Minister, that the list of reforms and actions, both legislative and executive, that need to be promoted is long and in some cases urgent. Taking advantage of the fact that today the Pisuerga passes through the Congress of Deputies, I would like to address the creators, artists and all those who form the Spanish cultural fabric that today are represented in a majority in the different management entities and associations that accompany us in the gallery of guests to thank you for your effort, your dedication, your talent and encourage you in the effort to continue to make culture a fundamental and vertebral element of our country, in addition to a reference to the world level, as you do on many occasions. Thank you so much for your work and even for your daring. [[Applauds]] Before I finish this intervention - my first intervention in the Chamber - because I consider it to be justice and also because I feel like it, I would like to thank my colleague Marta Rivera for being essential, my colleague Guillermo for being fundamental and the rest of this team that accompanies the three of us and that works hard by making useful policy, by making real policy, which it transcends, of which it serves, in this case, to improve the culture of our country. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Alvarez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Maura Zorita has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in July 1997 I was sixteen years old. I remember perfectly those days of July and for that very reason and because today we remember the pain that Miguel Ángel Blanco suffered during his kidnapping and murder, I want to send a hug to his relatives, his party companions and all the neighbours of Ermua. [[Applauds]] Given the debates and events of yesterday and today, I would also like to say that in the memory of that enormous pain, in that memory that is of all, no one should be more than anyone nor pretend to be more than anyone, because no one in that pain is more than anyone nor less than anyone. [[Applauds]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government's decree today is a historic change of position. I'll tell you in a minute. Until Rajoy's first legislature we had the digital canon and so we made up for the private copy. This allowed management entities to share a lot of money between authors and editors. The supports were recorded - for example, CDs - and this was very controversial, as you will remember. First, because it was not well known how that money was distributed; some entities did it better, such as DAMA or Aisge, and others worse, such as SGAE. Second, because there was a presumption of some intentionality that could be compensated ex ante to the person who bought a hard drive or a virgin DVD. Mariano Rajoy, who was then opposition in the seventh year before populisms, in 2007, did not like the canon either. In October 2010, the European Court, at the request of the Barcelona Provincial Court, handed down the judgment known as Padawan, which established that the indiscriminate application of the private copying fee was not in accordance with Directive 29/2001. The Barcelona Provincial Court ruled against SGAE and in favour of Padawan S.L. and the PP, which by then had won the 2011 elections, committed to taking the counter to the PSOE as it were, decided that it was best to make the compensation for even more indiscriminate private copying, so it was allocated to the General Budgets of the State so that we would all pay it with our taxes. This was not understood by anyone and everyone saw that it was a fatal painting, but it was also approved with the absolute majority of the PP and over time even put Lasalle Law on the creature to honor its inspired author. Now we were all paying, but where there were 100 million there were only 5 or not, because the PP did not pay the amounts it owed. Then the management entities - here present - rebelled and sued him, who won precisely because that had basically neither feet nor head. In November 2016, the Supreme Court annulled the Lasalle Law - what things - and the Kingdom of Spain went on to fail to comply with all the regulations in place and because there was in the matter of compensation for private copying. The best thing is that someone from the government, with Rajoy already invested, thought: how good this Lasalle should have been that he has not left nor the solar, let's name him nothing less than Secretary of State of Digital Agenda. Minister, Digital Agenda! Don't tell me it's not a good story! We had to sort this out as it were, so someone decided that we had to go back to the starting point but with less money, that times are hard. As if nothing had happened, basically, but it has, Minister and gentlemen of the Government, many things have happened. The first thing - just to say - is that they owe a lot of money to the management entities and, through them, to the authors, editors and copyright holders in this country. [[Applauds]] The second thing is that the world has changed a lot, also that of culture. The social uses of culture, the media, the practices, the way we create, produce and enjoy culture have changed. We use tablets and smartphones, through them we access Spotify, Amazon Prime, Netflix, Bandcamp, SoundCloud, Filmin, Youtube, HBO, etc., whose license models do not require compensation for private copying. I do not now enter into myself better or worse, but life has changed irreversibly and not precisely in the sense of making more private copies. Many of us have been alerting about this situation for a long time, pointing out that a substantive debate is needed on the sustainability and fair remuneration of cultural professionals, while proposing alternatives for mixed financing of culture, such as a fee for network operators or the cultural box in the income declaration, while advocating legislation adapted to current uses. Entities are well aware that private copying is not the future of collective rights management, nor is it difficult to realize whether one is up to date on technological trends, as is the case. However, the Government asks us to act as if nothing; pure fiction, basically. And here we are, in the middle of 2017 entangled in private copy compensation without having had an in-depth debate on the validity and definition of private copy. At a time when computers are manufactured without DVD player and already practically without USB port, we still have no debate about the validity and definition of private copy. What are we talking about, gentlemen of the government? They also agree with the entities this decree - a very logical thing - but they do not have consumer associations, such as Facula or the OCU, which have been strongly opposed, nor with associations of startups, self-employed or netizens. Frankly, everything that surrounds this decree, regardless of whether it recognizes the work behind it, produces quite perplexity. I'm going to the bottom and I'm done. The problem is the sustainability of culture, that is, that it is possible to devote oneself to culture with rights and fair remuneration. Culture professionals don't want an annual pay, they don't want to be more than anyone else, but neither do they want more than decent work with rights, that it is possible to have projects, they want to set up these projects themselves, what they really want and demand is a bit of stability and dignity. The reality is that if the compensation for private copying was 400 million a year - for putting an extreme and unrealizable case - it would still be very difficult to dedicate itself to culture in a sustainable way, there would still be a huge, overwhelming and burning precariousness, would equally proliferate the false autonomous, the problems to collect the pension, the impossible financing or almost impossible of the medium and small projects, the uninsured journeys after a flight in black, the delays in the charges, the defaults, the abusive clauses in the contracts - if there is a contract - the inequality between men and women and the accidents at work - and go my memory to the family and friends of Pedro Aunión, whom we have lost this weekend in Madrid -. [[Applauds]] There is consensus to end this situation; consensus for a retirement worthy of creators and professionals of culture; consensus for a mixed financing of decent culture; consensus for the trade union representativeness of the sector so that stable and dignified collective agreements can be negotiated. There is consensus in this House for all that, and those measures cost less than this vintage decree that has cost them so much. They cost much less work and are much more effective. I'm done. Of course, you have to go slowly. Politics does not cease to be the art of 'in the meantime', but it is not the art of 'in the meantime'. For all this and because the legislator cannot afford to live away from the world that has touched him, we will not support them today. United Left will abstain. We can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea we will vote against the digital canon and this decree that we believe should for its complexity be treated as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Maura. Mr Torres Mora has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the real decree we are debating now is the first step in redressing an error and an injustice; a short step, but a step in the right direction that we are going to support. What injustice and what error does this decree come to mitigate? For those provoked by a decision made by President Rajoy in December 2011, that is, when he had barely been in charge of the Government of Spain for a week. At a time of major cuts in social policies, the Government decided to save more than €100 million to the technology industry and pay the compensation for private copying with money from the State General Budgets. It is ironic that that decree was called 'correction of the public deficit'. Until that decree came into force, those who benefited from making a copy of films, books or songs paid for the damage they caused to the authors because they could not sell them directly. But since December 2011 people like my mother, that is, people who have not only never made a copy of a song or film, but have never bought a medium that can make copies, pay with their taxes the compensation for making copies of those who do. [[Applauds]] Is that a fairer system than there was? Obviously, no; it's more unjust. That's right, there were no protests. People like my mother, who never bought technology to buy movies, books, or songs, did not send us hundreds or thousands of mails or tweets to protest the new system that made them pay for the harm caused to cultural creators. The desire for justice moved the mobilized; greed moved the mobilizers. Once the new and most unfair system was established, the manufacturers and distributors of that technology remained silent counting their millions. It was then that we discovered, moreover, that the Government was not going to pay the creators according to the amount of damage that the private copy did to the creators' rights, but according to the budget availability. And who decides the budget availability? Mr Montoro, indeed, a soul sensitive to cultural issues wherever there are them! Thus, out of 100 or 110 million per year in which private copying damage was estimated, culture went on to receive 5 million; the 5 million available not as a right but as a grace, a sad grace. In this way, the Government, in its first week at the head of the country, did the first thing it did was to give 100 million annually to producers and distributors of copying technology tools and to defraud 95 million to creators of culture. By the way, there's a certain left that doesn't see the logic of capitalist accumulation until it studies it in history books. Hannah Arendt said that the logic of accumulation was always imposed on private property; that is, the primitive accumulation of capital comes to the theft when necessary. At the origin of every great fortune there is a crime, said the author of Human comedy, and recently we have seen immense fortunes rise in the technological sector. We have for a few years been witnessing, not only in our country, a long process of looting of intellectual property rights, a looting before which the Government, but not only the Government, has remained passive when it does not complicit. The curious thing is that when some major technological companies, the most modern and advanced, have turned virtuously in their policies of respect for the rights of culture, there is in this House who still opposes the validation of this royal decree for exactly the same reasons that led President Rajoy to make the late December 2011. When the right rectifies from positions that are said to be left-wing, there are those who persevere in what Caesar Rendueles has rightly called cyberfetishism, without understanding that to guarantee access to culture it is necessary first to guarantee the production of culture: of new films, of new songs, of new books. I'm afraid, on this occasion, differentiating is not the same as distinguishing itself. [[Applauds]] This royal decree does not actually fix the future, but it fixes the present and better bird in hand, especially because passing this royal decree does not begin that we can improve everything else that culture needs, but it facilitates that with this step we climb the rest of the steps. I do not know whether by virtue or necessity I want to think that there are two things, with this royal decree the Government corrects its policy. Two judgments, one from the High Court of Justice of the European Union on 16 June last year and another from 10 November last year from the Supreme Court, oblige our country to amend this legislation and to do so with care. We have been working on amending this legislation for a long time. For us to be able to adopt this text, it has taken many people's work, many people's time, in particular the management entities. They are criticized, but without them the creators would not be defended their rights. They are absolutely necessary, as are the unions, for them to be defended. It is your work, your experience, your effort, which allows you to receive compensation that is yours. I must also acknowledge the efforts of my fellow speakers in the Committee on Culture, the parliamentary groups that have worked to ensure that this reform is carried out. Finally, nobility obliges, I recognize the efforts of the Ministry of Culture to seek a consensus that can rectify a wrong and unjust policy. That consensus, which was so hard to build, was never to be broken by a pen, as was done in 2011. I insist, however, that we are far from repairing the damage that has been done to culture. Ladies and gentlemen, what we do is we give back to the creators a part of what is yours, a small part, and it is not only the right thing, it is also the most convenient thing for everyone, also for the technology industry. I'm done. More than thirty years ago I was a newly graduated student in unemployment sociology and was doing a computer course, which, as it was said at the time, was something that had a lot of future. At a break, a graduate in Chemistry asked me: What is sociology for? To explain to you why you ask me an instrumental question - I answered it -. I didn't see him very convinced, so I asked him, "Do you know what it's for an engineer who makes a record player?" He said to me, "Yes, of course." He was a smart kid, but I don't think he understood everything until I asked him, "And you know what Mozart's for? When you know what Mozart's for, it's when you understand everything. It is to the good strain of Mozart, Picasso, Cervantes, Buñuel, to which we serve today with a step that remains short, it is true, but that goes in the right direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Torres Mora. Mrs García-Pelayo Jurado has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin as appropriate. Mr. Maura knows I appreciate you. I agree with you that no one is more than anyone, but I do believe that someone is less than anyone when he does not have the moral height or the greatness of heart to recognize or remember that twenty years ago a person, regardless of the ideology he had - a person - gave his life to defend the freedoms of others. [[Mr. Maura Zorita makes negative gestures]] That's why I'm going to stay there, I'm not going to follow; I'm just going to throw a very big kiss to Mar. [[Applauds]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what brings us here today is the request for the validation of Royal Decree-Law 12/2017 of 3 July, amending the consolidated text of the Intellectual Property Act as regards the system of fair compensation for private copying. I would like to begin by thanking the various political groups for their support in making it possible, in the end, to validate this royal decree-law. But I would also like to thank the Ministry of Culture, with the Minister at the front, and the entire Government for making it possible for a definitive solution to a problem that is historic. I have been drawn to the attention of Mr Torres Mora, who referred to 2011. It seems that the problem of compensation for private copying is born in 2011; it is not so and you know that we are not solving a historical but prehistoric problem. I return to the Padawan sentence where they were already drawn attention - and the Socialist Party ruled in Spain - to the compensation system that our country had. I even want to remind the Socialist Party that the Sustainable Economy Act already required them to have a new system on 6 June 2011. They left the Government of Spain and left the problem to the Government of the People's Party. A Government that made it very clear that the system it established was not a definitive system but was temporary or transitional. Therefore, it was recognized from the very first moment of its creation that it was not the desirable system for all. Today it is being corrected, today we are joining the European model. By the way, it has come to be said here that the system of the People's Party Government was an illegal system. Nobody here has said that the system was illegal; the only thing that has been said is that, in relation to legal persons, the possibility of claiming exemptions in relation to the payment of compensation was not allowed, but in no case has the legality of the procedure been questioned. I think it's also important to put it on the table. In short, thank you very much to all who make it possible. I have addressed the Government, I have addressed the political groups but I want to do it - and I look up - to the management entities. I would personally like to thank Antonio Fernández Carrasco, representing Adepi, for the important work he has done. Why? Because it has been almost the bridge that has allowed us to engage all political groups. I am seeing the Secretary of State for Culture, whom I would also like to thank for being here today. Thank you all, thank you for putting an end to an interim situation, a situation of provisionality. Thank you for making it possible for Spain to join the European model of compensation for private copying and thank you also - why not say so? - for making it possible for us to avoid the possible sanctions that could have fallen from Europe to Spain for failing to conform to that model. I want to talk about the times too. They say why now, hurry and run. No, hurry and run no, you have in many cases provoked you to do things now hurry and run. Why? Because this government has been in a situation of indwelling or in office for longer than we and, of course, what the Spaniards would have wanted. If there had been stability two years ago or a year ago, obviously, today we would not have had to come, as you say, fast and running. I am now going to list some of the issues that I also think stand out in relation to this royal decree-law. You know well that the Law on Intellectual Property recognizes the creators, the ones we respect - and that is why we are here today - the ones we support and those we recognize the value that they bring to our economy and not only to our culture, the right to authorize or prohibit their works from being reproduced in whole or in part by any means or support. But the law also establishes a limit to this author's right in his work, primarily when there is no benefit to the person making the copy or when this copy is for private use. In these cases, a compensation system is also established. To regulate this right to just and equitable compensation or compensation is what brings us here today. We cannot forget, on the other hand - and I think it is also essential to stress this - that with this decree-law, with this validation, we put an end to a stage of uncertainty caused by a legal vacuum and that the model that the Government brings today - we must also emphasise this - is, as I have said, a model agreed with all, but above all it is a transparent, sustainable and stable model over time. They are no longer going to give themselves any more bandages because a definitive solution has already been given to an issue which, I insist, has been dragging itself for many years. The model clearly defines rights creditors, who are and will be our creators, owners of intellectual property, but also defines the bonded ones, who are the manufacturers and distributors of equipment. I will try not to repeat issues that have already been mentioned, but I would like to highlight one. It has been said, somewhat more or less, that someone here is going to be rich and I think that with the system that is being put in place - it will have to be checked over time - there is in principle no justification for consumers to have to pay any toll for this system that is being put in place. Why? First, because we believe that it is a system that is reasonable for all parties: for the creators, of course, yes, and for the management entities, but also - and this is important - for the manufacturers and consumers who are ultimately the ones who have to worry about us all. Why do I say it doesn't have to affect consumers? Because it doesn't have to affect market prices. In principle, the implementation of this model does not have to affect market prices. Why? Because it only affects 0.056% of the turnover of technology companies. Therefore, 0.0 % would mean zero price rise. We say that and move it with all the clarity in the world. On the other hand, and I am finishing, I would also like to point out to you that what we approve today is what we could call a general framework. It has been said here, and Mr Maura mentioned it, that there are many things to be done. Obviously, that's the way it is. The overall framework is being approved today. It is a procedure, a system that has to be applied step by step for which, of course, consensus and joint work will continue to be needed. I end up saying something that I think is important. It has also been said that there are many issues relating to intellectual property, copyright and piracy. In short, everything has been talked about, but perhaps Mr Maura's intervention has not focused on the substance of what he brings us here today because what he has done has been to shoot politically at everything that moves. Mr Maura, you are on the Committee on Culture, in which I believe we are working hard and we are doing so at the government's urging: we have approached a Culture 2020 Plan, also important initiatives to create an anti-piracy prosecutor to strengthen the Intellectual Property Commission and also important initiatives have been adopted in relation to the Reading Development Plan. In short, you know what is being done by this Government because this Government reports on the initiatives it approves and the initiatives it wants to transfer to the Congress of Deputies. I therefore criticise what you think you need to criticise because we, as I say to you, will continue to work even though we have not received any proposals from you in the previous days. No, don't make any gestures to me because we haven't received any of your proposals, even though you have been offered the opportunity to make such proposals. Let us really hope that with the consensus of all political groups this decree will finally be validated and let us really hope that it will be, because we consider it to be, the starting point of a common work towards the future for the benefit of our creators, ultimately for the benefit of our culture. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs García-Pelayo. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 13/2017, OF 7 JULY, APPROVING AN OFFER OF EXTRAORDINARY AND ADDITIONAL PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT FOR THE STRENGTHENING OF THE FIGHT AGAINST TAX FRAUD, SOCIAL SECURITY, LABOUR AND GAS CONTROL AREA, FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF DETERMINED SERVICES TO CITIZENS, AND BELIEVE SPECIALITIES IN BODIES AND SCHOOLS OF THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE STATE AND ITS PUBLIC ORGANISMS. [[File number 130/000019]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u80	We move on to the third item on the agenda. Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 13/2017 of 7 July, approving an extraordinary and additional offer of public employment for the strengthening of the fight against tax fraud, in social security, in the field of labour and expenditure control, for the improvement of the provision of certain services to citizens, and creating specializations in bodies and scales of the State Administration and its public agencies. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon the Government brings to the Congress of Deputies for validation the Royal Decree-Law which was approved by the Council of Ministers on the 7th, approving an extraordinary and additional offer of public employment to strengthen the fight against tax, labour and social security fraud and the control of expenditure, and creating specialities in bodies and scales of the State Administration and its public agencies. This extraordinary offer of public employment was approved by the Government along with the offer of ordinary employment, which in turn has had two different stages: the first, last March as a matter of urgency, and the second, on the same day 7 July. In all the offers promoted this year by the Government and which have previously obtained the support of the trade union representatives, gathered at the Bureau of the Civil Service, 28 249 places are called, which is the highest number since 2008. Of the total of these places, 20,451, representing 72,4 %, they will be covered per shift and the remaining 7798 will be covered by internal promotion procedures. Of the two job offers approved on day 7, the General Administration of the State has 10,323 new-entry positions and 5675 internal promotion positions, while the extraordinary includes 3832 open-ended positions and 450 internal promotion positions. In addition, as I have just pointed out, the Government has already adopted another royal decree last March as a matter of urgency with the offer of public employment in the fields of non-university and university teaching staff, Armed Forces, State Security Forces and Police Dependent Bodies of the Autonomous Communities for 2017 because these places, because of their characteristics, could not wait for the approval of the General Budgets of the State. In this case there were 6296 vacant places and 1673 internal promotion, which, as all honourable Members know, received a very broad support from this House. Why, after five years in which the number of public employees has been decreasing, do we drive these job offers? On the one hand, because there are needs that the State has an obligation to meet in order for citizens to have at their disposal quality public services that provide an effective and efficient response to their demands. On the other hand, because economic recovery and improvement in budgetary terms allow us to do so. The economic crisis forced us from the beginning of the 10th Legislature to make an adjustment to the staff of the Administration, which had grown excessively during the first years of the crisis despite the very serious budgetary difficulties. Now, once the number of public employees has returned to the previous levels of the crisis, slightly below 3 million people, and once economic recovery is consolidated, it is time to strengthen those areas that, after rigorous analysis, are considered more necessary for the functioning of the State and the service to society. That is why we have increased the number of services we consider to be priorities in the provision of ordinary public employment, where the rate of replacement of falls is 100%, compared to 50% of the rate in non-priority public services. In addition, we have considered that there are other public services that need to be further strengthened and hence their inclusion in the offer of extraordinary public employment. It is those who fight against all kinds of fraud and those who control public expenditure; two areas which are extremely sensitive both for improving public finances in general and for specifically combating mismanagement and corruption. As we strengthen these areas, we have undertaken an improvement in the quality of public employment. In both cases we are moving forward, with the agreement of the public service unions, in a dynamic which has been developing for months and which we both intend to extend in the future, for which we are already starting new talks. I would like to stress that this broad public employment offer that the Government has approved represents a necessary budgetary effort because it allows us to make progress in improving the administration by feeding new public services that are essential to meet the demand of citizens properly. From the labour point of view, this offer of employment will rejuvenate the Administration after years of budgetary restrictions have gradually raised the average age of the different staff. In addition, these job offers are going to incorporate people with a high degree of preparation, among other things because the number of places requiring a high level of specialization is increasing. The State thus offers all professionals, and certainly in a concrete way the young people who have been preparing in recent years, the possibility of developing a public service career that we want to be increasingly attractive, both professionally and economically and in terms of work. The new job offers open new expectations to thousands of people, both those who want to join the Administration from the private sector or to get out of an unemployment situation as well as to other people who are already employed by the State and who want to improve their working and professional conditions, through internal promotion places, which are one in five of those created this year. As I have pointed out, the areas that will be strengthened after the analysis carried out in recent months include a large number of highly specialized places, in order to respond to the challenges that Spanish society demands. We are looking for the most effective administration in all areas and the best provision of public service to citizens, and I believe that with the decisions we are taking in the field of public service, with the full cooperation and co-responsibility of trade unions, we are on the right track. Focusing already on the offer of extraordinary employment it is worth noting that it involves the creation of 4282 places over two years, 2017 and 2018. The reason for this is to speed up as much as possible the calls and the incorporation of troops in these areas in which I am insisting on combating tax and labour fraud and the control of public expenditure. In order to contribute to this work and to the improvement of the public service provided from these areas the offer of extraordinary public employment summons 2150 places in the Tax Agency, 415 in the Employment Service, 564 in the Administration of Social Security, 320 in the Inspection and Subinspection of Labour, and 178 in the bodies of the State Intervention. In all these cases half of the places correspond to the 2017 call and the other half to the 2018 call, except in the case of the State Employment Service, where there will be 215 this year and 200 next. The greatest effort to incorporate staff is being made by the Tax Agency, an institution which is essential in improving the revenue of the State, both in the area of ordinary tax management and in the fight against tax fraud, as it is also essential in working with the judiciary to deal with tax offences and corruption. That is why I have been explaining almost half of the places of the royal decree-law with the offer of extraordinary employment go to the Tax Agency, 2154 out of a total of 4282, which means the greatest allocation of human resources to the Tax Agency in many years. I would also like to point out that almost half of these 2150 places correspond to the most specialized bodies. In fact, the third part of them, 716, are for the Finance Technicians Corps, 180 for the State Finance Inspectors Corps, 110 for the Executive Corps of the Customs Surveillance Service and 34 for the Higher Customs Surveillance Corps. In addition, 310 customs officers and 800 public finance officers and administrative staff of the General Administration of the State will be added. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u82	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, I beg you, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u83	Fraud control has been a priority over the years and its results have been essential for strengthening public finances and combating the submerged economy. We must insist on the path we have taken, and for that we have new legal instruments and technological means, and now with this extraordinary job offer an expansion of staff which was very important to tackle and which is particularly satisfactory. In this regard, I would like to make special mention of the efforts made in recent years by the officials of the Tax Agency, the Public Service of State Employment, the General Administration of Social Security, the Inspection and Sub-Inspection of Labour and the bodies of the General Intervention of the State. They are part of those sectors which are the safeguarding of the State's finances, their work in the midst of the difficulties has allowed those mistressed finances of the crisis to be much stronger today, and can sustain the improvement of economic activity and job creation. In the years of greatest difficulty we could not improve the staffing levels as we would have liked, what we did was that the replacement rates were always the highest possible, while we approved specific improvements on a timely basis. In this regard, the two extraordinary public employment offers we promoted in 2014 and 2015 gave particular importance to the improvement of staffing in these sectors. We could not do the same last year as our wish would have been, because the political paralysis that forced a Government in office for more than ten months prevented it. I would also like to recall that in order to modernise the work of these sectors, while at the same time filling the staffing gaps that we have been forced to do because of the need and priority of reducing the public deficit, we have introduced policy and management improvements in human and material resources over the years. These government-driven initiatives, together with professionalism, the very high professionalism of our officials, who have developed work that has undoubtedly achieved excellence, have made it possible to continuously improve the results. To corroborate this, we have only to review the figures that have been achieved in the fight against fraud in all areas and in the fight against corruption, for example, the record five years that have been achieved in recent years in the collection of the fight against tax fraud. So here again today I would like to express appreciation to all those officials, to all those public employees who have done this enormous work. On the other hand, this offer of extraordinary employment has a second variable, which is that relating to places intended for the control and prosecution of fraud and the control of public expenditure. I am referring to the call for places designed to improve two essential services in the direct care of the citizen, in which there has been an urgent need to strengthen staffing this year. They are, on the one hand, the issuing offices of the DNI and passports, and, on the other hand, the examiners of the Directorate-General for Traffic to obtain the various driving licences. In this area, the offer includes the call for 150 places for the DNI issuing offices and passports, which join the 135 previous ones whose incorporation is imminent, and for 505 places of traffic examiners, of which 70 are of free turn and 435 are of internal scope to promote the professional training of the current examiners belonging to subgroup C2. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my speech, this extraordinary offer of public employment completes with the ordinary of the state's largest call for employment in recent years, and if in the first case we strengthen fundamental sectors in the fight against fraud and in the control of public expenditure, the ordinary offer consolidates the staff of the fundamental sectors, while increasing the number of these sectors that say that they are going to have replacement rates of one hundred percent, of the casualties that are going to occur. In this way, the sectors of the Administration of Justice, the Forces et Corpses de Seguridad del Estado, control of the efficient allocation of public resources, legal advice and management of public resources, fight against tax and labour fraud, prison administration, direct assistance to users of social services, benefits and active policies in the field of employment and railway safety are added this year to those of care for the citizen in the public services, direct provision of the public transport service and security and emergency. The main sectors in which this year the offer of ordinary public employment, approved last day 7, creates new places are: 1695 for the bodies of the General Administration, 743 for the Administration of Justice, 774 for Prison Institutions, 630 for Administration Technology, 386 for public research bodies, 250 national authorities, 227 for public health and 266 for museums, archives and libraries. In addition, this offer includes an estimate of more than 2600 additional places for the Administration of Justice at 743 of the replacement rate, corresponding to the number of places to be stabilized this year, according to the previous agreement signed with the unions in March to reduce labour instability and interinity, mainly in the Autonomous Administration. The total increase in staff that is called this year regarding the 2016 call is 9128 places, of which 7024 are of free turn and 2014 of internal promotion. In addition, 7 per cent of the places offered are reserved for persons with disabilities, in particular 2 per cent for persons with intellectual disabilities and 5 per cent for applicants with any other type of disability. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the broad range of public employment for this year is born as a result of the union of two mutually agreed wills. On the one hand, the willingness of the Government to improve staffing in certain areas of the public administration, once it said that the economic situation has improved, and consequently the budget, but also responds to the desire for dialogue and understanding demonstrated by both the Administration and the unions in the Civil Service Bureau to reach an agreement that benefits workers and society as a whole. From here it is clear that if this offer of employment has a priority motivation is their desire for public service, the determination of the Government of Spain and the unions of the Public Service to offer to the citizens the best attention by the Administration and the best functioning of all public services, in particular those that are priority for the good development of the State. I would like to highlight the significance of the agreement reached with the public service unions, not only because of the approval in itself of this offer of places, but also because we are both committed to improving the quality of public employment. The Ministry of Finance and Public Service and the trade unions are committed to a dynamic of understanding that is undoubtedly very good for everyone, especially for the employees of the Administration, and at the same time we serve all the citizens, which makes sense to all our work. This dynamic had as one of its main milestones the signing, last March, of the agreement to end the high rate of temporality in the public administration, especially in the autonomous one. This agreement, proposed and promoted by the Conference of Autonomous Presidents, as well as the extension of priority sectors for the purpose of the replacement rate, allows for the initiation of selection processes to consolidate the number of existing places in priority areas for the citizen, such as health, education and the administration of justice, and will give job stability, up to 90% of the existing temporary places amounting to around 300 000. These two agreements, that of job stability and that of the offer of employment, reached in a fairly short period of time, represent a demonstration that understanding is possible in any area where there is will between the parties. In this case it is clear that all the partners we have engaged in this negotiation have put the greatest interest and the general interest of the citizens ahead of any other consideration. In doing so, we have reached a very positive and reasonable agreement, because, as I said, we take advantage of the improvement of the economic situation in Spain to achieve greater advantages for our public employees, and ultimately to serve society better. At the same time, we are consistent and respect the objectives of reducing the public deficit. This double consideration, taking advantage of the margin offered by the evolution of our country's economy to achieve improvements in the delivery of public services, while maintaining the deficit reduction path, shows us a scenario that can and should be used in other areas. The Government is, of course, in that endeavour, but in order to do so, it is necessary to meet with interlocutors who have the same willingness to the agreement and the same degree of commitment as the trade unions have shown these months. Based on the agreements we have reached and the willingness of the parties, we will continue to make progress in the dialogue, and we will continue the negotiation of basic and fundamental issues for the Public Service, including the improvement of salaries from the next 2018 financial year and from the next General State Budgets, as we have also announced. Ladies and gentlemen, strengthening public services is an obligation that affects us all. The Government wishes to focus on this strengthening by improving the human and material resources and the quality of the public service, which will logically have an impact on improving the care and public services that citizens receive. To that end, we are counting on the support of the public service unions, whose response is consistent with the level of responsibility they have with the workers and with the administration itself in which they carry out their work. From here I ask your lordships and the political groups to support that goal shared with the trade union forces, and for that reason I ask for the vote in favour of the validation of this royal decreeley. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u85	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, when we see that something is reasonable, we do not care to vote in favour, and you will see it in this royal decree. We're going to vote in favour of validation. However, we will also make some comments. We will vote in favour because we find it reasonable and it is affecting sectors of the civil service that required this effort. Clearly, the fight against tax and labour fraud against social security is essential. It is also essential in two other sectors that may seem minority to them, but which from our point of view are fundamental, the first is that of all the officials who are attending to the renewals of the DNI and the passports in each of the centers. There is an excessive delay in the processing of these documents and they need to be supplemented. We don't think so, because in Catalonia we have a major deficit. I myself as mayor have suffered it in my city, in my province and is also happening in Barcelona. We therefore understand that it is reasonable. The second, which is equally reasonable, is the increase in places for people who examine for driving permits. It is also a subject that creates many problems for us in Catalonia. In fact, our group, the Democratic Party, presented a PNL to the Commission on Road Safety, defended by Mr Postius, which was unanimously adopted, and which called precisely for more funding. Nor does it seem enough to us, and from what has come to us we understand that it will only affect Barcelona and will not affect Lérida or Tarragona, which are two of the provinces that also have an excessive deficit. We therefore hope that it can be complemented. Beyond this, Minister, I will give some thought to what we are doing today. I would like to begin by thanking the Secretary of State for her willingness to provide us with all the information in advance, and I would ask you to convey our thanks to her. What we are doing today would also like to do to other administrations. I understand that this favourable budgetary environment that justifies this complement to the public employment offer, because it complements the 2017 replacement rate and anticipates the 2018 replacement rate, could also be achieved by local corporations or some autonomous communities. We are therefore going to vote in favour, but we encourage them to suggest that this favourable environment is not only for the General Administration of the State, but also for the autonomous communities, and especially for the local corporations that are generating surpluses year after year and that instead have restricted the replacement rate in many of the areas that are also priorities for citizen care. Therefore, Minister, it is a vote of confidence that they can resolve this issue and give equal treatment to local corporations and autonomous communities. It would be good if local corporations could anticipate it. I am no longer saying that we should eliminate the replacement rate - which I am also asking for, especially for those who generate surplus - but it would be good if we could also anticipate the replacement rates for future years and call for the public offer this year; it would make things easier for us. Minister, to conclude - and taking advantage of the Minister of the Interior present - I will tell you that, as you know this week, the Security Board has met, and I must say that it has gone very well; it has cost, but I believe that the conclusions are positive. In Catalonia we still have a question pending, which is the public offer for the squares of mossos d'ésquadra. As the Generalitat knows, it took 505 seats. He received a request from the Secretary of State for Budgets and Public Expenditure in which he urged that this public offer be made only in 50 places, and the Generalitat listened to him, the Councillor Jané listened to him; he kept the call in 50 places, withdrew the rest and under the Law of Budgets of 2017 he opened a new call with the remaining 450 places of mossos, minister. He has received further clarification regarding these 450 and has been answered. Solve it soon, Minister, because these places are important for the fight against fraud, they are important for issuing DNI and driving licences, but the security places in Catalonia are very important. We are almost under 1500 seats from what was approved on its day at the 2006 Security Board, 1500 seats below which the Interior Council wants to recover in three years. Let us not make it difficult, let us facilitate what is reasonable. Just as it is reasonable what you propose today and we will vote in favour, Minister, to facilitate this possibility from your ministry - and surely also the Ministry of the Interior will thank you for it - You say you call us at the door, and I'm very glad you call us at the door, but don't always give us lentils, or take them or leave them, also respond to some of the demands. These that they are doing from the Generalitat of Catalonia are reasonable for the security of Catalans, but it will also contribute to the security of the rest of the inhabitants of Spain and of all Europe, because this global concept of security cannot be limited only to Catalonia. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Baradiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u87	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Magi seem to have changed the date for the scope of the Civil Service and for the public services as well, because it seems that the government has decided that its epiphany is July 7, which also makes us think that there may have been a small intercession of San Fermín, throwing its famous capotico. [[Rumors]] Along with the approval of Royal Decree 702/2017, approving the offer of public employment for 2017, which was already foreseen in the budgets, we see that this Royal Decree-Law 13/2017 approves an extraordinary offer of public employment...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u88	Wait a minute, Mr. Barandiaran. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u89	He said that this Royal Decree-Law 13/2017 makes an extraordinary and additional offer to the previous one. This extraordinary and additional offer also says that it is aimed at urgently strengthening the attention and delivery of certain services, and from its text it is deduced that this new extraordinary and urgent endowment is directed, first, to the strengthening of the fight against tax fraud, for which it decides to create nothing less than 2150 places, at a rate of 1075 per year, the years 2017 and 2018, and all of them in free turn. There is also a strengthening of employment in the fight against fraud in the fields of labour and social security, for which 884 new places are created, at a rate of 442 per year. Next is a long cast that includes 178 places for the control of public expenditure, 150 for the offices of the DNI, 360 for the central services of SEPI and Fogasa, and another 40 for the same functions in autonomous bodies, for what they also create a new specialty, and finally no less than 505 places for driving licence examiners, which - as the memory also shows - offers a complete endowment of 4282 additional places, of which 3832 are of free turn. Therefore, as the first and most important issue, we would like to highlight the fact that by means of this royal decree-law the State has decided that it can overcome its Budget Act, but that to date it has followed a long tradition of making public officials and services pay for the cost of any public savings and the cost of any crisis. To this end, limits were imposed by the replenishment rate for public offers of employment, which, however, and on this occasion has been exempted from adding to the 2017 figures without that conditioning of the replenishment rate in sectors that it considers especially in need or of urgent attention. Secondly, all this extraordinary force is addressed - and this issue must be highlighted - to the General Administration of the State; that is, it does not affect the Autonomous Communities or the local entities, because it is not the services of the Autonomous Communities, but the General Administration of the State alone. The only area in which the measure affects policies that can be developed by autonomous communities, with assumed competences, is in relation to the Labour Inspectorate, where the offer for the Labour and Social Security Inspectorates Corps is a chapter where it already says that it takes place in compliance with article 5 of Law 23/2015, Computer of the Inspection System, since in such case the calls for the Inspectorates Corps are made by the State, taking into account the needs of both the State itself and the proposals by the autonomous communities with competence in this field. That was why the State could do so and the autonomous communities and local entities could not do so, even though that situation of the need to strengthen its own services was also a matter for all those administrations. In other words, this new or exceptional situation, why is it done only for the General Administration of the State and not also for the local and autonomous administrations? The question arises as to why the State Administration authorizes itself what prohibits the rest of public administrations, even though the relationships mentioned in the explanatory statement also serve to enable municipalities and autonomous governments to provide the same explanation for updating their staffing tables to those or higher needs possibly. But aside from these two main issues, it also draws attention to your opportunity or, if you do not understand it backwards, your inopportunity. I am talking about inopportunity because it is almost dramatic that only after the economic cycle has begun to improve will measures be taken to strengthen the fight against tax fraud, precisely when the need or the demand for income, being important, is not as intense as the one that has been produced so far. However, welcome be it, because such fraud, whatever its size, only generates distrust of the citizens in the institutions, which is to the detriment of all and of the system itself. Even more shocking is the strengthening of staff to combat social security fraud. With all due respect, this measure will be adopted the following year when we have just credited a deficit of EUR 18 billion in their current accounts can only be understood as late and untimely. Would it not have been more opportune to have made that effort earlier in order to avoid or at least partially alleviate that deficit? Welcome, but also late and bad. Equally critical is the creation and convening of posts for the management body responsible for unemployment benefits, as well as for the management of centralised employment promotion programmes, having frozen the staff dedicated to this purpose in the historical moment of greatest unemployment, of greatest unemployment, in order to now seek to restore that balance at the end of that cycle, which, with all due respect, is almost incongruous. However, understanding the need for all calls, because they all result in the improvement of the public service, we cannot fail to make a special mention of that concerning traffic examiners. It is striking that it is at this point, when they already have time on strike, when no fewer than 505 places are called, although only 70 of them are of new creation, by creating a new specialty in addition. I said welcome it, but I would like to recall the consequences of the absence of examiners in many places, particularly in Gipuzkoa, from where I am a Member, which has also affected the employability of many young people who may have been conditioned by the requirement for a driving licence to enter the labour market. I do not want to end without warning of another issue that also draws our attention. What is the cost of the anticipated budget allocation to be incorporated into Chapter 1 when, as the accompanying memorandum says, the selected staff are incorporated? Nothing says the call. Despite this cluster of inconsistencies, we will vote in favour, because it is time to put an end to these interim situations. That is why we are going to be able to say that the budgetary effort now being made should have been distributed among all institutional levels, not only in the General Administration of the State, but also for local and autonomous administrations. In failing to do so, the Government is accrediting a lack of commitment and sensitivity to the municipalities and an insurmountable contradiction with the fact that they are prevented from exceeding the replacement rate to improve their services, making the exception only serve to improve the services that depend exclusively on it. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Although extremely critical, we will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Republican Left Group of Catalonia, I have the floor, Mrs Jordà i Roura.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u91	Thank you, President. Very good evening to all of you. Minister. Mr Montoro's great headlines come back: public employment and the fight against tax fraud; that is, after ten years of constant decline in the number of public employees, after ten years of destruction of the welfare state, after ten years of cuts and precariousness of the civil service. Today he announces the most ambitious public employment call of recent years, and he does so, Minister, nothing more and nothing less than to strengthen - he tells us - the fight against tax fraud. Allow me to ask you, Mr. Montoro, so that you understand: Is it that, after amnestying the great defrauders while chasing the fraud of the 'robagallins', the Constitutional Court has made you think so? I'm asking. The truth is that I do not think so; I am one of those who fear that you, the defrauders' party, or your sacrosanct Constitutional Court will change them. This is what I'm afraid of. I'll tell you why. We continue with the headlines, this time with the offer of public employment for the General Administration of the State for this year and 2018, an offer that amounts to more than 20,000 places. It is quite possible that the call for 8000 places of free entry is - that is true - of the most ambitious in recent years, but, however ambitious it is, it means - and that must be said - a loss of almost 800 jobs, because this call does not cover - and it has been said here this afternoon - one hundred percent of the replenishments. Speaking of silver, these flaming headlines that Mr Montoro once again gives us will not compensate by far for the loss of staff that occurred during the years of the cuts. I'll say more. For years, its extremely restrictive way of applying replacement rates has done a number of things, but one of them and very important is to endanger the provision of public services as well as the functioning of internal and, of course, structural services. In view of this scenario, it can be said that the fight against tax fraud will not be strengthened, let alone taking into account that from 2010 until almost four days ago almost 3000 troops were lost in the Tax Agency, which had absolutely opposite and adverse effects on the fight against fraud. The truth is that now, in this public offer, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot count the 688 posts to which we will ascend through the internal promotion - as the Minister told us today - of officials currently in office. Only 2150 new staff will be added to the posts of the Tax Agency, and this will hardly increase the number of staff, since it is estimated that between this year and the following year some 2000 employees will be laid off, because, of course, people also have the right to retire, to apply for leave or other things. I'm finishing up. In Germany, for example, you have a public employee for 740 taxpayers; Spain - which should not need me today, this afternoon, to remind all of you that it is among the countries of Europe with the largest volume of submerged economy - has a tax agency cash for almost 2000 taxpayers. Here's what's there. In conclusion, I will make only one point, Minister. In the meantime - as I said at the beginning of my speech - it seems that it is not enough for you to precarise the Civil Service of the General Administration of the State, but rather to address - Mr Bel has also commented - to the Generalitat of Catalonia so that in Catalonia we can stop without further delay the hiring of 500 mossos d'esquadra, a contract budgeted for this same year. Through a request, he told us to limit it to only 50 seats, i.e. only 10% of the offer. I suppose, since the Mossos d'Esquadra should not pursue tax fraud, even though in Catalonia we are on a level 4 terrorist alert, we do not in any way deserve to have a police force that guarantees the safety of its citizens. This, Minister, is also what we have. Mr Montoro, the Independenceists, also today, we are going to vote for this royal decree in favour of you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u93	Mr President, Mr Montoro, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Aristotle said politics is the art of what is possible. So I started the previous debate on all budgets and so I start today, because this is a derivative of the agreement with Citizens, a derivative whose compliance we thank you very much. [[Rumors]] The core of this extraordinary offer of public employment...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u94	Wait a minute, Mr. De la Torre. [[Pause]] Thank you very much for your silence. Go on, Mr. De la Torre.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u95	The core of this offer of public employment is the increase of means in the Tax Agency. After, first, the Socialist Party and, later, you cut back on the fight against fraud since 2010, we agreed - and it was one of the conditions for which we voted on the budgets - to increase the resources in the fight against fraud by EUR 100 million. But this money has to be used effectively afterwards, and when this was done, we find ourselves in the budgets with which this was not possible, because in the Tax Agency, where 71% of the money is spent on staff, this money could not be used and more public employees were needed. This decree-law comes to fill this need, and we especially thank you for bringing it because it is the third 180-degree turn in fiscal policy in a very short time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when you came to the government in 2012 your fiscal policy was based on three main axes: firstly, the indiscriminate and massive rise in taxes to all those who were doing it; secondly, those who were not doing it, to those who were doing it, were reduced their taxes and had fiscal amnesty, and this ended with the cutting of the means in the fight against fraud. In the face of this situation, they have had to rectify. In the first case, in the case of the tax amnesty, because the Constitutional Court stated that it was clearly unconstitutional. Some of us warned from the very day it was published that it was going to be a failure. This has been denounced repeatedly by Citizens from this rostrum and has tried to make up for it. It must be acknowledged here that they have been much less effective and have had much less willingness to comply with the investiture agreement, so they have had to rectify it. Secondly, they have had to rectify the issue of tax increases. A few days ago you promised us to lower the IRPF by EUR 2 billion to lower incomes and family groups in more compromised situations. You say it's something you've done voluntarily. I don't know, but I was a negotiator and the truth is that it was hard for me to get this issue forward; in fact, that's what everyone thought. Here I have brought a headline, who says: Montoro answers a non-rotundo to the citizens' demand to lower taxes in 2018. [[Shows a press clipping]] [[Applauds]] Obviously, this was done because they had no choice but to do so, and it was another 180-degree turn in their policy. Thirdly - which is what brings us here - you end the cuts in resources in the fight against tax fraud and, finally, after the cuts suffered since 2010, the Tax Agency will regain some operational capacity. This is something we've been claiming for a very long time. As you know perfectly well - and some people here have quoted data - for every 5 euros that Germany spends on combating fraud, we spend only 1 euro. If France has more than 100 000 public employees dedicated to the Tax Administration, Germany more than 70 000 and in Spain we have 24 500, and decreasing, it is not possible to get the same results and in the end we have more tax fraud and more submerged economy. In this sense, in the years in which the People's Party has been at the head of public finances, this employee cut in the Tax Agency has continued. When you joined the government there were about 28 000 and now there are just over 25 000, and this has been repeatedly denounced by the Finance Inspectors, by the technicians and by all the tax agency collectives, who have said that they were at the limit of their operational capacity. That is why we tabled Amendment No 842, in the Senate, so that the budget agreement could materialise and these resources could effectively be invested in improving the operational capacity of the Tax Agency. In Roman paladin, so that there would be more officials in the fight against fraud and not less. You bring here today a decree-law that we have negotiated and that we consider to be a change in the right direction, because it not only increases the number of places, but also establishes - this is our contribution and perhaps why it has not commented on - that the Tax Agency will equip itself with new human resources instruments to improve its operational capacity, which comes to recognize that these instruments have become obsolete and that the employees of the Tax Agency, the officials fighting fraud deserve more human resources to deal with a situation that is in some cases critical. On the other hand, this royal decree-law is very positive because it affects another fundamental issue, which is the control of public expenditure. One of the basic measures in the fight against fraud is to control every euro of public money so that it is used properly. In this sense, we had also foreseen in the investment agreement - you are taking it into effect and it is a good idea - the systematic control, the audit of public expenditure, the spending review that has been entrusted to the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority. This is a good step that is complemented by the new positions of state intervenors and auditors and audit technicians. Again, it is about ending the cuts in the fight against fraud, cuts that have also been made in the fight against corruption and which, of course, we do not share. That is why we are now very satisfied with this 180-degree turn. Something similar can be said of the increase in places in Social Security or the Labour Inspectorate. We believe that these measures, complemented by those aimed at the critical situations that exist right now in the National Police, in relation to the issuance of the national identity document, and in the traffic examiners - who, according to union sources, may not solve the problem but do help to alleviate it - are correct measures and go in the right direction. Therefore, we will support the validation of this decree-law for many reasons, the least important of them - as I told you in your day in your appearance at the Finance Committee - that this is part of our idea - so we logically agree - that it was to implement and enforce the investment agreement in the fight against fraud and greater and better control of public expenditure. In addition to this origin, it is clear that the People's Party government, partly thanks to us - although perhaps not the only reason - begins to go in the right direction: instead of rewarding the defrauders and punishing those who do, we are giving more means in the fight against tax fraud, and those who do, we can already start to lower taxes. We think it's good news. It is good news that taxes are lowered and, specifically, with regard to this decree-law, that reinforcements for law enforcement are also coming. For all these reasons, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the validation of this decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs. Honorato Chulián.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u97	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We have heard a predictable grandiose speech from the late minister, Mr Montoro. We are not surprised, but we will remind you of what we already reminded you of when we were here in the budget debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is precisely the People's Party government that has wrecked public employment in this country, and now they are disguised as coastguards and throwing lifeboats. Obviously, lifeboats are necessary, but they are lifeboats, and we know that what is behind it is the shipwreck caused by the governments of the People's Party; we do not forget, but we believe that there are also thousands and thousands of opponents in this country or the employees and public employees, and that is why we are also obliged to remember it here. It is true that this lifeboat presented to us today has surprised me gratefully on two issues that I found very interesting. The first is that this royal decree-law - some of the previous speakers have commented - has shown that it could be, that it could be removed the sacrosanct limit of the replacement rate. Many of us - trade union organizations, collectives of opponents or public administrations - have been remembering for years that it is necessary to rethink this limit of the replacement rate, and this royal decree-law has done so, precisely by the hand of the People's Party, and nothing has happened, the world has not fallen, the heavens have not been opened or the earth has swallowed us. In other words, one can rethink the limit of the replacement rate. I also feel obliged to make a reminder, to point out that there is a hint of hypocrisy in this which presents us, because less than a month ago, just two weeks ago, a general state budget was adopted in which the central state obliges the public administrations of this country - all the public administrations - to respect the troop replacement rate, and only a few days later, two weeks later, we find ourselves with this royal decree in which the state administration is exempt from this compliance with the limit of the replenishment rate. This, ladies and gentlemen, does not seem serious to us; it does not seem serious to us to do so only by the State Administration. We believe that the time has come to rethink the replacement rate for all the public administrations of this country, not only for the State Administration - not only for me, but for all my companions, as we might say -, and especially for some of the more suffering administrations, the local administrations, which have been especially expressed since 2013 by various actions of their ministry. It seems to us that it is time to rethink replacement rates, especially for local governments. Since it has been the People's Party that has removed that taboo from the limit of the replacement rate, we must continue to move in that direction, so that all public administrations, and not just one - in this case, the central administration - have the same rules. Another issue that has drawn my attention is that they recognize that there are areas of the General Administration of the State in which urgent intervention was needed. We too made this clear in the amendments we tabled in the Budgets Act; in fact, one of the amendments was an extraordinary special offer, with a period of three years, in which we pointed out almost exactly these same areas of intervention, because we understood that there was a need for direct, immediate and urgent intervention. At that time we were called demagogues, but it doesn't matter; we are happy to be coinciding in this urgent need. However, by specifically entering the text and going down to the numbers proposed to us, a starting analysis must be made. We are talking about that from 2008 to the present more than 40,000 public jobs have been destroyed in the General Administration of the State, that is, we are talking about more than 6000 per budget year, and what is presented as real job creation - apart from the replacement of rates of 2017 and 2018 - are 2026 posts, which are reflected in the actual decree-law itself. Going down concretely, in the Tax Agency we have lost almost 4000 people since 2010, and although there is now a large offer, discounting, as the partner of Esquerra commented, the offers of 2017 and 2018, job creation is scarce. It is a creation that could more or less face the 200 places; obviously, if we compare them to the 4000 we have lost in this time, it is not to be medals in the prevention and the fight against fraud. With regard to labour administration and social security, since 2009 we have lost 4249 employees in the field of social security administration. Several times we have looked at the need for strong action in Social Security in order to reverse the current situation of disability; moreover, in 2019 a decrease of 1500 people is expected, which we believe is necessary a much more intense offer than the current one. In the DNI, 150 posts. Look, Your Honor, I believe that 150 posts for the situation of absolute collapse that exists in the management of DNI in Spain is a rather deficient offer. Prisons. What about the new centers that are going to open? There are two of imminent openness and prisons is not in the extraordinary offer of creating places; it is in the ordinary but not in the extraordinary. Road safety. Here we believe that the conflict is closed in false; the current conflict is closed in false for examiners and examiners and for road safety itself. We are talking about a reduction of almost half of the staff and only 70 places are proposed in the offer. In other words, much further progress must be made in order to reverse the situation of cuts in recent years. And I cannot end without referring to the eternal forgotten, which is the recovery of the economic rights of the public employees of this country. Over the course of this afternoon, there has been talk of the extraordinary economic situation in this country or at least of the great improvement of recent years, when will the turn of public employees be taken? When are the lost economic rights going to be restored or when are we going to stop losing?, because systematically in each exercise we lose. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. It seems to us that the 2018 budgets could be the budgets of the beginning of the economic recovery of the public employees of this country and, why not, since you have put it on the table, could be the budgets with which it will end the replacement rate that has done so much damage to this country. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs Honorato. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Serrano Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u99	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to point out that the urgency to which the Government refers when it argues that this offer of public employment through a royal decree-law is to be approved stems from the cuts in public expenditure made by the Government itself. That is the origin of this decree-law, and those are the cuts that the Government itself has made by robbing citizens' rights, encircling public services and slimming down staffing by setting replacement rates that have been gradually reducing the number of staff available to the Administration to provide adequate care to those in need of its services. The downsizing has come to virtually all areas, as we have been warning from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and has given rise to truly emergency and disaster situations in the maintenance of public services, and not only of the public services to which this decree-law reaches, but also of many others, such as those related to the autonomous and local administrations, to which you, Minister, Mr Montoro, have permanently punished. He has a long experience in this House, he has been here since 1993, but he has not been mayor or councillor and that is evident; that is because you have allowed the local administration to be deprived of its powers, to deny the local administration the possibility of providing the services that have to be provided. You and your party have tried, but you haven't made it. He has put too many sticks in the local administration and now it's time to give him carrots, those that you so much like to distribute now. It could extend this offer of public employment to the local government and could also convene the local government's public employment table provided for in the agreement with the unions. Of course, the mayors would appreciate it, but also the citizens. We warned you last May, when we adopted and validated the decree-law approving the offer of public employment in essential and priority public services, that it was not enough that offer in these areas, that many others were forgotten and that human resources were lacking, a lack that was alarming in many public services. Let us tell you again now, Mr Montoro: the government of which you are a member has so much diminished public services that the offer made by this royal decree is insufficient and does not solve the real problem of public administrations to provide services to citizens. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u100	Wait a minute, Mrs. Serrano. I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u101	For example, in the administration of justice, where human and material means are lacking, the service has been degraded, which is of utmost importance to people. But I continue with more examples, ladies and gentlemen. In the DNI issuing offices, in the public employment services, in the Labour Inspectorate, in the Social Security, among the examiners of the Directorate-General for Traffic, in the Tax Agency, the reduction in the number of public employees that has occurred in recent years has resulted in an alarming staffing deficit, which has not been recognized and which has not been addressed so far. And now they come back in the hurry of their royal decrees to put patches on what we already knew. The Socialist Group demands that the Government develop a genuine human resources policy in public services based on rigour and seriousness and not on pressure and improvisation. This offer of public employment means beginning to slightly recover the public employment destroyed by the savage austerity policies of the People's Party Government of his Government. They destroyed more than 300,000 jobs. Its policies have sought to sink public services, only saved by the effort and work of the thousands of public employees, whose work has been decisive in maintaining the welfare state. Ladies and gentlemen, in the parliamentary procedure for approving the budgets, we have already warned that the proposed public employment figure was not enough. We tabled amendments to increase the replacement rate to 150% in sectors of special social sensitivity because they are related to essential public services and to the fight against corruption and fraud, and the People's Group did not accept any. The Government now amends itself and publishes, again by decree-law, a figure that they love, the new offer of employment - I quote part of what the explanatory statement says - to meet extraordinary needs in the sectors of combating tax and labour fraud and the need to improve the care provided in certain essential public services. The Socialist Group's amendments sought that, Minister. How can the Government consider these needs to be now extraordinary and priority and not before? What were you thinking? Where were you at that time? I'll tell him. They were too busy dismantling the welfare state by eliminating jobs for public employees and cutting off rights from those who still kept their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the evolution of public employees has gone down in recent years. We had the maximum in the fourth quarter of 2010: 3,250,000 public employees, since far from the last quarter of 2017: 2,974,000 public employees. You, Mr Montoro, are guilty, responsible for this data and now assume that the advertised public employment offer has been the largest since 2008. I can't help but try to recover now in a hurry what they've previously destroyed... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u102	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u103	Mr Montoro, I remind you that you have the lowest public employment offer in your country: 2922 places in 2012. That's your record and your merit, so don't presume now. I do not want to end without thanking the trade unions for their efforts. Without your treasure today you wouldn't be here on this subject. Learn and continue to dialogue and listen to the unions, planning. Forget the rushes, the decrees-laws, that figure. Pay attention to this House, do your job well and so you will not suffer more riots like those given to you by the Constitutional Court with the tax amnesty. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not naive. We are not unaware that this extraordinary offer of public employment probably has much to do with the need that you, Minister, need to improve your image, but you will not get it. As much as you think that with this you will improve your image and your reproof, you will not get it, because you are only repairing some of the damage you have caused to public services. The Socialist Group urges the Government to take the necessary steps to recover the quality of the most essential public services severely hit by their cuts. That's why we're going to support this royal decree-law.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u104	You've got to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u105	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. We will support it, but of course we do not share the form or its forgetfulness of many sectors, of the Autonomous Administration and of the Local Administration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs Serrano. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs López Ares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 11 May, exactly two months ago, this House endorsed the Royal Decree-Law approving the public offer of employment in the fields of teaching staff, the Armed Forces, the State Security Forces and the police forces dependent on the Autonomous Communities, which allowed for the convening of 20 000 places in all administrations, corresponding to the General Administration of the State 7969 places. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we are missing calls for teaching places in many autonomous communities in which you govern. [[Applauds]] It was then said that it was a partial solution, since what was really important was that the State General Budgets Act should be adopted by relying on it for the rest of the public offer of employment. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget the strong commitment made by the budgets for 2017 to the offer of public employment. Commitment because, first of all, the priority sectors for which the replacement rate is 100 % were expanded. Commitment because, secondly, the agreement was incorporated with all administrations and social partners to carry out an extraordinary process of stabilization of temporary employment affecting the sectors of teaching, health, justice, social services, local police, tax management and collection, inspection and sanctioning of services and activities. Once the General Budgets of the State for 2017 have been published, the Government of the People's Party, in an effective manner, fulfilling its commitments and through dialogue and negotiation at the General Bureau of Negotiation of the General Administration of the State, signed on July 6th an agreement for the public offer of employment in the General Administration of the State for 2017. In this way, to the 7969 places approved two months ago, 15,998 new creation and internal promotion linked to the General Budgets of the State for 2017 were added last Friday. In addition to the ordinary offer, the previous Council of Ministers also approved this Royal Decree-Law which is brought today for validation and which pursues two objectives: first, to improve the functioning of essential services, such as the issuing offices of the DNI and passport and, secondly, to continue to improve active and passive employment policies and the ordinary management of taxes, as well as in the fight against tax and labour fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, when the People's Party came to the government in December 2011 tax collection had sunk; 60 billion had fallen in two years and, Socialist Party gentlemen - I do not see Mr Saura here now - you did nothing, absolutely nothing, to recover that collection. They did not make any effective decisions to recover tax revenues. Citizens, I don't know where you were then, I don't know where Mr De la Torre was, but I can tell you that one of your economic gurus the only advice he gave us was to ask the European Union for a rescue. It is true and it is published; if you don't believe me, review La Nueva España, a newspaper in Asturias where he made those statements. The same thing happened in our labour market. As long as 3.5 million jobs were destroyed and 1200 Spaniards a day lost their jobs, you Socialist Party gentlemen did nothing, absolutely nothing, to reverse the situation. Faced with its inability, the People's Party, when it arrived at the Government, launched a comprehensive package of short- and medium-term measures to move away from the abyss that posed the threat of intervention by the European Union and to develop structural reforms of our economy that would return us to economic growth, job creation and the recovery of the tax revenues needed to maintain the welfare state. These policies have designed measures to combat fraud effectively; I repeat: to fight fraud effectively. First, against tax fraud, actions were launched that yielded results: more than 65 billion since 2012. The trend in the increase in tax revenues generated by the fight against fraud has been increasing, reaching 14,883 million euros in 2016. Measures were also taken against labour fraud. From 2012 to 2017 more than one million inspections have been carried out that have allowed 424,000 jobs to emerge, 6005 fictitious companies have been detected whose sole objective was to defraud Social Security and have become 260 000 contracts unduly concluded as temporary in indefinite, with the total savings generated for Social Security by this anti-fraud plan of EUR 18 billion. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of other groups, there are no lessons for the People's Party and our Government in the fight against tax fraud. [[Applauds]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is what has been done since 2012, but, as both the Minister of Employment and the Minister of Finance have already announced, the Government will continue in this legislature in its fight against fraud with new measures, within which is that which incorporates this royal decree-law and which involves strengthening the Tax Agency, the Public Service of State Employment, Social Security, the Labour Inspectorate and the General Intervention of the State Administration through an extraordinary public offer of employment of 3627 places. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by showing the real commitment of the People's Party Government to quality public services and the conviction that this quality is due to the role we public sector workers play. Evidence of this conviction is the public employment offer of the General Administration of the State for 2017, which continues with the path already started especially since 2015 and that, if we consider the Royal Decree-Law 6/2017, the royal decree approved in the past Council of Ministers and this Royal Decree-Law 13/2017 that is brought here for validation, represents a total offer of 28,249 places, the largest offer of public employment since 2008. Madam spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as the numbers do not understand them, I bring you the graphics, public offer of the Socialist Party since 2008 and public offer of the People's Party since 2012 ; as the data do not understand them, here you have the graphics. [[Show a chart]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]] This is the commitment. We know that for socialists and communists it will never be enough, but we fully understand that they have to be compatible with budgetary stability and financial sustainability, because public employment and public services - I always say - are not compatible with public administrations or with broken public finances such as those left us, the socialists. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs. López Ares. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 11/2017, OF 23 JUNE, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES IN FINANCIAL MATTER. [[File number 130/000017]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u109	Point, we turn to item 4 of the agenda, which is the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 11/2017 of 23 June of urgent financial measures. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to appear in the House today to request your support for the validation of the royal decree-law of urgent financial measures which the Council of Ministers adopted on 23 June. This rule regulates a number of urgent measures of importance to the financial sector as a whole, as they are designed to strengthen their solvency. Specifically, the Royal Decree-Law has two objectives. The first is to reform the legal regime of credit unions in order to improve their resilience to the risks that may arise in the exercise of their activities. In addition, a number of measures are being taken to facilitate their formation and enhance their effective functioning. The second objective is to create a new category of liabilities, non-preferential ordinary claims, which will facilitate compliance with the minimum loss absorbing requirements established by the new financial regulation. I now go on to detail the content of the royal decree-law. I'll start with the credit unions. There are slightly more than sixty credit institutions and account for approximately 6% of total bank balances. But, ladies and gentlemen, they are of great importance in rural areas, where they enjoy high market shares. Cooperatives play a very important role in financing small-scale economic operators in particularly agricultural sectors, but also industrial and other professionals. However, cooperatives also play an important role in the territory; their activity facilitates access to basic financial services in areas of low population density, low presence of banking offices and low penetration of new technologies. In recent years, they have managed to cope with the financial crisis, thanks in particular to a simple business model and a medium- and long-term approach. However, like the rest of the medium and small entities in all the countries in our environment, they are currently under great market pressure and face various challenges. Ladies and gentlemen, in a low-interest environment, bank profitability is reduced; and this, together with the declining but still high number of unproductive assets, could, under certain conditions, pose a risk to these entities. It is therefore urgent to take measures to contribute to their strengthening and to improve their resilience in the face of possible difficulties, so that cooperatives can solve their problems without the need for public authorities to intervene and without reaching irreversible situations. In particular, we are working in three areas. Firstly, there is an express recognition of the possibility of cooperatives constituting systems or institutional mechanisms of protection, already provided for in European legislation, which may be of two types. On the one hand, reinforced systems, in which cooperatives share 100% of their benefits and risks, and which have a head office that directs virtually all the group's decisions. And, on the other hand, regulatory systems that do not have to be fully pooled and that are characterized by the establishment of a private guarantee fund; this fund is financed ex ante by the member entities of the group and is used to meet potential needs that cannot be met with other resources. Secondly, we set out incentives to set up these mechanisms. For example, cooperatives that join such a group will have a lower risk profile, resulting in a lower requirement for eligible own funds and liabilities for loss absorption. In addition, entry into an institutional protection system with a private guarantee fund will also reduce contributions to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Thirdly, this royal decree-law establishes instruments to make these mechanisms more effective. In particular, the operations carried out by a cooperative with those of other entities belonging to the same system will not be subject to limitation; that is, these cooperatives may have greater exposures to each other. On the other hand, it eliminates the investment ceiling that the Private Guarantee Fund can make in one of the participating entities, and all this in order to facilitate the availability of these resources in case of need of recapitalisation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u111	One moment, Minister, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Thank you very much. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u112	Thank you, President. However, where the fund takes holdings above the limits provided for, the Banco de España shall approve a plan of actions with concrete measures to disinvest in the cooperative under appropriate conditions for all members of the mechanism or system. At this point, allow me to justify the urgent and urgent need to deal with this regulatory change through the Decree-Law. The Government announced months ago its intention to adopt a bill that comprehensively updates the regulations of cooperatives. The aim of this bill, which the Government will present in the coming months, is to improve the economic governance of cooperatives, strengthen their capital instruments to underpin their solvency and create a private fund that gives them room for manoeuvre to resolve their problems early. However, given the current financial situation of low interest rates and limited profitability, which I have mentioned earlier, we have considered it appropriate to deal with some of these measures by means of a real decree-law to give it more speed. That is why the Government has chosen to regulate this private fund as a matter of urgency and as a matter of priority, so that credit unions have at their disposal from now on all possible instruments to act in case of need. The rest of the elements I have commented on will be dealt with through a bill. I now go on to detail the content of the second part of the Decree-Law, which involves the creation of a new category of liabilities that financial institutions can issue, the so-called non-preferential ordinary credits. As you know, international, European and national financial regulations on bank resolution require credit institutions and investment services companies to have a mattress of liabilities that can absorb losses in the event of resolution. It is what is known as the minimum requirement for eligible own funds and liabilities, the MREL by its acronym in English. This requirement is part of the banking union, in particular the Single Resolution Mechanism. Its aim is both to ensure that the resolution of credit institutions is done in the best possible conditions and to ensure the maximum protection of public resources. To meet these requirements, the instruments with which the Spanish entities count are two: capital and subordinated debt. To these categories is now added the non-preferential senior debt, which will be essential in order to be able to meet the requirements of MREL. This new debt will absorb losses after the subordinated debt, but before the other ordinary credits, where unsecured deposits or derivatives are framed. While the status of contractual subordination already existed, this rule raises non-preferential ordinary claims to a legal category. This will make it easier for institutions to issue such liabilities by increasing legal certainty and reducing the costs of their issuance. However, the new instruments must comply with certain requirements: they must be issued with an effective maturity of one year or more, they must not have the characteristics of derivative financial instruments and must include a clause establishing that they have a competitive priority lower than the other ordinary credits. The Royal Decree-Law also includes an amendment to the Securities Market Act to establish that such non-preferential ordinary credits are complex financial instruments. The aim is to protect private savers, as products that are considered complex carry added obligations in marketing between retailers. Ladies and gentlemen, other countries in our environment, such as France or Germany, have already adopted national legislation so that their banks can start using this type of emissions. It is therefore urgent that we, too, regulate it to allow it to be issued at reasonable costs, so that Spanish banking institutions are made easier to meet the requirements of eligible liabilities. This is particularly relevant in view of the fact that institutions that fail to meet the minimum eligible liabilities will be engaged in reducing their balance sheet, which will necessarily lead to a reduction in the credit granted with the consequent negative effects on economic activity and employment. That is precisely the need to adopt this measure by means of urgency, using the figure of the royal decree-law, which today I submit to its validation. I'm done. Our financial sector enjoys good health and is the cause and effect of the country's vigorous economic recovery. However, that is no obstacle for us to remain attentive to their needs and to move forward with the necessary reforms to ensure their solvency within the framework of the banking union. Finally, I would like to express my appreciation of the contributions made to this royal decree-law by different parliamentary groups that have enabled us to improve the effectiveness of the rule and to reach a broad consensus. It is important that this royal decree-law be validated as such, as opening the door to possible modifications would introduce delays and important doses of uncertainty, which is precisely what we are trying to clear up. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I request your support for the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u113	Thank you very much, Minister. He has requested the use of the turn against the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. I give the floor to the representative of that group, Mr Montero Soler.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every time you present us here with a real decree of urgent measures, I do not know why, but we are all beginning to shake our wrists, because normally some reform that goes against the general interest is always hidden. This is, in the case of credit unions, which is what I am going to focus on, one of them, first because the royal decree is full of half-truths and fallacious arguments to try to justify the reform. The first is a medium truth related to the resilience that these credit institutions have had, which are the ones that have best resisted the crisis. [[The lady]] And it is not because its model is simple and its approach in the medium and long term, as appears in the explanatory statement, but above all because its risk analysis has been exhaustive and supported, essentially, in the knowledge of both the borrower and the activity that the borrower is going to develop with the funds. Exactly the opposite has happened with traditional banking, and you know it well. So this model of credit unions has become a model of success for financial intermediation in certain, now threatened, contexts of financial exclusion. Secondly, it refers to a number of risks around low interest rates, the weight of doubtful assets or lateness and increased legal costs which affect only, very tangentially, the credit institutions concerned, credit cooperatives. In fact, the only one of those elements that can affect you is the issue of legal costs that are particularly significant for small and medium-sized entities and not for large ones, which have mechanisms such as internal models - which you know well - that allow them to minimize the impact of legal regulations. But the relevant thing is where the background of the measure lies. In your own explanatory statement you let the possibility of selling these entities more easily slide smoothly. I will say this in Rajoy's terminology so that you understand me better: facilitating the possibility of selling them is the equivalent of facilitating the possibility of buying them; making them more opposable so that they are more easily available in certain contexts by other entities. To do that, they have resorted to an instrument that has an opportune history in our country, which are SIPs or cold mergers. So we find that they seem to have forgotten what happened with BFA, with BMN, with Caja3, with Abanca, with Liberbank, with Catalunya Caixa, with Unnim, with Civic Banking or with Bankia. That, which was produced among other things by cold fusions, seems to have now become a success story that must be replicated; a success story so painful that it seems that the only thing they want to replicate is the result to which they came. First they merged; then they broke down and then they were acquired by systemic banks at almost ridiculous prices, at best. Given what has just happened to the People's Bank, you will understand that we have certain resistance to accept such proposals. Furthermore, Minister, why is it urgent? What weaknesses are there in the most consolidated sector of the Spanish financial system to deal with this urgently? Would it not be better to adapt the rules to the sector than to try to make the sector adapt to a regulation that is excessively rigorous for it? Need and urgency are not understood. In any case, what they have done is, on the one hand, to amend the law on credit unions to allow the operations carried out by a cooperative with the other members of the MIP in this case - of the SIP previously - not to compute for the purposes of 50%. From there, the various cooperatives can commit operations of the asset above 50% on land where they were not operating traditionally and, not only that, but they create a private guarantee fund which essentially allows them to take equity shares in other cooperatives without consuming their own resources. This basically makes it easier for them to grow practically artificially and thereby facilitate an excessive concentration of risk. This is an incentive for these institutions and entities - and I am finishing - to be more easily acquired, as I told them, by larger banking entities, so that they can be more easily operated. As I was telling you, given the recent history of the cold meltdowns of savings boxes and the balls that have been given in this country at the request of them when they were bought at ridiculous prices, this royal decree-law only opens the way for history to repeat itself. So no, Minister; we refuse to be accomplices to the disappearance of a sector that is healthy, we refuse to be accomplices to the disappearance of a sector that has resisted the crisis well, which covers the needs of financial agents and territories that have been left aside by the traditional bank and which you now intend to burn to blow, so that you have our vote against. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u115	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, why now, when the hardest of the financial crisis is supposed to have been overcome, do they pass a real decree-law that pushes credit unions into mergers, when they are the entities that have best resisted the crisis? Why do they incorporate in the royal decree measures and criteria of European directives that have not yet been adopted? Discussions in the European Parliament and subsequent tripartite negotiations may change some of the elements included in Article 3.3 of this Royal Decree-Law. Why do they pass it with a royal decree-law and not by ordinary procedure? Your explanations have not convinced us at all and the situation of our financial system may not be as good as you sometimes say. In short, we are once again faced with the abuse of the royal decrees. Before applying to cooperatives the measures that were applied to banks and banks would have to be asked if it was necessary and what the real objective was. Why medicate someone who's healthy? Just because someone else got sick? When in this case, even, we could be directly infecting you with the disease. The reason why credit unions have had a great deal of resistance during the crisis is that they did not enter the race because of the increase in scale, did not get involved in the placement of excess capital in world markets, and adhered to their role of operating within a specific geographical and economic framework, in addition to their democratic governance - one vote per member - which is an added value that these entities have. Almost a decade after the 2008 banking crisis, one continues with the idea that one bank is the bigger, better, and that the solution to the banking crisis is to merge some credit institutions with others, but what is bad for the bank in general is even more absurd for credit unions. The size of cooperatives is what requires the productive ecosystem in which they are immersed. We have a serious problem of bank concentration in our financial system: five large banks control 72% of the market share. That is a serious economic problem - the risk of reducing competition that can cost and hinder access to credit - but it is also a democratic problem - concentration of power in very few hands, the same ones that control large media and large companies. We believe that another bank is possible, the cooperative or the public bank, and you have no interest in developing either. With regard to the creation of a new category of liabilities that can be issued by all credit institutions, we wish to express our doubts. These measures give us mistrust because they can generate more financial concentration. There is a contradiction between stating that financial institutions are at a difficult time due to their low profitability and, on the other hand, requiring them to issue passive products that involve increasing financing costs and entail higher costs for smaller entities that have the greatest difficulty in finding buyers for these issues. Would it not be better, instead of new demands difficult to meet, to avoid bankruptcy with better control and supervision? There is a threat that, if this type of product is not approved, the credit will be contracted. Well, I wish he had contracted in the period of the real estate bubble! The important thing is not to contract credit, but to what credit is intended; the important thing is to control the types of financial products in order to avoid abuse and bad practices; the important thing is to ensure that credit is intended for productive and not speculative activities. The general content of what they propose is basically a general rule of depositors' protection that clarifies the hierarchy of this new category of non-preferential ordinary credits so that, in the event of a resolution, citizens are prevented from having to pay the bailout of a bank. But there are relevant elements that are not and that we miss. It should be ensured that these non-preferential ordinary products do not end up being sold to retailers in banking offices. It is a complex high-risk product that can have a zero value in case a bank is resolved. Seeing the bank's trajectory and its bad practices by placing this type of product, it is necessary to have legal guarantees that savers will not be placed massively. There are different options for that. They can only be offered to those who meet the professional profile set out in the Mifid Directive or set a minimum amount of capital. It is also necessary to go further into the definition of point 2(b), which are neither derivatives nor have implicit derivatives. Practice in the European Union is not unified in this regard. We believe that the definition of derivatives should be sufficiently clear and clear to ensure that they have a high loss absorbing capacity if necessary and that under no circumstances these derivatives may be in hierarchical order lower than other savings products. A more general consideration: we are faced with many uncertainties. The failure of the supervisory mechanisms is evident in the case of the People's Bank, which repeatedly overcame the stress tests and had to be liquidated badly in the face of the incompetence or negligence of regulators and supervisors. The credibility of the banking union has been questioned. In the case of Italy, it has been allowed to fail to comply with European standards, it has been rescued with public money. In this context, its Royal Decree-Law does not provide any insurance against such risks. It does not guarantee shareholders or depositaries greater degrees of transparency or fair valuation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u117	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u118	I'm done, President. ... in the event of possible bank consolidation interests at their expense, either by the Government or by the authorities of the European Union or by the large banks. We therefore ask you, Minister, to establish guarantees that this will not happen again. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, has the floor on the position-setting table.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u120	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group will support this initiative. However, we want to make some reflections and contributions that we will also materialize when the corresponding bill is passed, which we believe is essential. Indeed, the credit cooperatives sector is an important sector, although someone might think that since it accounts for only 6% of the credit system in Spain it is not. It is important in Spain and we believe that it must continue to be so, as it is in the European context. It is true - it has been said and we agree - that this sector has certainly borne much better the financial crisis of recent years than the rest of the financial sector. Here governance will have had some effect, it will have been responsible for this best support. Financial approaches in the medium and long term will surely have been much better studied. These reforms are urgent and we understand that if they are so, it will be because it is necessary to do so, although the situation of this sector or of these sixty entities throughout the Spanish State has been relatively calm so far. But I also want to send a message of trust. I understand all positions and all are reasonable, but surely the co-operatives themselves, the shareholders themselves and all depositors in these financial institutions will have to be more calm when the royal decree is passed than before it is passed. However, Minister - our group has already asked for this on some occasions - we know that the Government is trying to deal with the bill to reform this regulation, which I remind you that it is practically thirty years old, although it has been amended over time and will also have to be adapted in the areas of governance. If a feature has credit unions, what is done is that each of the partners, of the participants, decides that each one has a vote. Therefore, in mergers, enlargements, etc., it also has the same characteristic. Therefore, Minister, we will support the royal decree. However, we understand - we always say it in the same line - that the mechanisms of the royal decree-law should not be abused. If I remember correctly - and I do not -, only during this year they have already processed thirteen. You will tell me that because the House allows it, and it is true, because the House allows it, but we always bring in a royal decree-law we will ask that it also be treated as a bill. It is good that there is an intention to present it, but in relation to these articles we believe that they would also be improved in some areas. That would not harm or create uncertainty from our point of view and we will therefore ask and vote in favour of the processing as a bill also of this royal decree-law. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u122	Thank you. Good afternoon. Our group is going to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law because we understand that it comes to strengthen credit unions and complete the reform of the financial system, which was a sector that remained to be restructured, despite the fact that it has borne much better the financial crisis. It establishes regulations that facilitate the solvency of these entities by establishing protection mechanisms that minimize the financial impact in the event of possible rescue and that deal with the problem collectively. In addition, this Royal Decree-Law regulates a non-preferential ordinary credit, a new debt instrument to facilitate compliance with the minimum requirement of eligible own funds and liabilities on the part of entities requiring European regulation, seeks to harmonize the hierarchy of creditors who have to assume losses in the event of bank solvency problems and increases the bank's protection in order to recapitalise, allowing, on the one hand, to meet the capital requirements and, on the other hand, to obtain financing for, among other things, the execution of their main activity, which is the granting of credits. In addition, we understand that it will reduce the impact on the public sector of possible banking crises. For all this, we, as I have said, are going to validate this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u123	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u124	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, good afternoon. Credit unions are one of the most important players in the European banking union. Founded almost two centuries ago, cooperative credit institutions have been able to meet the financial needs of specific segments of the population that otherwise could not have been met: families, small and medium-sized enterprises, especially farmers, but not only artisans, traders, local entrepreneurs, liberal professionals, as is the case in Catalonia de la Caixa d'Enginyers, de Arquitectos or de Guissona. Not in vain, in Europe they represent 7 billion euros of assets and about 20% of the market share. There are about 4000 cooperative banks in Europe with 210 million customers, and growing; see if we have any way to go. The main value of these entities is proximity, being committed to supporting the local communities to which they belong and providing an anchor in the markets for SMEs in productive sectors, even at times when there was no way that credit could reach SMEs. Credit unions have demonstrated a stabilizing role in Europe and have been driving local growth and the productive economy, apart from the speculative economy... [[The secretary, Sánchez-Camacho Pérez, enters the Chamber. He's got a splint on his leg. It is greeted by several honourable Members.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u126	I'm glad to see you, too. And let him get better. [[Risa.-Applause.- The Madam Secretary, Sánchez-Camacho Pérez, occupies her seat on the table assisted by Mr. Capdevila i Esteve.-Applause]] The territorial map of credit unions speaks of attention tailored to the needs of clients, while increasing resistance to the economic problems of the territory, especially in rural areas. Financial diversification reduces the likelihood of systemic risk of a failure as a whole due to greater reliance on large banks, which you have always advocated. We already know how failures in the financial system have an impact on the real economy, often at the expense of taxpayers' money. At the moment, 60 billion in the sink, which will be difficult to recover. Credit cooperatives are, therefore, a sort of last gala village that resists the pressure of large financial groups together with ethical banking, and they get it from the confidence in the high quality services they offer, based precisely on their proximity, on the knowledge of the business, not on the size - in this case the size does not matter -. Because, as reflected in the Banco de España's report on the financial crisis, the sector of credit unions did not give rise to problems during the crisis and was able to guarantee a minimum of 5% of Spanish credit, which is currently proportional to its ability to act. Let me say, Minister, that from the Left-wing Parliamentary Group we are expressing our fears about this. I won't repeat my argument. Basically, if credit unions go well, what is the urgency? Apart from this, I want to express to you two 'okay' and one 'but'. We understand that there is a need to bring international standards closer together. Moreover, the creation of these institutional protection mechanisms means that credit unions get a lower risk profile by increasing their solvency, and that's fine, okay. We also see fit the 'risk-mutualization' - if it can be put in quotation marks I suppose it would be more expressive - similar to that given in the banking system, which will revolve around a private deposit guarantee fund made up of the capital contributed by the entities with which possible insolvency will be covered. All right - and this is the 'but' - but we are afraid that with the laudable aim of credit unions and rural boxes you want to merge, because the important thing, I repeat, is not the size, but that each cooperative serves the interests of its members and customers with knowledge and solidity. And, forgive me if I say so, we will not trust much when you suggest that mergers will not cost the taxpayer any money because experience tells us that the massive merger of credit institutions was not a solution to the problem of banks and banks; on the contrary, in the end an oligopolistic scenario has been created in the financial system in which it was the customers, the small investors and, finally, the public system and competitiveness that ended up losing. And because the final supervision of the Banco de España does not seem to us today - still hot the corpse of the Banco Popular - a guarantee of credibility and trust; on the contrary, we fear that their desire for concentration does not play in favor of cooperative credit institutions. Welcome, then, to the People's Party to the world of the cooperative economy but do not want you, please, to transform them into an instrument of your liberal policies. We will be attentive to your temptation to transform the financial sector into an oligopoly like those with which you usually feel comfortable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u127	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am already telling you that my parliamentary group, Citizens, will vote in favour of the validation of this Royal Decree 11/2017, of urgent financial measures, despite its late regulation, as Brussels had been waiting for it since autumn 2012. It was one of the commitments Spain made to the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund for the rescue of much of our financial institutions. Well, Law 13/1989 on Credit Cooperatives regulates the smallest part of our financial sector. You have commented that, however, these credit unions are of great importance in rural environments, financing SMEs, self-employed and entrepreneurs, and it is also necessary to equip them with the appropriate tools to address the hard-learned lessons and to bring the legal framework into line with European and international standards. For this reason, there are different reasons to validate this royal decree, despite the opinion of Mr Montero and Mr Vendrell, who may be much more interested in public banking and its politicisation. Sad mistake, I think. I will tell you four main reasons why we will support this royal decree. First, by strengthening these safeguards mechanisms, by voluntarily incorporating the institutional protection systems, the so-called SIPs, and a new article 10 bis, with two modalities, creating synergies to growth and expanding its social role in the rural world. It is important because economies on a scale improve competitiveness, Mr Capdevila. This time, size does matter. Secondly, for the greater guarantees to customers, as well as an imposition on the Banco de España, which before 30 September must develop methods to provide this Deposit Guarantee Fund; that is, that in the face of insolvency they do not end up paying all Spaniards this crisis. Thirdly, to meet international and European standards, avoiding a rescue to the Cypriot, with losses for the customers, and the error of the preferents, protecting the investor without financial knowledge. And finally, this positive regulation, pending perhaps a new Law on Credit Cooperatives updating Law 13/1989, would allow us to move away from the looting of savings banks. Minister, at that time you were saying - textual words -: I would like to specify it very clearly. There is no cost for Spanish taxpayers here. Even the Vice-President of the Government, who is not here today, said in a press conference that it would not cost a euro. Nothing further from the reality and is that the Banco de España, in conjunction with the report of the Court of Auditors... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u129	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u130	... says in his report last June that we have lost more than EUR 60 billion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, the Socialist Group and even the United Left, who are now with Podemos, the politicisation of the financial system and the looting of savings banks is also a form of corruption. [[Applauds]] The savings boxes were controlled by the old parties and the unions, who were - we all know it - in their administrative bodies. Mr Rodríguez Zapatero first denied the economic crisis and later ignored the problems they had. We remembered that phrase that said: The Spanish financial system is the strongest in the world. And then he merged them without healing or depoliticizing. Spain lost two precious years to cushion the impact of our financial crisis. The end you already know: Mr Rajoy ended up asking for credit from the European Union. By the way, it may be random, but the credit unions weren't politicized or needed that bank bailout. However, the boxes were the ones that needed the most resources to be rescued. By the way, their presidents were all linked to political parties. If you want, remember: Catalunya Banc, Narcís Serra, former minister of the PSOE; Bankia, Mr. Rodrigo Rato, of the People's Party; CAM, Novacaixagalia, the Bank of Valencia - my dear Bank of Valencia - with Don José Luis Olivas, former president of the Valencian Community, of the People's Party. Sad, isn't it? In addition, the savings banks starred in numerous scandals. We have the scam of the preferents, the black cards, the bankia stock market, the abusive ground clauses and all this with the approval of the regulatory agencies, the Banco de España and the National Securities Market Commission. By the way, aren't they the ones who should take care of these things? Aren't they the ones who should protect our carrots? [[Applauds]] To date, no party has assumed any political responsibility for this harmful management. Today, thanks to Citizens, we have an agreement with the People's Party to ensure the independence of the regulatory bodies, to create an independent consumer protection authority and financial investor and, of course, a commission of inquiry into the banking crisis in which, although five years later, those responsible for looting these more than EUR 60 billion will finally explain to the Spanish in the parliamentary seat. I'm finishing up, Madam President. Today we will vote in favour of the validation of the Royal Decree Law 11/2017, of urgent financial measures, but without forgetting that 8 out of 10 euros that have been invested will be lost in this bank bailout. It is just the opposite of when we invest a euro in the fight against fraud, because we recover 10. I ask you, why haven't you done this so far? Why have they now brought a royal decree of extraordinary increase in the supply of public employment? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm telling you. Because today in this House he is Citizens. [[Applauds]] I don't know if PSOE or We can be seen or not, I don't know what they'll do or what decisions they'll make, but Citizens make useful politics. Citizens have given stability and promoted reforms, reducing taxes, improving the conditions of the self-employed, the middle class and the working class, forcing them to invest in the fight against fraud, denouncing amnesty and, of course, giving greater security and flexibility to the financial system with the validation of this royal decree. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that the politicization of the financial system and the looting of savings banks are also forms of corruption. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u131	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Botella Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u132	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today in Spain, after the crisis of savings banks - unfortunately, after the loss of savings banks - credit unions are like a crown jewel. They are the last reduction of a bank driven by social interests and linked to local economic activity. As has already been mentioned here, there are countries such as France, the Netherlands, Italy and Germany that maintain an important presence of social banking, public banking and cooperative banking; a presence that sometimes exceeds 40% or 50% of the national financial system, which seems to us truly extraordinary because in our country it has already become an exception. That is why we in the Socialist Group believe that we must continue to support credit unions. We believe that we must improve and stimulate the structures that allow this bank - which, as I say, is social and proximity banking - to be given the elements that allow it to be profitable in a world of financial turbulence and, as the minister himself has said in his presentation, in a financial system that is still very unstable. I therefore support the Socialist Group's vote to validate this real decree of urgent financial measures because we believe that the measures included will contribute to strengthening social banking, which is more necessary than ever to fulfil this very purpose and to neutralize the worrying tendency towards the concentration of the financial system in our country, which is rather worrying. The Socialist Group values financial stability and social cohesion, which are protected by this new regulation through institutional protection systems. [[Rumors]] I am not going to entertain myself already in this last turn of word to enter into all the details of the perfectly described mechanisms...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u133	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u134	... by the minister in the first instance and then by some of my fellow Members who have already entered the matter. Yes, I would like to highlight the meeting and meeting points for us. We are going to vote in favour because we understand that they are going to give strength and they are going to strengthen this proximity bank and this social bank, to which the Socialist Party wants to help to keep them in Spain and not to pass as has happened with the savings banks. We believe that this is essential, because some data has been given but it has not been said that it was affecting 2.8 million cooperative partners in Spain or that, for example, it has more than 18 000 jobs of employees working there. [[Rumors]] But this is a part, now I would like to denounce that, from the point of view of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the reply of Minister De Guindos to these truly urgent events, which are the theoretical reasons to bring him under this formula...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u135	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u136	... this seemingly urgent formula is actually a sign of improvisation, Minister, and evidence that President Rajoy's government is always behind the problems that have already been presented in this sector - eye, have recently been presented - but they were already presented in 2014 and the regulations for this type of entity were not prepared. Nor has the minister been particularly diligent in the second point addressed in this royal decree when a new category of liabilities is created, which are these ordinary non-preferential claims or this subordinated senior debt, because this comes from a pre-advance directive, but it already comes from the end of 2016. You say so yourself, and also in the technical report accompanying the Royal Decree-Law, there it is being specified that most of the countries in our environment have already taken those measures, and that is what is really worrying us, that gap between the moment when the decision is made to do so and how long we are taking to do so in Spain. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, of course we must adopt these measures, and we must do so urgently, but not because something extraordinary has happened, we must do so now because it has not been done before, and when I say it before I am not referring to two months ago, six months ago or a year ago, I am referring to the last parliamentary term. We have said that some of the Members we have spoken about, this measure, this royal decree-law cannot replace the bill that should have been formulated already to strengthen if what you really want - we do want to - is to strengthen these financial institutions. That is why it is unacceptable and irritating for us to say in the document accompanying the report of the Council of Ministers that this concludes the cycle of financial reforms. Don't sell us this, we don't buy this. We do not agree, we believe that much remains to be done - you yourself have acknowledged it -; we must continue to work on the issue of governance in these types of entities and on the issue of strengthening capital and solvency mechanisms. I'm closing up. Ladies and gentlemen, we see no reason to feel calm and of course the Government must still give many explanations after what has happened in the People's Party and the events that are still taking place, recent events that, Minister, from Europe, are saying that they are contradicting what you are saying here that nothing has happened and that this is going to be perfectly resolved with the European mechanisms, they are saying that it is not so clear who is going to have to solve, something that given the nature of the People's Party neither surprises us. We will be responsible for supporting the validation of this royal decree because, in the light of the risks faced by the financial system, we do not believe that the sector of credit co-operativeism or all the economic activity that depends on it, neither the jobs nor the co-operative partners are to blame for the lack of diligence of the present Government in resolving this issue. The draft law for credit unions is still pending and, from the Socialist Group, we will be very careful. Mr Minister, loud and clear, we think that we have a minister of the economy who is here because he has not achieved anything better outside; that sometimes we do not know whether he is leaving or staying. We do not say that the reforms of the financial system are easy; what we do say is that in the last five years you have not succeeded. So you have work ahead, and I assure you that from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will be very careful to guarantee - as I say - this small treasure which means for proximity banking, for social banking and for those we believe in financial inclusion; Spain still has many possibilities, we will not give up and we will not get the bull, as we got caught with this terrible crisis, in which we really did not have a resource, which was very traditional in our country and which other European countries maintain, which were the savings banks, so we will remain attentive, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u137	Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u138	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The adoption of a royal decree must be accompanied by two requirements, the extraordinary and the urgent necessity, and both are in competition with this royal decree. First, it contributes to the regulatory changes made to implement the introduction of institutional protection systems into the credit union regime; and it also contributes to the amendment of the 14th additional provision of Law 11/2015, on recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment services companies. The sooner these measures are adopted, the sooner they will be available to the entities, and hence their extraordinary and urgent need. As far as credit unions are concerned, the minister has already detailed the changes introduced by the Royal Decree and I will therefore focus on the needs of these measures. We must take into account the risks faced by the financial system and its impact on recent experiences. The Banco de España, in its recent financial stability report, informs us that risks that affect the sector persist, arising from the low-interest environment, the declining but still high number of unproductive assets, both doubtful and awarded, and the increase in legal costs. It is therefore urgent and necessary to provide these entities with instruments to facilitate their resolution or liquidation because of the consequences it could have on competition, financial inclusion and local economic activity. The need arises because credit unions have greater difficulties in coping with these challenges by raising resources in the market, given their small size and the characteristics of the model that introduces restrictions on certain operations, and all this because of the importance that cooperatives have in rural environments, their high market shares at the provincial level and their strong local roots, which determine their relevance for the financing of smaller economic actors in the agricultural, industrial and professional sector, such as SMEs, self-employed or entrepreneurs who, in addition, sometimes present greater difficulties in obtaining financing... [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u139	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u140	...and more now with the new financial regulation. These characteristics make him not understand the position against the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. When they organized a forum on public banking in which I participated, they defended these same things to keep Bankia as public banking, to avoid financial exclusion, to keep entities in territories where the big ones do not access and to finance small productive sectors. Why do they not now support credit unions that cover these needs? Why? [[Applauds]] The truth is that your speech and your goals are always dark for me. Mr Montero spoke of the greatest ease to sell them and buy them, but this greater ease in the end is to avoid putting public money, to avoid a public ransom. These are the objectives of the resolution mechanisms and this is what has not happened in Italy and what we do not want to happen here in Spain. I was also commenting that if it's healed, why is it going to disappear? The other way around. If they're healed, they're trying to protect these entities. [[Applauds]] Nor do I understand the obsession with the issue of banking concentration presented by some groups. As we are in a post-truth era, some concepts are taken for granted and we do not stop to analyze them. I want to remind all of you that France, with twice as much banking business as Spain... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u141	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, there is little time left, but please remain silent. The speaker was not heard from the Chair, I can assure you. Go on, Mr. Paniagua.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u142	I would like to remind all of you that France, with twice as much banking business as Spain, has only three national financial institutions, and there is absolute competition. We - I remind you - had more than fifty entities when the financial crisis came, of which at least twenty were at national level. Was there competition? Yeah. Was there efficiency? No, we know not, since most of these entities have disappeared. [[Applauds]] We must think things over well before we make categorical assessments like the ones that are made. We have a Committee of Inquiry, let us take advantage of it and draw positive conclusions for the operation of the sector, but I have serious doubts that it will be used for this purpose by some groups and not only to obtain a handful of votes. As the Minister has already announced, a law will be introduced to reform the legal regime of credit unions, a law that will aim to strengthen the solvency and transparency of these entities. As regards the introduction of the distinction between ordinary preferential and non-preferential claims, credit institutions and investment service undertakings, as the Minister has said, are obliged by European and national legislation to incorporate a high number of liabilities in their balance sheets that favour the absorption of losses in the event of the institution's resolution. This is already an obligation. If institutions fail to do so, they would significantly limit their ability to provide financing on the market and thus adversely affect economic activity and employment. It is urgent, the market is very small. Other countries have already begun the placement of titles. We must therefore provide the necessary legal framework for its development as soon as possible, as our entities are at a disadvantage. Therefore, this Government continues on the path it began when it arrived at the end of 2011 with two objectives: to strengthen financial institutions and to protect consumers in the sector. We have an obligation to strengthen financial institutions. They collect the savings of families and businesses and direct them towards productive investment through bank financing. They also facilitate the day-to-day management of companies, public and private institutions through accounts, domiciles, means of payment, international transactions, guarantees and guarantees. This in turn favours economic activity, helps in capital markets to distribute emissions and is a continuous movement, including the national treasury. It is therefore a basic sector of the national economy, as has been demonstrated, for example, in the exit from this crisis. Until the financial institutions were fully effective, our economy was not able to push and put the recession behind us, and something so basic is necessary to explain it here in the light of the messages we hear every day from some political groups. I was also talking about protecting consumers in the sector, because they are our savers, our consumers, our entrepreneurs, our self-employed, our businesses and our investors, all those people who help and enable us to develop our economy, who allow jobs to be created and who in the end directly and indirectly provide the resources necessary to maintain the infrastructure of our State and our social welfare system. We have done so since we arrived at the government, from the code of good practice to the actual decree of the ground clause, a process that still has some stages: the new law of mortgage credit, the adoption of MiFID II and PS II and the reform of the regulatory bodies, all to culminate an architecture that, complying with the European regulations, allows a stability of our financial system and a capacity to collect the savings of the Spaniards and finance the economic activity, all from transparency and good management. These are the principles that inspire our action, and I think that here there should not be many discrepancies between all groups, except those of the populist caste, to which the general interest seems to matter to them zero. [[All right.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin in three minutes. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote first on the Government's agreement to set the budgetary stability and public debt targets for the general government as a whole and for each of its subsectors, for the period 2018-2020. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 349 votes in favour, 175 against, 173 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u145	It was adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u146	We then proceed to vote on the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, we will vote on Royal Decree-Law 12/2017 of 3 July, amending the consolidated text of the Intellectual Property Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/1996 of 12 April, as regards the system of fair compensation for private copying. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 270 against, 60 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u147	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we will proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 349 votes in favour 89 against 260.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u148	Consequently, it will not be treated as a bill. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 13/2017, OF 7 JULY, APPROVING AN OFFER OF EXTRAORDINARY AND ADDITIONAL PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT FOR THE STRENGTHENING OF THE FIGHT AGAINST TAX FRAUD, SOCIAL SECURITY, LABOUR AND GAS CONTROL AREA, FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF DETERMINED SERVICES TO CITIZENS, AND BELIEVE SPECIALITIES IN BODIES AND SCHOOLS OF THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE STATE AND ITS PUBLIC ORGANISMS. [[File number 130/000019]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u149	We now proceed to vote on Royal Decree-Law 13/2017 of 7 July, approving an extraordinary and additional offer of public employment for the strengthening of the fight against tax fraud, in social security, in the field of labour and expenditure control, for the improvement of the provision of certain services to citizens, and creating specialities in bodies and scales of the State Administration and its public agencies. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 349 votes in favour, 347 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u150	The royal decree-law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 349 votes in favour, 90 against, 259.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u151	Consequently, it will not be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 11/2017, OF 23 JUNE, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES IN FINANCIAL MATTER. [[File number 130/000017]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u152	We now vote on Royal Decree-Law 11/2017 of 23 June on urgent financial measures. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 349 votes in favour, 266 against, 71 abstentions, 12.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u153	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we will proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 349 votes in favour, 91 against, 258.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-07-11-CD170711.u154	Consequently, the Royal Decree-Law will not be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and thirty minutes of the night. Error correction. In the Journal of Sessions núm. 65, corresponding to the plenary session held on Tuesday, June 27, 2017, on page 4, where it says 'The session is opened at four o'clock in the afternoon' should read 'The session is opened at three o'clock in the afternoon'.
