ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Hernando Vera, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, I will reiterate to you a question that we asked you in the Senate, because there are millions of pensioners who are worried that this year's pensions are going to lose purchasing power. It is your decision, but, to be clear, your group, together with Citizens, has vetoed in the House Bureau a proposal for a law of five groups of Congress that echoed the union request to revalue 1.2% of pensions. That is why I ask you, Mr Rajoy, if you do not think it would be logical for the system to guarantee the purchasing power of pensions. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Hernando, as you know, the increase in pensions is made by applying the law that is currently in force, which states that to determine the amount of pensions, account will be taken of the evolution of the CPI and also the income and expenses of the system, but in no case will there be an increase of less than 0.25 %, which is very reasonable. If income rises, pensions will rise more, and if income falls, pensions will rise less. In any case, always 0,25 %. We are therefore implementing the law currently in force, which seems to be the reasonableness and, of course, the obligation of the Government. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u6	That is the problem, Mr Rajoy, the law, which they did unilaterally. During the 10th Legislature, in which you had an absolute majority, you made a series of reforms in social and labour matters, all restrictive of rights, without dialogue and without agreement, neither in Congress nor in society, with trade unions and employers. They were unilateral reforms that you pulled out with your absolute majority; now you do not have them and you try to veto the changes in the Congress of Deputies. One of those reforms concerned the pension update system; they established a broader formula than a very complex seat, which makes Spain the only country in Europe that does not update pensions in relation to prices, Mr Rajoy. You may like it, you may be delighted with its formula, but we find it unfair. So far nothing had happened because the CPI was negative, but that is no longer the case; the consumer price index in January has risen by 3% and pensions, as you said, are going to do by 0.25%, then pensioners are going to lose at least 2% of purchasing power this year. When things go wrong it is logical that we all tighten our belts and take exceptional measures, but when the economy starts to go well - and you assume it - the logic and the rule would have to be that pensions are updated with prices, because it is the only way that pensioners have to maintain their standard of living; moreover, their law allows it. Listen to me, this is important. If you want to get along with the Socialists in the area of pensions, prices have to be the essential measure for revaluing them, because, if not, you are betting on a society in which the economy can go well, but the pensioners will go badly, and that for us and for society is unbearable, but above all it is insolidary. The point is that you no longer have a majority to keep it and we are not willing to consent in silence. That's why we're going to try to change it in the Toledo Pact, Mr. Rajoy. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u7	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Hernando, I would like you to explain in this House what you mean by purchasing power, because when I came to the government by the end of 2011 you had made a decision; the decision was frozen pensions, i.e. you were up 0% and the CPI was up 3.2%. [[Applauds]] Is that for you to maintain the purchasing power of pensions? Look, there was a law that said: pensions will increase purchasing power. But you never did, because it was very difficult to do. That's why we amended the law, and we said: purchasing power yes, but in addition to purchasing power we will have to take into account the revenues of the system, because, frankly, after having lost 70 billion euros of revenues between 2007 and 2009 it was impossible to maintain public spending as it was in Spain. What have we done now? Well, something that's pretty reasonable. In 2014, 2015 and 2016, when our new law came into force, pensions gained purchasing power; they rose by 0.25, but the CPI dropped by 0.2 in the first year, in 2014; in 2015 it fell by 0.5 and fell by 0.2 again in 2016. It is likely that this year - of course, the inflation forecast is so - is above 0.25, but it is clear that on some occasions they will rise and on others they will not. In any case, I invite you to something that I certainly believe is fundamental to the future of pensions and that is that you are able to build on the Toledo Pact Commission. In 2007, EUR 442 billion was raised in Spain; ten years later, we still raised EUR 20 billion less and, at this time, pensions rose by EUR 40 billion. Therefore, the key is that we will be able to create a system that lasts many years and that we will be able to agree among all; that, and that we will also be able to continue to create employment in our country, because in January 2017 there was the best collection of social security quotas in the whole history of January... [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u9	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF MANUAL Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM, CAN WE COMMAND IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WITH HOW MANY CASES IS ALREADY CORRUPTION IS ALREADY IS ALREADY ISLANDED? [[File number 180/000129]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u10	Question, also addressed to the President of the Government, by Mr Pablo Manuel Iglesias Turrión, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, how many isolated cases does corruption stop being isolated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u12	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Churches, frankly, it depends on how you want to see it. I believe that in the face of any political problem we must make a fair assessment of its dimensions. The problem should not be minimized, nor magnified. I, of course, do not minimize it; I know that there have been many cases in Spain in recent years, but neither should it be magnified. It should also be noted that in Spain and in politics there are thousands of people who do their job very well, who are here by vocation, and, of course, I do not think that they deserve to live under suspicion. Therefore, let us not minimize, that we must not do so, nor magnify the problem. What is at stake is to deal with it and make decisions so that this does not happen again in the future. And we have. We have passed many legal reforms and we are ready to approve all those that you want and are reasonable. A few days ago, we approved an over pardons here in Congress. The judges are functioning, the courts of justice, the prosecutor's office, the State Tax Agency, the State Security Forces and Bodies, and I am absolutely convinced that if we persevere in that way of acting that we have carried out in recent times this will soon cease to be an anecdote and you will have to ask me about things different from this one that you are interested in today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u14	Mr. Churches, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u15	Thank you, Madam President. I wouldn't want to magnify, Mr. President, and I'd love to ask you about something else. Barcenas, Gürtel, Aquamed, Imelsa, Punica, Cooperation, Fabra, Brugal, Palma Arena, Emarsa, Taula... We might not magnify, but I would exhaust my two minutes simply by naming cases of corruption. So I have to choose one, but I am not going to choose one, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, neither of the last years nor of the last months; I have to choose between those of the last week, among all those after your national congress. I could ask you about the indictment of the President of Murcia for alleged crimes of prevarication, embezzlement, fraud and falsehood in public documents. I could ask you about the former Mayor of Cartagena and current Senator of the People's Party, Pilar Barreiro, who is attributed to fraud, misappropriation of public revenues, coed, continued prevarication and disclosure of confidential information. I could ask you about the entry into prison of the thirteen convicted by the piece Fatur in the Valencian Community. I could ask you about the vest of your former president of La Rioja, today vice president of the Senate, Mr. Pedro Sanz. But, as I have little time left because in the meantime there is no need to magnify this isolated case, I will ask you about your friend José Manuel Soria. Yes, that of the accounts and companies in tax havens, which he had to resign so that he would not be further investigated. He is not his vice president, but you ask him about the foreign business of his friend José Manuel Soria, who used a corrupt judge and a prosecutor to attack our deputy Victoria Rosell. [[Rumors]] We now know that his friend José Manuel Soria lied in this Chamber and to the Spaniards saying that his little hotel in Punta Cana paid him with his money. For today, because of a judge's ruling, we know that only the massages were paid; and only the massages were paid because it was billed by another company, and he called criminals to the journalists who investigated him. Who's the delinquent today? Mr. Mariano Rajoy, you say that your government fights corruption. That's not done with words. I propose something to you; you propose to your Minister of Justice to give orders to the prosecutor to investigate Mr. José Manuel Soria's stays in luxury hotels, because perhaps we are dealing with a case of cohecho. I urge you, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, corruption is not fought with words or with the facewashing of your partners, it is fought with facts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u16	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u17	Thank you very much. Well, I am a person of natural optimism, but I think that today I have passed, because I intend to talk to you about measures to be taken to solve the problems, it seems to me that it is complicated. As everyone will have seen, your intervention today has provided absolutely no idea to try to stop this problem from being so. You've come here to what you've come to; you're a party, judge, prosecutor, and you came with the sentence passed. For that, I don't know what you're asking me for. In any case, less evil than you are not Robespierre or this is the Convention, because, if not, we would certainly have a problem. Look, you don't have a weighted opinion, you don't intend to have it; you don't have a solution to this problem, you don't intend to get that solution. I see Spain in a different way than you do. It is a country in which we have our problems and our difficulties, but Spain is a great nation; it is a country in which there are many things that go well, most of them, and the vast majority of those who engage in political activity are people who do our work with dignity. What you have to think about is if you do it too. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA MARIA ORAMAS GONZALEZ-MORO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHEN IS THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDED TO APPROVE IN THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS THE AMENDMENT OF THE ECONOMIC AND TAXAL REGIME OF CANARIES? [[File number 180/000125]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u18	Question also addressed to the President of the Government of Mrs Ana María Oramas González-Moro of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, when does the Government intend to adopt the new economic and fiscal regime in the Council of Ministers in the Canary Islands?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. The commitment of the Government of Spain to the Canary Islands is unquestionable, it has been and remains so in recent years. As you know, we have modified the Economic and Fiscal System in its fiscal aspects, with the aim of introducing specific tax incentives that are contributing to the employment creation and economic development of the Archipelago. From there, we are indeed negotiating the economic regime to which you have referred. There are many issues in that regime relating to financing, transport, services, tourism, commercial promotion, telecommunications, energy, cooperation between public administrations, employment, education, training, in short, there are many issues we are dealing with, many negotiations involving different ministries and I would like to do so quickly, but I am not in a position to say at this time, because it is not up to me alone when the negotiations are to be concluded. What I can tell you is that it is our will to reach an understanding and it is our will, just as we have approved the fiscal aspects, to also approve the economic aspects of the special Canary Islands regime. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u22	Thank you very much. Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u23	Thank you. Mr President, as you know, after twenty-three years the modification of our historical background is fundamental, because it is going to involve the creation of more and better employment, the social and territorial cohesion of our land, and for this it is going to be recognized for the first time the status of the outermost region of the Canary Islands and that remoteness and insularity are structural and permanent elements over time. This will also allow for lower fiscal pressure and for REF's revenue to be additional and complementary to the autonomous financing system, and for lobbying and town halls. The internationalization of the Canarian economy as an Atlantic platform will be promoted and policies such as compensation for freight and passenger transport and specific employment policies with Canaries will be consolidated. In the field of tourism, a special training plan and a tourism infrastructure plan. In terms of economy, a differential treatment with respect to regional incentives, with a special opportunity for the non-capitalist islands. For the first time, waste recycling is introduced as an impetus to circular economies and the reduction of water production, and there is a very important issue, as is to base the energy system in the Canary Islands on renewables with policies of remuneration and self-consumption different from those of the national territory. In agriculture, there is a commitment to fund the additional Posei sheet, and in the area of telecommunications, that the Canary Islands have the same access to broadband in price and conditions as the rest of the territory. In short, these policies will structure our territory, narrow the gap with the national territory, allow job creation and give the non-capitalist islands a very important opportunity. You committed yourself to us - with the Canary Coalition and with all the Canary Islands - in the debate on investiture, let us hope that that agreement between the Canary Islands and the State will soon be approved in the Council of Ministers and enter into this Congress of Deputies, because it is our historical forum and it is the law of the Canary Islands. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Oramas, you've explained it very well. That is to say, these are very important decisions - these are what we are talking about - and they are complex decisions in many cases; they are decisions that, when implemented, will undoubtedly mean and will produce very beneficial positive effects for all the citizens of the Canary Islands. But that, as I said before, takes time; there are many ministries that are affected in these negotiations. What I can tell you right now is that just as in your day we approved the fiscal aspects of the Canary Islands Economic and Fiscal System, that in your day we made decisions that I think benefited the Canary Islands, such as the Autonomous Liquidity Fund - it also applied to other autonomous communities - and the Payment Fund to suppliers - today the Canary Islands is paying interest at 0%, as you know - we will also bring to this House as quickly as possible all the economic aspects of the Canary Islands Economic and Fiscal System to which you referred in your intervention, in the belief that this will be positive for the citizens of the Canary Islands and will also benefit the whole of the Spanish people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u26	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Carlota MERCHÁN MESON, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: WHAT RESOURCES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT TO THE COORDINATED EMERGENCY AID PLAN FOR REFUGEES? [[File number 180/000136]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u27	Questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. Question by María Carlota Merchán Mesón, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u28	Minister, I imagine you will have seen the images of the massive demonstration that Barcelona visited last Saturday. There were thousands of people demanding that the Government fulfil its commitments in terms of reception. Many of us feel barcelonas on Saturday. There was a time when this country was recognized for its commitment to building a more just world, multilateralism, development cooperation and humanitarian action. Today, our country's credibility depends on what we do with refugees. You yourself said in this House that the government would comply with the welcome commitments. Mr. Dastis, I don't know which government you're referring to; not yours. A thousand hundred people have arrived in our country in fifteen months. They committed to hosting 17,337 in 24 months. At their pace of reception, they are condemning those who are waiting in Greece today to spend twenty winters in a tent. That is why I ask you, what resources are you going to allocate to the Emergency Assistance Plan for refugees? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u29	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u30	Thank you very much. Your Honor, this government is sensitive to the demands of our citizens for more and better solidarity in the face of the refugee crisis. We largely share those demands and do so not by reaction, but by conviction. I have already had the opportunity in the Senate to refer to the Emergency Assistance Plan, which we approved immediately after the Conference of Presidents last January. A joint strategy for emergency assistance to the refugee crisis has been developed, with contributions from the autonomous communities and municipalities. This strategy, which has just been published, announces that EUR 2.5 million will be invested to deal with this crisis, of which half a million have already been disbursed and the other two will be immediately disbursed. It should be added that since the beginning of the crisis, more than 40 million have been disbursed and spent, responding to humanitarian appeals by United Nations agencies and recognized humanitarian NGOs. That is not enough and we know it, but we will try to continue to respond to the calls that continue to arrive also through the European Union and the United Nations, and we will continue to do so out of conviction. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Merchán.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u32	Minister, you are presenting a plan of aid which the Autonomous Communities are obliged to do, you have not done so because you feel that you should do so. They propose to provide it with EUR 2.5 million, a ridiculous amount, and to do so at the expense of the already small development cooperation funds. Its plan is insufficient because it is not about caring for refugees in the fields of Greece and Italy, it is urgent to comply with the commitments of assistance, reception and care in Spain. He's late and out of place. At the time of the five years of the Syrian war, they intend to undertake a reconnaissance mission. To recognize what, which has been hurting the Spanish for five years, Minister? Don't fool the citizen, your plan isn't a reception plan. The Spanish and the Spanish want to welcome, but you do not allow it; the autonomous communities and the municipalities want to welcome, but they do not let them. It is you who have the key to unlocking the situation. Do it. It's a political decision, the country demands it. Minister, people will continue to flee from war and poverty, they have done so throughout history and there is no fence, wall or sea to prevent it. It is our duty to care for and protect them, it is not charity or solidarity, it is a question of law. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u33	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u34	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I reiterate that we are aware that the needs of refugees are dramatic and we are not insensitive to them. We are trying to respond to them with our partners in the European Union and we are also working intensively with the autonomous communities and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, as well as, of course, coordinating within the Government itself the most concerned departments. However, this Government does not operate on the basis of megaphones and banners that then do not reflect the reality of what each one offers. Nor does this Government seek to obtain political revenues, which it does is to work day by day, devoting its resources and coordinating those that truly offer autonomous communities and municipalities and Spanish society, in an exercise of solidarity to which we are proud. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u35	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GARZON SPINOSA ALBERTO, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS MAY-IN COMMUNITY MAY-IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: IS THE GOVERNMENT READY TO REQUIRE THE RETURN OF NORTHERN-MERICAN TROPATES OF MILITARY BASICS TO ACCEPT TORTURE AND THE OPPORTUNITY TO Launch NUCLEAR WEAPONS, INCLUDING ON THE EUROPEAN GROUND, MANIFESTED BY THE PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP? [[File number 180/000109]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u36	Question by Mr Alberto Garzón Espinosa, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, is the government prepared to demand the withdrawal of US troops, given Donald Trump's statements and policy regarding the legitimacy of torture and the possible use of nuclear weapons on European territory?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u38	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u39	As a general rule, the Government values and makes decisions on the basis of facts and not on statements made in different media. It is a fact that the United States is a democracy and is also a friendly country, an economic partner and a strategic ally with which we have been working for many years to preserve peace and mutual and international security, as well as to defend democracy and human rights. As your honor knows, the relationship with the United States is based on two pillars: one, membership of the Atlantic Alliance, and the other, the revised bilateral defence cooperation agreement and its three amendment protocols. Both pillars are solid and hold a relationship that is good not only for Spain and the United States, but for the Euro-Atlantic and global community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u41	Minister, beyond abstractions and rhetoric, our group is concerned about Donald Trump's policy, a policy based on the migration veto to seven Muslim-majority countries, which does not include Saudi Arabia because right-wing xenophobia reaches the point where economic business begins. It is a policy based on migratory vetoes, but also on mass deportations and there are two elements that directly affect us: the legitimization of torture, which are very clear statements by Donald Trump, and the suggestion to use nuclear weapons on European soil. In our country there are two military bases with American troops, but those military bases since 1970 are Spanish bases. However, you know very well that the Spanish governments do not know exactly what is happening there. They do not know and we have recently discovered with Wikileaks leaks that showed that the American bases in Spain were used as a bridge to take prisoners who were going to be tortured in concentration camps like Guantanamo and that the Spanish government, then of the Socialist Party, simply asked to be informed because they had not even been warned of it. Can we trust a president like Donald Trump, with that absolutely terrifying policy that can use our territory to torture with impunity, to use this territory to launch nuclear attacks, to support a policy that does not respect the principles and values of Spanish society? I believe that this is a problem that the Government has to face. We are calling for respect for human rights, that our territory not be used as a board of play to make absolutely barbaric practices contrary to the principles and values of this society. However, the government, President Mariano Rajoy, did not raise any of this with Donald Trump. He even made a commitment to raise defence spending by up to 2%. If you listen to Brussels for health, education and pensions, and you listen to the United States for defence, you are leading us to a virtually nineteenth-century society of zafi liberalism that does not take into account the social majority. That is not the country we want to be Spain because it does not respond to our values and principles. That is the subaltern government that we do not like for our country and for the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u42	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I have already told you that we base our policy on facts. One fact is the cooperation agreement revised by its protocols and which will be in force until 2021. Article 11 of the Convention provides that the installation, storage or introduction of nuclear weapons into Spanish territory or its components shall be subject to the agreement of the Spanish Government. Therefore, there is no United States nuclear weaponry in Spain and it is not within the scope of this Government's plans to authorize the presence of nuclear, non-conventional weaponry or its components from the United States or any other State in Spain. The agreement, I have already told you, and our participation in NATO serves the protection of international security - therefore, Spanish and European -. So we are not going to give up that convention, nor are we going to give up those bases. If we did, we would give up some goals, which is what the real enemies of democracy and human rights would thank us for. Therefore, you will understand that we will not give you that taste. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u44	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE GALVAN ERRION, IN THE REPRESENTATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE BUSTINDUY AMADOR PAPER, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, FORMING THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT CONCERN THE RELATIONSHIP WITH THE ARGENTIAN REPUBLIC? [[File number 180/000127]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u45	Question by Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, regarding President Macri's visit - which we are going to receive in this House today - I wanted to ask him how the Government is focusing relations with the Argentine Republic and whether those relations will depend on the ideological affinity of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u47	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u48	Your Honor, the Government focuses on relations with the Argentine Republic with optimism and determination to take advantage of the great potential that exists in those relations because Argentina houses the largest Spanish community in the world, which generates an intense flow of sociocultural relations, because it unites us with history, language, culture and even family ties, because Spain is the second most important investor in Argentina and, above all, because we both understand each other and because we owe our citizens, their freedom, their prosperity and full respect for their fundamental rights. In this context, President Macri's State visit these days is a milestone in relations between the two countries. It is the first visit of an Argentine Head of State since 2009 and represents a new impetus to our bilateral relationship with a country of great importance in Latin America. This visit will also be the occasion for the signing of a joint declaration of a Strategic Action Plan that renews the one signed in 2005 by both countries. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u50	Thank you, Minister. I agree with the importance of relations with Argentina. I remember his first statement in this House when he said that the recent political changes in Brazil and Argentina were an opportunity for Spain to strengthen ties. I was worried that you would call political change what was an institutional coup against the democratically elected government in Brazil. And I was worried that it would make relations with the Argentine Government conditional on ideological affinity. In my view, that is the difference between a country's foreign policy and a party's foreign policy. A country's foreign policy is a foreign policy that repositions Spain in Latin America, which is a crucial area in geopolitical terms for us. A foreign party policy is, on the contrary, the one offered to Mr Trump as a boy of errands; it is the one that decides, on the contrary, that Latin America is something that is kept in the drawer and that you only take out in election campaign or when you are left blank in this Parliament and you have to use the wild Venezuela. A foreign party policy is exclusively the policy that makes our ties, for example with the Casa Rosada, depend on the ideological affinity you have with whom you occupy it in each case, and it is clear that Mr Macri is one of yours because Mr Macri, in a year of government, has applied a 'tariff' in gas, water and electricity; Mr Macri already has in a year of government a balance of 200,000 redundancies at the same time as it comes out in the 'Papals of Panama' - it will sound to you, gentlemen of the government -. It is clear that Mr Macri is one of yours. It is clear that Mr Macri is one of his own when he does a policy that basically assumes that when there are the poorest, instead of fighting poverty, we must fight the poor, and that is why Milagro Sala has been imprisoned for a year. It is clear that Mr Macri is one of yours when he relativizes the victims of the dictatorship and puts difficulties in memory. By the way, we would also ask the Government to support the Argentine lawsuit, to help the victims of Francoism to have justice and reparation. [[Rumors]] We are not going to ask you not to get along with Mr Macri and we are going to listen to him with all institutional respect, even if, as I say, it is yours, even if it is not ours. We're going to ask you to have a responsible foreign policy. And to the Argentine people, the majority who suffer from abuse and who suffer from Macri's cuts, let's just say one thing: hold on, don't let go, we're going back [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u51	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, Spain has always wanted to have a state-to-state relationship with Argentina but, as is commonly said, it takes two to dance the tango, and when one does not want, the other cannot dance it. Now, with President Macri, Argentina re-engages in international society, re-engages in international cooperation and accepts and contributes a policy that has nothing to do with populism or has nothing to do with protectionism. [[Applauds]] The proof is that not only Spain, but also the European Union now turns to Argentina and we will try to support Argentina in its struggle to participate in international cooperation and to contribute to the regional integration that has given us so many results in Europe and that it could give them in Latin America if they all put themselves to it. And that's what we trust. Thank you. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u53	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. ISABEL RODRIGUEZ GARCÍA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHY HAS THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE QUESTIOND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF TAXES ANTI-RUPPING IN THE PUNIC CASE? [[File number 180/00134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u54	Question to the Minister for Justice by Mrs Isabel Rodríguez García of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u55	Thank you, President. Minister, Mr Catalá, do you think it reasonable for the minister to take sides and stand on the side of some prosecutors or others? For this is what you did this week when you despised the work of the anti-corruption prosecutors of the Punica case, who worked hard all this time and documented it in more than 58 leaflets. And you sided with the lieutenant prosecutor, who sent the pardon of the president of Murcia in just one paragraph. And it went further, even you suggested threats to these prosecutors. Does this seem reasonable to you, Minister? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u56	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u57	Thank you, President. Your Honor, it does not seem reasonable to me because it is not true what you have said. I have not disregarded the activity of any prosecutor, I have not sided with any prosecutor, especially because it is not what a Minister of Justice should do. I personally, and institutionally, believe firmly in institutions, I believe in the Office of the Attorney General of the State, I know its rules of action, I know how the discrepancies that may exist within the Office of the Prosecutor are solved. It is written, the rules are written and when there are internal discrepancies they are resolved according to rules of hierarchy. That is what happened a few days ago and that is what I have been able to comment on: the normal functioning of the institutions. We therefore believe in the institutions and will do much better for all of us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u59	The truth is that you have the ability to say one thing and the opposite. His words: That the criterion of two prosecutors is not supported by their bosses, I don't know where to put the truth, whether in the prosecutors or in the bosses, I put myself more on the side of their bosses. So, without blushing, you stand on the side of one or the other; this does not fall within your competence as Minister of Justice. And all of this he did for one reason only: to save his partner, the president of Murcia. [[Applauds]] Minister, this is what your statements mean. It is an intolerable interference and contempt for the autonomy of the prosecutor's office, outside its constitutional powers and with an absolute lack of knowledge of the law. This is not what I say, as the prosecutors' associations in our country say, they are intercommissioned with official communiqués. This is unacceptable and can only be understood from a state of nervousness; from the nervousness of which is caught in fraganti, as in fraganti we caught you when looking for and calling the president of Murcia. And even if you don't want to tell us in this House what you called it for, it seems obvious that you wanted to tell him something, doesn't it? We demand that you put an end to this misconception; we ask you to stop interfering with the Administration of Justice and the prosecution; we ask you to remove your hands from the Administration of Justice and the prosecution. The ultimate goal would be that this action would lead to the withdrawal or cessation of prosecutors such as Murcia's chief prosecutor, who has been working against corruption for many years. Pick up the phone, call Pedro Antonio, but tell him to quit. That is what you should be doing as responsible for a People's Party government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u60	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u61	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I remind you again how the prosecution works, but it is not that I tell you this, you know this and you know the Organic Statute of the prosecutor's office, and when there are discrepancies in the prosecution there is a procedure whereby the Supreme Court Chamber prosecutors, who are recognized with a capacity, experience and possibly a higher knowledge, issue their reports, and with those reports plus those of the prosecutors acting, the State Attorney General issues a decree, all transparent, all in writing. It is surprising that you do not deserve any credit for the opinion of up to four Supreme Court Chamber prosecutors and the technical secretariat of the prosecutor's office, and of course you say that the Minister of Justice tells prosecutors what they have to think and prosecutors, as they are all very docile, do as the Minister of Justice tells them. Your Honor, we believe in institutions, we respect institutions; they do not create insecurity where there is none. I am sure that the tax council, which is meeting this morning and which has to propose the appointment of many prosecutors, will propose experienced prosecutors, will renew those who touch, will change those who touch. Ask the former ministers of justice of the Socialist Party or the former state prosecutors appointed by that government how the prosecution works and so you will have a more detailed knowledge of how the institutions work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY ARTEMI RALLO LOMBARTE, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE RECENT CONDENATORY SENTENCE DECIDED AGAINST THE GÜRTEL TREAT? [[File number 180/000135]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u62	Question by Mr Artemi Rallo Lombarte, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u63	Madam President, Minister, precisely in recognition of the defence of the autonomy of the public prosecutor's office led by this government, Mr Torres Dulce resigned them in the face, they did not renew Mrs Madrigal and ended up appointing an obedient, docile and domesticated attorney general, sharpening her credibility in just three months. [[Rumors]] Look, minister, justice is slow but inexorable. Look: thirteen years for Correa, thirteen for Crespo, twelve for 'the mustache', nine for 'the pearl'. The People's Party's conviction mark has just been inaugurated and will be greatly increased: 187 accused in the Gürtel, 37 accused pending conviction, 20 accused in the remaining pieces of the Gürtel Valenciana, 50 accused in Taula, 90 accused in Punica, and growing. Minister, don't liquidate this question with an answer from your usual manual, that whoever makes the pay, that the rule of law works, that we let justice act, that's old-fashioned stuff... The truth is that what citizens ask themselves, Minister, is who will politically pay for the corruption of the People's Party, who will resign in the PP and in the government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u64	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u65	Thank you, President. I recognize, Mr Rallo, that I am very surprised at your intervention, not so much as your status as a Member, and therefore as a politician, but as a professor of constitutional law. If you are surprised that the Minister of Justice tells you that justice works, the institutions work and the law is enforced in Spain, if that answer may surprise you, I am surprised that you have that approach. [[Applauds]] I find it very worrying, very worrying, that you qualify a judge of the Supreme Court, a lawyer with forty years of career, who has been appointed as the Attorney General of the State after appearing in this Chamber, as a docile and domesticated person. I think - really, I'm telling you once again - it's very worrying. [[Applauds]] In addition, we can understand that in this House, in some banks, the presumption of innocence is finished and it is assumed that cases that are being dealt with are already established convictions, but that you too do so seems surprising to me to be doing so. In any case, I am not going to make the list of corruption cases that have affected Socialist Party militants because I don't think this is going to be 'and you more'. Let us try to improve things because I do not think that these kinds of approaches will help anything, Mr Rallo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u66	Mr. Rallo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u67	Unfortunately, minister, you no longer surprise us and, with regard to the Attorney General, the facts are showing what action you are taking. Collaborating with justice, the rule of law, letting the people's parties act is neither pressuring the prosecutors not to charge the high-ranking officials of the People's Party, nor appointing docile prosecutors, nor calling for the nullity of the court cases in which the People's Party is accused, nor breaking the evidence that accuses the People's Party, nor refusing to respond in court to the prosecutors by the silent representatives of the People's Party. Minister, you have decided to self-indulge in corruption by resorting to the passage of time, the Rajoy method, but it is a vain attempt and it is because the Spaniards are wondering, and very loudly, who of the People's Party is going to pay politically for this immense hemorrhage of institutional contempt that has caused the corruption of the People's Party. Because, minister, the most disgusting thing is not to pay congresses or oversold, the most disgusting thing is that you went to the doped, overfunded elections and adulterating election results, and that's why someone has to pay politically. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u68	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u69	Thank you, President. Your Honor, in the 10th Legislature, a package of anti-corruption measures was adopted in this House, which you, by the way, neither supported nor promoted in the previous Legislature. Today in Spain political parties have criminal responsibility, they have a transparent funding system; today in Spain, corruption offences are punished much more intensively by the Penal Code; today convicted persons are not entitled to prison benefits if they do not return up to the last euro of what is stolen; today there is an office for the recovery of the assets of the crime. And all that, Your Honor, was done by the People's Parliamentary Group without your support. [[Applauds]] Therefore, what has been done in Spain, the greatest battery of measures in our forty years of democracy has been done by this Parliament in the 10th Legislature with the votes of the absolute majority of the People's Party. Look at what absolute majorities are worth, to regenerate democratically, to have a democratic and transparent anti-corruption system today. So, that's what we have. I insist, I am not going to make you the list of EREs, of training cases or of so many matters that make the Socialist Party imputed the largest number of people in all cases of corruption. But, I insist, Your Honor, I don't think that's what it's about. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Let us work to improve the situation and make proposals to combat... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT DID THE GOVERNMENT DO TO PROTECT THE PERSONAL DATA OF CATALNAES? [[File number 180/00131]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u71	Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u72	Thank you, President. This question was addressed to the Vice-President of the Government, but she did not want to answer it, and I believe the Minister of Justice is doing so. I have no inconvenience, Minister, although I think it is a matter of territorial administrations. I was asking the Vice-President in that question what the Government has done after hearing the statements of former Senator Vidal, who said: We have your tax data illegally. [[Show a document]] A senator from Esquerra Republicana, Mr Junqueras' party, with whom the Vice-President usually meets, tells us Catalans that they have our tax data illegally, and I wonder what the Vice-President of the Government or you have done, if you have to answer, about it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u73	Thank you very much. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u74	Thank you, President. Mr Rivera, I can assure you that the personal data of Catalans and all Spaniards are protected. In Spain we have a legal system, first of all the Data Protection Act; we have an institutional system, the Spanish Data Protection Agency, and we have a procedural system to ensure that those who fail to comply with these rules have absolute responsibility. Therefore, what the Government does is to empower the Spanish Data Protection Agency and facilitate the action of justice so that we can all be sure that the personal data of the Spaniards and of course the Catalans are adequately protected. If that is not the case and we have some information that generates uncertainty or threat, both in the agency and in the justice sector, work will be done and these uncertainties that may have been generated will be clarified. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u76	Thank you, President. President Rajoy said about the Vidal case: It reassures me that the Generalitat denies it. [[Show a document]] Man, I'm very quiet...! The truth is, what do you want me to say to him? The Generalitat also denies the solidarity between the Spaniards, the Constitution and many other things and I do not stay very calm. That the Generalitat denies what his senator has said for three months for all the acts that Squerra Republicana has done without any reproach, supporting that cause Mr Junqueras, seems very worrying to me. I was asking him what they've done politically. I already know that the prosecution can act of its own accord, as I know there is a data protection agency - it would be missing more - but this is not a spam, we're not talking about someone sending you an email and you report it. We are talking about the Generalitat de Catalunya, which manages the resources of 7.5 million Spaniards, with whom we have learned that Mariano Rajoy himself speaks regularly, and you tell me that you have not told the interlocutor anything, that you have not asked Mr Junqueras what you are doing with the data of the Catalans? I would also like the FLA to give liquidity to the Generalitat de Catalunya, as well as to hold regular meetings with them, that you too should ask for political explanations of what you are doing with our data, with the Catalans, which I believe is of concern to all Spaniards. That is why I was addressing the Vice-President, Minister, because I do not suspect that the prosecution can act on this issue - by the way, you said that you do not give instructions to the prosecution - and that is why it seemed to me more opportune for her to answer. Therefore, Minister, all I want is for the government to be politically involved as well. If you see yourself in Moncloa, in the Generalitat, in secret or in private with the Government of the Generalitat, tell him from many Catalans to stop spying on us. Today a commission of inquiry is opened in the Parliament of Catalonia that has promoted Citizens, together with the Socialist Party and the PP. We want Parliament not only to have to investigate this, the government to get wet and also to defend our fundamental rights and the protection of the privacy of all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u77	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u78	Thank you, President. Mr Rivera, in the Government we believe in the institutions and believe that the Generalitat of Catalonia fulfils its obligations until it is proved otherwise and, therefore, it is not a question of one, who has also been disqualified in all areas, saying so. I'm very concerned about these statements because it's not just anyone, it's a senator, it's a judge; it's not anyone who's said the things he's said. Therefore, I assure you of our utmost concern. Therefore, since the first day the Spanish Data Protection Agency is investigating the issue and complaints have been received that either they are being investigated or they have been transferred to the Catalan Data Protection Authority, which exists in accordance with the Statute of Autonomy, and to which we also have to give a presumption of legitimacy and therefore of adequacy to its activities. [[The Lord]] There are no secret meetings with any Government. They are transparent, open, collaborative meetings, in which if they tell us something to us, it is that we are constantly demanding compliance with the law and that we are very formalistic in our obligations. I do not think that there is any shortfall in the requirement for compliance with obligations towards any autonomous government and, of course, not to that of the Generalitat. Twenty-six complaints have been received, in this particular case from Mr Vidal, and are under investigation. There was a process some time ago in which there are also two institutions that have received sanctions for more than 200,000 euros for having misused data from citizens in Catalonia. I therefore insist that we must have the confidence that the institutions function, that the data ownership rights of citizens are protected in Catalonia and throughout Spain, and that the control systems function on a daily basis. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON JOSÉ MIGUEL CAMACHO SÁNCHEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WILL THE GOVERNMENT IMPLEMENT THE END OF INFORMATION MANIPULATION IN RTVE? [[File number 180/000137]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u80	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service, by Mr José Miguel Camacho Sánchez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, last Thursday the presidents of the Spanish Radiotelevision Information Boards presented before the register of this House 2,225 signatures of Spanish Radiotelevision workers. They did not ask for pay improvements, they did not ask for improvements in their working conditions, they asked for something as simple as it was that all political groups agreed to end the manipulation of information. Does the Government of the People's Party intend to put an end to this manipulation on Spanish Broadcasting? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u82	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of information is an essential freedom in our democracy. Public services develop this freedom of information. The question that you have asked me is a recurring question from the Socialist Group to the Government, a question that I have had to hear in recent years. I will also tell you that as a member of this House that I have exercised the opposition on certain occasions I know that this is a question that has been asked to the Socialist Government at the time, when it was in the exercise of power. I think it is an opportunity for us today to make no sense for these questions to be asked in the House. Your Honor is a member of the Spanish Joint Radio-television Control Commission, which is the body of this House where political will must be raised so that it does not arise, so that it is not even possible to talk about manipulation. The information is provided by professionals. They will do so more or less correctly, but what I can assure you is that the Government does not intervene in the formulation of information either on Spanish Radio Television or anywhere. What we do have to assess is the economic management that Spanish Broadcasting is doing in a few very difficult years of budgetary restraint. Last year he was able to reduce his debt to half his debt in 2015. That is very positive because we all need public service in the cast of what is the provision of information of a free and democratic society such as the Spanish one. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u84	Mr. Camacho.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Montoro, we will already have the opportunity to talk about the economic situation of Spanish Radio-television and the gift of VAT, thanks to which you have been able to square those accounts. We are going to be serious and we are going to be talking about what has happened on Spanish Radio-television since the People's Party came to the government in December 2011. One of the first things it carried out, in April 2012 - it had to be very priority for the future of this country - was to modify precisely the law that was developed to carry on the board of directors of Spanish Radiotelevision. You modified it with a very clear objective, that it was to be able to choose by finger, without the consensus that maintained the previous law, the law adopted in 2006, to the president of Spanish Radiotelevision, by the way, a president who already told us very clearly, precisely in that Spanish Radiotelevision Commission, that he was voting for the People's Party and that he was going to remain so. Everyone is free to vote for whomever he wants, but exposing him in parliamentary office in that way seems a little strong to me. Mr Montoro, this is not an occurrence of the Socialist Party. This has been said day after day by the information boards that regulate the same law. I do not know if you know this report. [[Show a document]] It is the last one that has produced, precisely, the information councils of Spanish Radiotelevision - by the way, information councils that are not received even by the president of this board of directors that you put to your finger -. Seventy-two pages, forty-six references to information manipulation; that is what this document contains, Mr Montoro. In any case, my group is asking yours to be able to reach a consensus among all of us, among all the political groups. I announce that next March my group will bring to the plenary of the House an amendment of the law for the president of the corporation to be elected by consensus of all groups... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u86	You've finished your speech, Mr. Camacho. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. What I must also insist on is the economic argument, because there is no doubt that the problems of Spanish Radio-television have an economic root, but there is also a responsibility of the socialist governments. I believe that, as you say, Mr Camacho, it is time to reach the meeting points and from these common points to be able to develop a fundamental element in our democracy such as public information services. But that has to be done by the professionals, they also have to do it from the security and confidence that millions of citizens are going to that information to collect that information. So...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u88	You've finished your shift, Minister. Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY URQUIZU SANCHO IGNACIO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT COMMITTED TO INJUICATE STUDENTS WITH LESS RESOURCES? [[File number 180/000138]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u89	Question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport by Mr Ignacio Urquizu Sancho of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in recent weeks we have known how many students have lost their scholarships for reasons difficult to explain. But not only that, we've also known how you're remarkably late in paying for university scholarships. Minister, why do you make it so difficult for so many people who already have it so difficult? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u91	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, when I read the statement of your question I thought I was wrong because you say: Why is the government working to harm students with fewer resources? The Government intends exactly the opposite, to favour students with fewer resources because this guarantees equal opportunities and because it realizes a principle that for the Government is very important: that no one in Spain has to stop studying for economic reasons. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u93	Mr. Urquizu.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u94	Look, Minister, I don't think you're understanding what's going on. The scholarship policy summarises very well its policy and government action, which is characterized by two things: poor management and low sensitivity to inequality. Bad management because since you are in power the scholarships have been reduced by 48 million euros for university students; bad management because, moreover, you have done what you have done has been to reduce the average scholarship you receive; bad management because your predecessor in office decided that the scholarships had to be fragmented and paid in two terms, one now and the other in a few months, when the classes started six months ago. I don't think you know the anguish that many students are going through that were connecting to the Internet at the last hour of the night in recent weeks to see if you had made your entry into your bank account. You don't know what you've been through, for example, Virginia. Virginia, who has her disabled father paying a pension of 800 euros and her mother in unemployment without receiving a grant, has been eating lettuce and drinking you for weeks. Do you know what that means? Do you know the anguish you're going through? You don't understand that scholarship applicants don't pay for light receipts and don't go to a supermarket to buy food. I still tell you something else, you're always wrong with them and you're always late with them. Minister, we know what we're talking about. When we had to come to this House and make difficult decisions we do not touch the scholarships, and we do not touch them because it is the fundamental part of social cohesion of any society. Minister, correct as you are being asked by hundreds of thousands of people on many web pages. Establish a scholarship calendar that accommodates the university's academic calendar and, therefore, pay when they deserve it. Correct and return to single payment on scholarships. A society that does not care about giving opportunities to those who need them is a society that does not respect itself. So respect the university students and also respect, by the way, those young researchers to whom contracts have been changed with night and lightness. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u95	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Urquizu, the figure is EUR 1.416.5 million, historical figure, 2016 budget for scholarships. There are 866,563 students who benefit from scholarships, a historical figure as well. Mr Urquizu, we have made a sustainable management of the scholarship system, which is what we had before. [[Mr Urquizu Sancho makes negative gestures]] Yes, sir. The grant system used to carry a deficit that was unbearable and added to the other deficits that caused Spain to have a deficit of 9.3% of GDP. Therefore, a sustainable system. Look, precisely to help all those who need it, we have increased territorial cooperation plans this year and there are 385 million euros for this. That is the policy we believe in, the need to help people. I'm gonna give you two good news. The first, you know that the scholarship management system, especially in two communities that manage them by convention, requires having the data to give the second part of the variable scholarship. Well, we already have them and, therefore, to all those people who are waiting for the second part of the scholarship I can tell you that it is being managed and that they will receive it immediately. Secondly, we have resolved specific issues. [[Rumors]] For example, a few days ago the Andalusian Board warned me that certain vocational training fellows needed, in order to receive the scholarship, to catch up with all the subjects, did not count the validated ones. Well, we've arranged for them to get the full scholarship, then those are ways of fixing specific issues and favoring people. Mr Urquizu, you now have the possibility of favoring people. You know how? Well, you're a relevant person in your group, getting us to approve the next General State Budgets. [[Applauds]] You know why? Because there will be an increase in scholarships in the next General State Budgets. That's one way... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. Your time's up. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA AINA VIDAL SÁEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: IS THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERING THAT THE EYE OF JULILATION MUST BE INCREASED MORE THAN 67 YEARS, AS THE GOVERNMENT OF THE BANK OF SPAIN SUGGESTED? [[File number 180/000126]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u98	Question to the Minister for Employment and Social Security, Mrs Aina Vidal Sáez, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u99	Minister, what do you think of the proposals made by Governor Linde on the Toledo Pact Commission?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u100	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Toledo Pact, the reflections of the social partners, the experts and the institutions of the State are being heard. They speak according to their convictions. That is not the view of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u103	As you well know, our group does not share the late retirement age until sixty-seven and, in fact, we continue to advocate for it to return to sixty-five. We have unemployed young people and grandparents and grandparents working. It seems that you are moving towards pension-work compatibility and public-private complementarity. The keywords here are free and voluntary or rather the privacy of them. You, with your precarious reforms, have launched a direct missile to Social Security. You are responsible for the deficit we have today in Social Security. You're junkies of precariousness, you can't help it. [[The Rumors Continue]] They have destroyed collective bargaining and have caused wages to drop in our country and thereby our lives and, of course, our pensions. Among all killed her and she died alone because her reforms lead us to pensions of misery and, far from revoking and changing the policies that are sinking us, you insist and take the responsibility away from them by passing a slab to our pensioners. If the pension does not reach them, you propose that it be supplemented by private pension schemes; they are already older, since they work until the last day before they die. Minister, tell me how a person will be free to choose if he works for 600 euros a month. How a self-employed person will be able to pay for complementarity if, at best, unemployment can be paid with difficulty. Will it be free and voluntary or rather will it be compulsory, as it will not be able to do anything else to reach the end of the month? You want to allow vultures to enter the social security system. That's what they're allowing. Moreover, they want to do so knowing that private pension schemes are more insecure and unstable. Who proposes to change something that works for something that doesn't work? What hidden interest do you have? You don't work for the citizens of this country, you're doing a golden retirement for yourself and your little friends, like Miguel Ángel Ordóñez, who left with a compensation of 350,000 euros, 95 days a year worked, not as in your labor reform. You are playing with something that also does not belong to you, because pensions are born out of a lifetime of work for thousands of workers in this country. It is their responsibility to ensure that pensioners have these pensions and not to cut them and sell them to their colleagues. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. He's finished his shift. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u105	Thank you very much. Madam Member, first of all, the Government's road map is clear and it does not plan to raise pensions beyond sixty-seven years, as the Socialist Government agreed in 2011 with the social partners, i.e. to raise the retirement age from sixty-five to sixty-seven years in a progressive way. Secondly, I would like to send a message of tranquillity to the Spanish pensioners and workers working today and tomorrow, because the guarantee of the pension system is employment, productivity and, of course, economic growth, which has improved because we are recovering. I do not know if you know, Madam Member, that we have recovered half of the employment destroyed by the crisis, half of it, and the quality of employment, Madam Member, starts with a job. Also, today for each new pension that enters the system, there are five new jobs; in 2011 for each new pension three jobs are destroyed. So, let's go in the right direction. Quota revenues in 2016 to the general social security system increase to 4%, almost one point more than the rate of economic growth in Spain in that year. I will give you a very hopeful data: In January 2017, the net collection in the system is 9.459 million euros, 454 million more than in the previous year, being the highest collection rate of one January in all history, even before the recovery. [[Rumors]] Much remains to be done, but we are in the right direction by creating better jobs every day thanks to the efforts of Spanish society. Madam Member, rather than criticising, I expect you in the Toledo Pact with constructive proposals because pensioners are also Spanish and you owe them too. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA MARIA SURRA SPADEA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT RESPONSES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT FOR THE CATALIAN PEOPLE WHO CALLS FOR REFUGEED AND REFUGEED? [[File number 180/000132]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u107	Question by Mrs Ana María Surra Spadea, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u108	Minister, what response does the Spanish Government have for the Catalan population claiming to receive refugees and refugees?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u109	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, we need commitment and responsibility, as well as the efforts and wills of all, of the public administrations, of the Generalitat and the municipalities, of the Government of Spain and also of the non-governmental organizations that help us to contribute to this great project of solidarity relating to the procedures of asylum and reception in our country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u111	Mrs. Surra.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u112	He feared their response because it is not in keeping with the needs and demands of the Catalan people, who have unitedly expressed themselves last Saturday as an example to Europe and the world about what people in Europe want with regard to the refugee problem. Their response has demonstrated the lack of political will of this Government and the figures, which have already been quoted above, do not deceive; their promises do. First, it does not go to the cause of the conflict that attracts refugees, which is war. There is no peace policy, on the other hand, Spain has risen to sixth place in the ranquin of the sale of weapons. 40% of the European Union's funds for refugees are not used to receive them, but to expel emigrants and to strengthen the CIEs, but the worst is that Spanish money is used in this matter to give it to third countries to keep the issue of refugees out of borders. Moreover, and this is also important, we have a country without historical memory, a country that so many refugees had throughout its history. Faced with this situation, and taking into account the mobilization that has been promoted by young people who have been using their holidays and money for a year to save lives on the shores of Greece and Italy and who have come all the way to Catalonia to promote this united demonstration with the municipalities, the Generalitat, the Parliament, all the people and most of the political parties, we told them - and they did not believe us - that since only the States can grant the Status of Refugees, in Catalonia we had no alternative but to create our own State, the Catalan Republic, with historical memory, which complies with international agreements and is supportive. We ourselves must decide our destiny and many other things. If we are a minority, let them tell us and make us a democratic referendum, which is what we are asking for and what we are asking for. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u113	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, Spain is a country of solidarity and in that solidarity I would like to inform you that Spain is actively participating in all refugee reception processes in our country. Today Spain is responding to more asylum applications than ever before. Over the past two years, more than 43,000 people who sought international protection and asylum have entered our country, more in two years than in the previous seven. Secondly, Spain is actively and consistently involved in the European relocation process launched from Greece and Italy and we work closely with those countries to work together with solidarity. Thirdly, we have also launched resettlement procedures from Turkey and Lebanon to bring people in need of asylum to our country. With all these procedures, the commitment already made to the European Union and the countries where we are going to resettle, Spain ranks fourth in euro area-wide commitments. [[Rumors]] We have a lot to do, Madam Member, but I also ask for commitment, seriousness and responsibility from all of us here, because we deeply respect demonstrations, as you referred to in Catalonia, but we would also like to be serious about all the Catalan administrations in response to that massive solidarity on the streets. Here there is no demagoguery, it is not worth saying in the European Union that Catalonia makes available 4,500 places and then only have 300 places in the register of the Ministry of Employment, of which only 125 can be used because they have to be conditioned and also pay a rent for them. [[The Rumors Continue]] Therefore, I call for serious commitment. Let's work for real, but let's work for real, Congresswoman. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. Before we continue, I would beg a little silence from you; as the morning progresses the murmur is growing and we should respect this turn of control to the Government and make the question and also the answer heard correctly. I'd beg your silence. Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED IDOIA SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHAT MEASURES DO THE GOVERNMENT CONTemplATE FOR THE PROTECTION OF HYPOTECARY DUTIES CONCERNED IN THE SITUATION OF SPECIAL VULNERABILITY? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000139]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u116	Question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness. Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Minister. In our group we are concerned about the mortgage executions, especially the mortgage executions of those debtors of special vulnerability. Law 1/2013 already established a two-year moratorium until May 2015, for those mortgage debtors, especially those who had lost their homes but whose launch had not been carried out. Subsequently, this deadline was extended for another two years by the Royal Decree-Law of 2015 - in total four years - by the emergency procedure and within a package of various measures. As a result, the moratorium period is due to expire in 2017. We understand that this is a measure that was established as an exceptional and short-term measure in the context of an economic crisis and is therefore an interim measure. It is true that, although there are signs of recovery and this will result in fewer mortgage debtors, many families continue in this precarious and vulnerable situation. There are about 24,000 families with auctioned housing that have been able to benefit from this moratorium. Given that this deadline has expired, we believe that it is time to address this situation, to provide these families with adequate legal certainty and, ultimately, to enable these people who are in this situation to resume their lives. We would therefore like to know what measures your Government envisages or what measures it intends to adopt for the protection of these mortgage debtors who are in a situation of special vulnerability; whether they are going to go on further extension and, if so, for how long; when it is planned to adopt it and whether they are going to modify the requirements to benefit from it; and, moreover, as has been said that this measure could be provisional, whether they have envisaged the possibility of including these situations in the new mortgage regulation which they are drafting, in order to achieve a dual objective: on the one hand, to grant effective protection to the consumer and, on the other hand, to eliminate the uncertainty surrounding a figure as important as mortgage legislation may be.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u118	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, the Government has taken steps since 2012 to address the vulnerability situation as a result of factors that affected, as you indicated, many Spanish families. I will update the data to you, according to the latest available from the follow-up committee. These measures have benefited almost 77,000 families; more than 24,000 launches have been suspended; the code of good practice has favoured almost 46,000 families; there have been 38,500 debt restructurings and over 7,000 payments; and the Social Housing Fund has already concluded more than 7,000 contracts. - Then we'll take care of it from the first moment. However, in the line you were commenting, it is necessary to continue with the actions to deal with a situation that remains delicate and, therefore, I can announce that the Government is preparing - it has to be a real decree-law - a rule for the extension for two more years of the suspension of launches, and in addition, in relation to the request made by some other group, we are also considering that the halting of launches affects families not only with children under three years of age but with children under three years of age. However, ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I would stress that what is behind the improvement of the situation of vulnerable mortgage debtors is the recovery of the Spanish economy. We have seen a continuous fall in the last three years, coinciding with the economic recovery, the number of launches, the number of evictions. Today, for example, a report from the European Commission will be published, indicating that since 2014, as a result of economic recovery, the situation of poverty and the situation of the possibility of social exclusion and inequality are shrinking in our country. That's the way, continue with economic recovery. It's not just the palliative measures, it's that each time the recovery reaches more Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u121	Thank you, Minister. We welcome your response and believe that it is in that line that we must continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u122	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, in the coming days we will contact different groups for the preparation of the Royal Decree-Law in the two areas I have already commented on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DONE IRENE MARÍA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE CAN IN COMMUNITY CAN IN MAREA, WHICH FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW HAS THE DISCANCE OF THE BUDGETARY GENERAL VIOLENCE APPROPRIATE TO THE SPANISH? [[File number 180/000128]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u125	Thank you very much, Minister. Question by Mrs Irene María Montero Gil, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, to the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u126	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. The question is how has the reduction in the budget allocation in the fight against macho violence affected Spanish women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u127	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u128	Thank you, President. Your Honor, first I want to start by condemning macho violence. As I told your partner last week, who asked me the same question, it is a priority for this government to put an end to this scourge, but we can only put an end to it from unity. This Government has dealt with all the victims. 016 has received the highest number of calls in its history; 59 per cent more women with home change grants; 16 per cent more women with active income for inclusion; 80 per cent more women with a contract of employment for being victims. An additional 9 per cent of protection orders have been passed and complaints have increased. He has no doubt that we have helped more women who suffer from macho violence from loneliness and silence. And you know how we got it? Together, coordinated with the ministries concerned, with all the autonomous communities, the FEMP, the municipalities, the third sector and with women. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u129	Mrs. Montero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u130	Madam Minister, I think you should be a little more honest and tell the truth, that you do not have impact studies not only of the specific policies against macho violence, but in general of how your government's austerity policies affect the women of our country. This has been denounced by more than 40 feminist organizations which, for example, point out how the gender impact report accompanying the current budgets does not even assess the amount of budgets. I will give you some data: cut of 22% in the heading against macho violence from 2011 to 2015, which accounts for 0.01 % of the budget of the entire Spanish State; more suppression of municipal funding and municipal competences in the fight against macho violence. Then, when we propose to repeal the Montoro law, you vote against. And you know? One in six murders - data from his own ministry - in 2016 are sexist crimes. Today there is one who had a restraining order and just released in the press. There is a 33 per cent cut in equal opportunities programmes when, for example, 80 per cent of adolescents are experiencing a situation of male violence. Nor is there any analysis of the impact on women of their policies and the gender gap in pension or unemployment protection or child education and their infamous policies, which do not respect public child education, or the Unit Act. Not to mention that the 2004 Law does not recognize all male violence, and only contemplates as male violence the aggressions that take place within the framework of the relationship. I will make a few proposals to you: let us implement the Istanbul Convention; let us recognize all macho violence, including harassment, also genital mutilation; let us restore the Ministry of Equality by complying with the United Nations observations in this regard, which calls for us to maintain it; let us assess the impact of austerity policies, not only those specific to macho violence and how phenomena such as the feminization of poverty occur; and let us cross-reference equality policies in terms of pensions, dependency or education. Finally, I would like to tell you that on 8 March there is an international strike called by women of care, work and consumption. I invite your Government to promote and support it. Let's make state policies to get the machismo out of our lives. We want each other alive. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montero. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u132	Thank you, President. Your Honor, machismo not only ends with money, but with unity, with coordination, with education and social sensitivity. You speak to me exclusively of figures, and I speak to you of people, of women who suffer and of all the measures we have taken in this last parliamentary term. This Government has been the first to promote a national strategy to eradicate gender-based violence. We are already working on the second national strategy to eradicate violence. We have given 100 per cent of the orphan's pension to children who are left without their mother; it has been the Government of the People's Party. Ending gender-based violence is everyone's responsibility and, therefore, approving the 2017 budgets would also be everyone's responsibility. I'm waiting for you there, approving the 2017 budgets. We are a responsible government that we work with groups for budgets for 2017. We are a responsible government that we are working with groups for a state pact to end violence. It is in this House that a working subcommittee has been unanimously adopted. It is in the Senate that a paper has been unanimously adopted to end this scourge. It was at the Conference of Presidents that an agreement was reached with all the autonomous presidents and President Rajoy to end this scourge. Add to the state pact that is what women expect of us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FRANCE IGEA ARISQUETA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO COMPLETE THE PROJECT OF THE SINGLE HEALTH TARJET RECOGNISED IN POINT 52 OF THE INVESTMENT AGREEMENT SIGNED WITH CITIZENS? [[File number 180/000130]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u134	Question by Mr Francisco Igea Arisketa of the Citizen Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u135	Thank you, President. How does your Government intend to comply with point 52 of the Investment Agreement with Citizens on Single Health Card and Digital Clinical History?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u136	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, what we have written we have fulfilled and are complying with the investment agreement with Citizens. We are working from continued cooperation with the Autonomous Communities to ensure that both the implementation and interoperability of eHealth and access to the National Health System are a reality and respond to the levels of cohesion, quality, equity and security that citizens require. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u138	Mr. Igea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u139	Minister, the reality is that in April last year Enrique Dans, one of the greatest technology experts in our country, came back from La Coruña and stopped at the resort of Mondariz with his wife. Your wife has a migraine attack and needs sumatriptan. He has his card from the Community of Madrid, he goes to the pharmacy, the boticario tells him that with that card he can do nothing and sends him to the emergency room for a doctor to give him a prescription. Fortunately, he does not do this, because he would have spent six hours in an emergency service collapsing the service and besides there no one could have read his medical history with his card. This is the reality. I, who am a doctor, could tell you hundreds of cases like this. Fourteen years ago, the Health Cohesion Act was created. Fourteen years later, two decrees and 500 million euros spent, the Spaniards are still unable to travel safely with their health card throughout their country. The diagnosis is that only four autonomous communities issue and receive electronic prescriptions today; that there are several communities, including Catalonia, that have declared themselves rebellious about the project and do not provide any information to it; that no community is in a position to share the full clinical history, and this has to end, has to end and, therefore, we sign this agreement. What we ask you from Citizens - you were in the negotiation - is that you guarantee us with a calendar and concrete measures that no Spanish will spend Christmas Eve of the year 2018 in an emergency service because someone has not been able to read your card and someone has not been able to see your history. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u140	Thank you. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u141	Thank you, President. Mr Igea, our will is to fulfil the investment agreement that we signed in August 2016, and we will do so with the utmost respect and coordination of the competences of the autonomous communities. As of January 31, 2017 we have the database of individual health cards of the National Health System with almost 45 million registered people, when in the census of our country we are 46.5 million; therefore, we are almost 100%. We assign a unique and vital personal identification code for each person, a code that is valid throughout the State. In addition, we articulate the continuous updating and exchange of information between autonomous communities and we are working and ensuring the interoperability of all old and new cards throughout the National Health System. The digital medical record already covers 35 million people, i.e. 77% of the total number of people with an electronic individual health card; in 2011 only 6 million people had it. And the electronic recipe achieves an implementation of 87%, when in 2011 it was only implemented by 50%. It is true that we have to reach one hundred per cent and it is true that we have to achieve interoperability between autonomous communities in the electronic recipe. Today, there is 87% internal interoperability within the autonomous community, and it is true that we have to continue working to reach 100% by card and prescription. Mr Igea, we share objectives as to what should and should be done in the National Health System. On January 25, in the Senate, the Socialist Group and the People's Group encouraged us to reach a state pact to meet all the challenges ahead in order to preserve and improve our National Health System. I offer this pact of state that I was offered in the Senate so that with Citizens and with all the groups that join us we can make a pact of state in this legislature to include all these issues that concern us all, such as preserving the National Health System. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u142	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended on the occasion of the parliamentary event which will then take place on the occasion of the visit to the General Courts of Mr Mauricio Macri, President of the Republic of Argentina. The meeting will be resumed after the end of the event. Thank you very much. It was ten and thirty minutes in the morning. The meeting resumed at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We now turn to the agenda item on requests for the establishment of committees of inquiry. I would remind you that, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, the requests of the Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Mixto will be discussed together, for the creation of a commission of inquiry on the possible responsibilities arising from the performance and management of financial institutions during the financial crisis. The request of the mixed and Republican Esquerra parliamentary groups, for the creation of a commission of inquiry to clarify the irregularities in the departure to Bankia Stock Exchange, and why the officials of the Banco de España and the National Securities Market Commission, in charge of overseeing the constitution and exit to BFA-Bankia Stock Exchange, authorized the operation despite knowing its inviolability. And the request made by 83 Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to set up a committee of inquiry into the process of nationalisation and consolidation of the financial group BFA-Bankia. In order to defend the proposals put forward by your groups, Mr Candela Serna is speaking first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will at the same time establish a position.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to say first of all that we accept from our group the transactional that the Socialist and United Party has come to, although we understand that Bankia has sufficient depth and complexity to have an exclusive commission on this, but in the interest of consensus we accept that transactional. In yesterday's plenary we attended one of the stories that the People's Party has used to try to abstract or disassociate itself from corruption. They say that corruption has been a timely problem focused only on 1% of their political positions. 1 % in which I assume that there are also the posts designated by the Government. They tell us: only 1% of our positions or our people have been linked to corruption processes. And before this statement you don't know what to say or what to do, you don't know if to apologize, feel lucky because it's only 1% or pray a parent. But the clear question here is that that 1% of the People's Party, plus some undetermined or undetermined percentage of the Socialist Party, have contributed to creating a hole of EUR 26 billion in the Bankia case. That's the reality. Because in the end, ladies and gentlemen, Bankia is a paradigm more of the cases of widespread fraud that have occurred in this country. Bankia, ladies and gentlemen, symbolizes the process of corruption and putrefaction of the financial and economic elites of this country. Bankia is a further example of the marriage of the political and economic elites of this country. And now it is likely, as has already happened other times, that the debate will look upon who is to blame, whether the People's Party, the Socialist Party or the other way around, but that is a false debate that wants to hide the true nature of Bankia; another example of the economic and democratic scam that has involved the management of the crisis and that covers these two parties. For example, ladies and gentlemen, at the Aznar stage, why did the former governor, Jaime Caruana, dispense in 2004 with the reports signed by the inspectors when making decisions about financial institutions? Or at the stage of the government of the Socialist Party, with Zapatero, why did the Bank of Spain approve the departure to the Stock Exchange without basic information, such as the perimeter of the assets of the boxes, the commitments of its parent or the new shareholders, as reflected by Pedro Comín and Pedro González in their official report, three days before making the decision? Or how is it possible, for example, at the People's Party government stage, with Mariano Rajoy, that in December 2014 Minister De Guindos accused the Zapatero government of forcing wills and making supervisors look the other way? If that was the view of the Government, why did it defend the exit to Bankia Stock Exchange and contact some entities to support it? Or why has the current government allowed those responsible for the Banco de España to remain in their posts until the scandal broke out and they had to resign? I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Bankia's management is but a new example of who has ruled in this country and who have always lost the same. Bankia is another proof of why we are here, and we are here to tell the corrupt, the scammers and the plunderers of this country to listen to one thing we want to say to them: there will be no peace for the corrupt, there will be no peace for the chorizos, and if anyone feels alluded to and has wings, let him not fly. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that a Parliament that wants to work from the point of view of rigour should be interested in the public administration of a very large amount of public money dedicated during the years 2009 and 2010 to rescuing part of the Spanish banking system. This committee of inquiry must work from the point of view of rigour, not as a parallel court - because justice in the end will also, I am convinced, do its work - but to ensure that in the parliamentary sphere there is complete transparency in the use, misuse, management and mismanagement in important areas, also in a very important role of the Government and in a very important competence of the Governor of the Bank of Spain, such as the supervisory role. And it is clear that during those years 2009 and 2010 the supervisory functions of the Banco de España and the General Directorate of Caisses, of the Ministry of Finance, did not work as they were supposed to. And proof of this, among other things, is that the former governor of the Banco de España is being investigated and will declare within two weeks on one of the extremes that have to be the subject of our interest. There is no doubt that this Parliament should investigate the alleged, but very striking and manifest, irregularities that have occurred in recent years in the Ministry of the Interior. I hope and hope that this committee will start working immediately. By the way - and let me just say by the way - I understand, if my memory is good, that the agreement between the People's Party and the citizens was also set out for some other committee of inquiry, of which we have never again felt any comment or impulse. Focusing on our own support for the creation of this committee of inquiry, as I told you last week we had the debate on a proposal by a parliamentary group for the creation of a public bank and I said in that debate: Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of whether there is a public or private bank, good financial services - and the financial system must also play a social role - can be provided perfectly from the private sector if this private sector, the banking sector, is correct, timely and sufficiently supervised. We are talking about more than €60 billion earmarked for the rescue of some banks and boxes in 2009, 2010 and 2011. We are talking about a recovery of only 7%, at the moment, of what was invested in rescuing parts of the banking system. If you ask me whether public money should be invested in the rescue of the banking system, my answer is certainly yes, but the conditions should also be laid down for the recovery of the money invested, of public money, and it is obviously time to carry out an in-depth scrutiny of the important gaps in the political sphere and also in the field of political responsibility, because, ladies and gentlemen, I have told you about the responsibility of the Bank of Spain and some of the responsibilities that have been assumed in this field, of the responsibilities in the Ministry of Finance, but since one of the aspects to be investigated, discussed and scrutinized in this committee is the exit to the Bankia Stock Exchange when the authorities were aware of the insolvency and the non-reliability of the exit to the Bankia Stock Exchange, we should obviously also ask for responsibilities from the National Competition Market Commission and for the launch of a public offer supervised by that commission in a situation more than critical of Bankia. Madam President, I'm finishing up. The cash system and the Spanish banking system would not have to be a placid retreat for exit politicians and I believe that several political parties must be critical and self-critical about how things worked in the past; they must face responsibilities - legal and criminal ones will be faced in the courts - but we must also call for the recovery of money dedicated to the rescue of the banking system, these more than €60 billion, and face any political responsibilities. It must be done rigorously. This is not a parallel court, this is not a television set, this is a place where you have to work in depth to seek, as always, the useful truth. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u148	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Beyond the international economic crisis, in the Spanish State there has been a crisis of its own that has been a direct consequence of the neoliberal policies of Mr Aznar's government: from the liberalization of the soil of Mr Rato, which caused the real estate bubble, to the liberalization of the boxes that stimulated the financial bubble, while the great pharaonic works with money that we did not have and generating an immense debt. In addition, the debt increased the liberalisation of energy that, despite the immoral benefits of oligopoly, has generated us more than 25 billion debt, or the military bubble, which has generated us more than 30 billion euros. When the neoliberal bubbles exploded, as was predictable, despite the silence of all the neoliberal gurus, banks and boxes were rescued with public money while thousands of families were allowed to fall into misery; and, even worse, there was the de facto forgiveness of much of the money loaned to the banks to save them while the families were condemned, as we said earlier, to return the credit of a house from which they had already been dispossessed. With the excuse of the payment of the debt generated by the neoliberal policies of the public and financial administrations, the labor and social rights of the entire population have been curtailed, while the great fortunes and enterprises have continued to increase profits and assets. That is to say, the crisis, as always, has been paid by the victims and not by the culprits of it, those who generated it; but, worse, after years of cuts to pay the debt, it turns out that the debt is even greater than before the cuts or, in other words, their recipes are not working, they have not worked and they do not work. Not only are they not working for the working and working classes, they are not working in macroeconomic terms either. Therefore, we have the reasons and therefore we believe that a committee of inquiry is necessary, and it must be done in the past, in the present and in the future, that is: what were the causes of the crisis, what have been the policies that have been carried out to alleviate its effects, and what are the legal changes that must be made, that we must make, so that in the future this does not happen again. At the same time, this committee should be used - and should be used - to analyse the respect for the rights of customers and consumers and to take all the necessary measures to ensure that they are respected and redeemed, from the ground to the preferred clauses. Unfortunately, we are afraid that this committee will not serve much of what we would like it to serve, but from the Republican Left we will try and claim it. At the very least, we want this committee to highlight who has been the culprits and who are the victims of this crisis. In Catalonia, in January 2013, the commission of inquiry was set up on the possible responsibilities arising from the performance and management of financial institutions and the possible violation of consumer rights. That this commission should be set up in 2013 and in Catalonia means the will to know what had happened and what was going on, it means speed and will, the will for things to change, for something to change. It is curious for those who all day say that in Catalonia we only care about the flag and the anthem. The truth is that in the Spanish State, unlike what has happened in other parts of the world, penance in this matter or in this matter has shone because of its absence; the trial of the banking system, the banking system and the causes of the crisis, as I said, has shone because of its absence. In other parts of the planet, banks have done penance... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u149	One second, Mrs. Capella. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. From here you don't listen to Mrs. Capella because of the murmur they have. [[Pause]] Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u150	He said that the trial of the banking system, the banking system and the causes of the crisis had sparked their absence, and he also said that in other parts of the world banking entities had paid their penance; among other things, some of their managers had ended up in prison. As we have always said from Esquerra Republicana, we have witnessed a fight between usury and greed, against people's rights and we cannot bet on who has won this fight. From Esquerra Republicana we will work so that it does not continue to be so, always winning this fight the usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u152	Thank you, Madam President. The economy is often seen as a sort of strange science, of science alien to the everyday problems of citizenship. I think that should not be the case, because then we run the risk that every time people talk about economics, we disconnect here Members of Parliament, we disconnect the public, we disconnect citizens, and in the end we turn this into a sort of technocratic committee in which a very strange jargon is spoken and which is of little interest to almost no one. I don't think that has to be the target. The goal is precisely to discover the truth, to understand what has happened in our country and what has had consequences that we know very clearly. Today we know perfectly well who has paid for the economic crisis. What we don't know is who caused it. We have some name, some loose name, some court that has given some clue, even some that has talked more about the account and said how it acted for mortgage fraud, for interest rates and on so many other issues that affect the everyday life of citizens. And if we have learned in these years throughout Europe that the state is not neutral, its governments have intervened in a very direct, very unneutral, very unpassive way, to the benefit of one part of the population and to the detriment of another part of the population. It will be necessary to see why this has been the case, what the concrete consequences have been, and who, with their names and surnames, have been responsible for taking that political option. The economy is not a dark art, it is a way of doing politics, it involves ideology and taking sides, and in our country it took sides in favor of a number of people and large companies, and we know what the consequences have been: unemployment, inequality, misery, poverty, destruction of the precarious productive model that we already had and a number of issues that we all know very well. Five years ago, day up or day down, I myself also came to this rostrum and we put forward a proposal from a committee of inquiry into the crisis. The absolute majority of the People's Party dropped that proposal, which would not be the only one to be debated in that legislature. Today, five years later, this new parliamentary arithmetic allows for the opening of a first commission of inquiry into the causes and responsibilities of the crisis. I think it's good news, because there are precedents in other countries that didn't have so many repairs and that did it much faster. For example, the case of the United States, which allowed the initiation of a commission of inquiry where they circulated through Congress and the Senate up to seven hundred appearances in a total of nineteen days with a wide range of work of one and a half years. This led to some very interesting conclusions. Our group is well aware of the limitations of the Rules of Procedure of this House and therefore of the limitations of the committees of inquiry. However, they remain an instrument to find out what has happened in our country, what has happened, for example, with the property holes. Let's get down to concrete. What does that mean? It means that there were a number of entities in the financial system - savings banks, banks - with a number of managers offering a series of loans, credits, promoters, builders and real estate companies that were absolutely risky, that were possibly out of all the known standards and that however over time it was proven that they failed and that they generated a huge wealth hole that we already know who paid for it. It has been paid for by public health, public education, public pensions, benefits and ultimately by the working social majority of our country. But why have the directors of the Banco de España not all this time investigated each contract one by one to find out who put the contract to the builder with all those conditions and why has not all that been known and why not even the Banco de España itself has said absolutely nothing? [[Applauds]] Because let's not forget that the Banco de España during those years was dedicated to proposing wage moderation, that is, lowering wages, increasing the retirement age... In short, all good news for big companies. However, in its competence, which was to monitor the financial system, it ignored all its responsibilities. The inspectors of the Banco de España in 2006, before the outbreak of the crisis, sent a letter saying to the directors of the Banco de España: Beware!, here is a problem that can explode. What did the directors of the Banco de España do? Absolutely nothing, ignore it. But it's just that those directors of the Banco de España have names and surnames and we'll have to know it here. Not to make an academic thesis, it is not that - there are already many academic theses on that issue -; it is that this is the seat of popular sovereignty and we need to know who are responsible for it having cost us today to have deficiencies in our public pension, health and education system, because it has an absolutely immediate correlation. Nor, as some groups want to make believe, is it a problem for the public. We know from the study of the international financial crisis that there are many private entities around the world that have had the same problems as savings banks in our country. And we also know that there are many savings boxes in our country that have had no problems, such as La Caixa or the Basque boxes. What does that mean? That this cannot be limited to a problem of ownership or its nature; it is about managers, managers with names and surnames, managers with links to political parties, with links to big builders, with links to what, in short, is the oligarchy of this country. That's what looted us. However, beyond certain judicial rulings which on the one hand or the other have been clarifying some particular, particular issue, our country knows absolutely nothing about those responsible for the crisis, it knows absolutely nothing about who they really are. And I think that's a problem, because it means sending a very perverse message to those who are trying to plunder our country and it's: You can work with impunity, you can steal from us with impunity, you can plunder us with impunity because, total, citizens are going to look the other way. But it is not citizenship, it is its public representatives who, until now, have not wanted to open a commission of inquiry to put those names and surnames. I believe that this is not only an economic but also a democratic problem. When Parliament does not investigate the causes of the crisis, I believe that it is favouring any kind of mangrove in a very clear way. Let's all study, we don't have any problems. The Socialist Party wanted to investigate the People's Party; the People's Party wanted to investigate the Socialist Party. It's an advantage, I don't see it as an inconvenience; let's investigate everything. Every year of Aznar, every year related to the real estate bubble, every year of Zapatero, every year that has to do with bank bailouts. We are going to make a good work plan, not to throw ourselves at each other, but to know the truth, which is quite a different issue. There are political responsibilities among those who denied the bubble, among those who denied the crisis, among those who did not do their job, among those who passed laws to promote financial rescue, among those who favored the sale of banks that were business to a euro. There is much to investigate and we are not going to limit ourselves to one or two issues. We know that it is ambitious, we are aware - I said earlier - of the limitations of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but we believe that very serious things have happened in our country from international institutions to national ones. I can give the example of the European Central Bank, it is very easy to understand. For a time, in our country, the European Central Bank lent to the international banks already rescued at international level 1% and those banks lent to the Government of Spain, through public debt, 5% or 6%. That is as if I lend it to the People's Party, for example, 1% money and the People's Party lends it to me 5%. I must be foolish enough to accept that. It turns out that the different governments of Spain have been accepting and tolerating that for many years, which has increased the public debt that has later served as an excuse and lever to cut public. That seems to me to be the most basic component of trilerism, of fraud, of something really terrible that should be investigated: the role of the European Central Bank, of the International Monetary Fund, which, by the way, was saying the same thing as the Socialist Party in the government, that is, that there was no problem with the financial system, that the savings banks were even stronger than the banks. In short, I think we have a lot to study, but it has to do not only with the economy, or rather, it has to do with the economy but seen from another perspective. It is not the same to see things above the table as to see them from below, the focus is different. The economy cannot be seen from a technical point of view, it has to do with what it means in people's everyday lives. And when there is an ERE, when there is an eviction, when there is a cut in public health that leaves out important sectors of our population, when there are all these issues, there is a direct link with those who have been looting this country for a long time. The problem is that these looters have gone off with rositas as we are seeing, many bankers who have gone, even with retirements of eighteen million euros being precisely responsible. Justice is there and there to resort to it but the role of this Parliament is another; the role of this Parliament is to find the truth. If it turns out that, as the Rules say, we find a truth that can be sent to the prosecutor's office because there we have an addition, a complement, which is perfectly possible. This Parliament has to say the clear things to citizens, what has happened, who has plundered us and, by the way, regardless of the political colour, ideology or football team of which the looter is the looter. If he's a looter, he should be in jail. A country doesn't prosper if it doesn't have its corrupt bankers in jail. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Saura García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Spanish society deserves a thorough investigation into the role of the Spanish financial system and the authorities - all the authorities - in one of the largest real estate bubbles in the world and, of course, the most important real estate bubble in our country and the financial rescue that took place in 2012. Therefore, if we want to do the research right, if we want to go to the root of the problem we have to start by talking about the real estate bubble, we have to talk about the years 1999 and 2000, we have to start there. I insist, the Spanish society deserves an in-depth investigation of what has happened, an external evaluation - not like some who now intend to make an internal evaluation of what they have done - so that basically what has happened will not happen again. Here, in addition to finding out the responsibilities, we have to look to the future so that what has happened in our country over the years does not happen again. Ladies and gentlemen, approving such a committee of inquiry is a symptom of democratic maturity because the suffering of many citizens has been very great and the consequences have been very important. I insist, we have to investigate so that it doesn't happen again. It is not only the costs that taxpayers have had to pay - around 6 points of our gross domestic product - but it must also be placed in the liabilities of this perfect storm, among others, the inefficient allocation of resources to the detriment of innovation and that has also had a consequence on productivity, on the employment that was created at that time which was precarious and, of course, on the unemployment that we are currently experiencing as a result of the crisis. In order to prevent what has happened from happening again, this committee of inquiry has to go, as I said a few seconds ago, to the genesis of the problem and the problem has its origin in the laissez faire of the 1990s, in which it was believed that the financial markets functioned efficiently and did not need any rule, the regulators did not have to intervene. Markets and the financial system were self-regulating. Greenspan called Wall Street bankers pollinating bees. All this responded as a pendulum to the active public sector policies launched in Europe after the Second World War. However, Spain has a specific list to comment on. In Spain, from 1996 onwards, deregulation policies are imposed in all markets and sectors, including soil. The countercyclical provisions are relaxed, looking elsewhere as to what the amount of credit was about the value of the asset that was wanted to be purchased. Excess banking, absence of payment and ground clauses which caused the offer of credit to be greater. Tax incentives for the purchase of housing, valuations in the hands of banks, etc. The result was a real estate bubble that fed a credit bubble that, in turn, stimulated the real estate bubble. The response given by the authorities at the time to the real estate bubble in the early 2000s was a change in urban legislation, which encouraged the real estate boom, which had the funding to frame our country and thus refuel the real estate bubble, i.e. the price of housing and land. Seen in its entirety and retrospective, it is neither true the economic miracle of Spain nor the 'Spain goes well' nor the goodness of those years. In front of the bubble, the authorities looked away and did not fight the credit bubble, largely because in those years they claimed that there was no real estate bubble, that there was no bubble of the price of housing and soil. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some who want to make the public nature of savings banks the scapegoat, almost exclusive, of the financial crisis, and this approach is not rigorous, unfair and, moreover, an ideological approach. There are savings banks that were well managed and today are the basis of solvent financial institutions; otherwise, four banks were rescued and seven others disappeared by integration. Some banks today have some very serious problems that, probably, if they are not corrected, we have to pay the Spanish. It is true that the boxes had limitations in attracting capital and its governance, but one of the great achievements of 2010 was the changes in governance and a new legal structure of these financial institutions. The foundations committed to investment in the territory, I mean the foundations of the savings banks, today allocate about 1 billion euros to social, cultural, scholarship and investment policy. Consequently, the pattern of the financial crisis was not, on the one hand, the model of savings banks and, on the other hand, the model of private banking. No, the pattern was that of good managers and bad managers, the pattern was that of those who concentrated their risk in a given sector and that of those who diversified their risk not only in other sectors but also invested outside Spain. Therefore, rigour in the analyses. The origin of the crisis we have experienced has to do with deregulation, laissez faire, the understanding that the market and the financial system are self-regulating, ladies and gentlemen. Let's not do unscrupulous analysis. The real problem of Bankia - careful with the smoke curtains also here! - are the losses accumulated by bad investment decisions, in this case, of its managers. In other words, the real problem of Bankia is the hole in the investment decisions of this financial institution and, later, the management of the government to remove Rat from the presidency of Bankia, an issue that triggered our country's bank bailout. The Socialist Group demanded a committee of inquiry in 2012 which the majority of this House at the time rejected; a committee which we have again called for in recent times. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Spanish society deserves a commission of inquiry into what has happened, primarily so that we have the instruments of alert with the aim of not happening again in the future, to adapt the regulation to the greater demands of capital and international risk assessment and for a change in governance, homologable to international best practices for institutions such as the Banco de España. From the year 2000, ladies and gentlemen, until the beginning of the crisis, the weight of the credit of the real estate sector multiplied by five, the indebtedness of households and enterprises increased one hundred percentage points of the gross domestic product; however, neither one entity nor the Bank of Spain nor any authority took a single measure to correct this situation, rather, the authorities at that time said that there was no problem, that there was no real estate bubble, that there was no problem in the price of housing and in the price of urban land. And the worst thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that at this time many of those who did not make a single decision are now trying to give us lessons from what needs to be done in the future. This is what we find every day in the media, which try to give us lessons about what needs to be done for the future. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we need to set up a Commission of Inquiry, with the maximum time we have given ourselves of sixty days, to study everything that has happened, to study the origin of the problem, the consequences of the problem, with the healthy goal that it will not happen again. But fundamentally, ladies and gentlemen, we have to understand that the market is not self-regulating, that the financial and banking system is not self-regulating and that, finally, it is not the public or the private, it is not the good or the bad managers. Spanish society demands an explanation of what has happened, we have to go to the origin of the problem, to the truth, fundamentally, so that in the 21st century in our country the real estate bubble that has occurred in our economic history does not take place again. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u155	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. We arrived five years late, but finally the Committee on the Investigation of Cash and the Larger Financial Rescue that has suffered in this country throughout its history comes to this House. It arrives now, but we had asked it before; Citizens asked it, but the People's Party and Socialist Party members prevented the Congressional Bureau from approving an initiative to investigate the boxes. [[The Lord]] I am pleased that, probably because of the recent accusations and news we have had, they have finally decided to open their hands and allow us to investigate, as I say, one of the biggest economic disasters in this country's history. As we already know ourselves a little, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of the Socialist Party, I hope that you will allow the Commission to function normally, to function transparently and that you will allow us to really know what happened at that time. In Citizens we think it is simply justice for Citizens to know what happened to their 60 billion, what happened in this country, who was responsible, what decisions were made for the Spanish to have lost a decade of progress. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, in this House we spend the day talking about massive unemployment, long-term unemployment, lack of resources in hospitals, cuts in education; we talk about the deterioration of our democracy, the innumerable cases of corruption and the political patronage that has permeated each and every one of our institutions, the evictions, the preferences, the ground clauses, the growing inequalities, the enormous debt that drowns families and small businesses, the tax increases, the frustration of our young people and the poverty of children. But we seem to forget that the original cause, the mother of all these problems is in a very clear place. It's not, as Mr. Saura says, far away, in some laissez faire policies that were made in some dark corridors of Wall Street. And the origin of the pain suffered and suffered over the last few years by millions of Spaniards is in the rotten power relationship that was generated in this country in the late 1990s between the financial system and political power, which became a gigantic real estate bubble that, because of its decisions, was about to take the country to the edge of the precipice. [[Applauds]] Mr Saura, Mr Rojas - who I think will intervene now - how are we not going to investigate what happened during all those years? If we want to be an adult nation and we want to be an advanced nation, let us do as all adult nations do when they have a ransom, let us investigate, let us speak from the House, let us seek, let us answer the questions whose answers citizens deserve to know. I would say that there are two key words to understand what happened in those years in Spain: politicization and looting. The boom worked as a veil of ignorance: we grew much, we gave credit to mansalva and, in the meantime, the old political parties - by the way, including Mr. Garzón's party, United Left, which seems to have been forgotten by you while speaking in this rostrum - systematically permeated each and every one of the institutions in this country. [[Applauds]] From the financial regulators to the interveners and secretaries, who should control the massive corruption that was generated at the local level in this country, from justice to savings banks, all the boards of directors of these banks took on the road all the shortcuts that could control their abuses of power. The first part of the looting begins in the late 1990s. With the entry into the euro and the fall in interest rates, which fostered this principle of boom, the incestuous triangle between savings banks, autonomous communities and promoters, orchestrated by the old political parties, began to be created in Spain. It was a win-win game: savings boxes controlled by friends gave unlimited credit to promoters and friends to finance the balls, which ended up returning to the game with millionaire bites. And meanwhile, pharaonic investments in the villages, giant airports in the middle of nowhere, roundabouts with busts of mayors, ski slopes in the middle of the plateau and parks of grotesque attractions. Between 1999 and 2007, two thirds - I repeat, two thirds - of the houses that were built throughout the European Union were made in this country, the indebtedness of the families reached 200 % of GDP, half of the balances of the savings banks - of the boxes, because it is not the same as that of the banks - was dedicated to credits to promoters, most of them friends, of course, and to construction issues. Crazy from any point of view. From an economic point of view, a real suicide, gentlemen. I imagine that the citizens over the last few years have wondered: but if all this was so demented, if the looting was so disproportionate, where were the politicians?, where were the regulators?, where was the Banco de España, who was responsible for stopping everything that was going on? Zapatero arrived at the Government in 2004. The IMF, OECD, think tanks and renowned economists were already warning that the situation was beginning to be delirious and that it was necessary to start pinching the bubble; I say this because Mr Saura seems to have forgotten. What did Mr. Zapatero do? From the economic policy to the even greater construction of housing to feed a little, if not enough, the gigantic boom that we were creating. I mean, a firefighter came in, instead of a hose, with a flamethrower. But the worst thing is that when the house was already absolutely destroyed, when everything was burning, Mr Zapatero went out to the terrace, fell in the pool and said: we are a great country and, besides, don't worry, Spanish, there is beginning to be green outbreaks. The green that Mr. Zapatero saw was supposed to be the one with the millionaire bonuses, the one with the notes that his colleagues were taking on the savings box tips. [[Show a chart]] [[Applauds]] Why didn't the government do anything? Why didn't Zapatero do anything? Why weren't the regulators there? Why did the Banco de España not take steps to stop the tremendous brown that was going to fall to all the Spaniards? Those are some of the questions we hope to ask in this Committee. The second chapter of this looting begins with the symbolic and brand-new arrival of Mr. Rat to Caja Madrid; that is, after a year and a half of a fratricidal battle within the People's Party to control what was really the real jewel of the crown, where the cash was and where we could really squeeze the money; so they fought so much. By the way, Mr. Garzón, on the council of Caja Madrid, where his party was also represented, unanimously approved the arrival of this flaming and brilliant economist. [[Applauds]] The first decision of Caja Madrid was to merge with Bancaja, also presided over by another brilliant and well-known financier, José Luis Olivas, former president of the Valencian Community. They thought if they joined two rotten apples they'd make a great apple. [[Laughter]] But the reality is, when you have two rotten apples, you create a gigantic rotten apple. And they said, "Now what do we do to solve this problem?" Well, look, we're going to go to the small and poor savers of this country with some great products that we know, very dark, that only buy hedge funds, very complex, that are called the preferred ones, and we're going to plug them 8 billion at the cost of their savings. The rest of the story already knows it: Bankia's shares were worth a quarter in less than a year; the preferentialists lost all their money; Mr. Rat went out the back door; Bankia's bailout cost us 20 billion and the case ended with thirty-three defendants. Why was that merger decided? Why did regulators still not take the bull by the horns? Why did politicians continue to deny the gigantic problem we had in the balance sheets of our boxes? These are questions that we will have to answer in the Commission. This is what I'm finishing up with. The third part of the looting took place in the summer of 2012, when in the end it was so demented that we had to recognize that we needed a rescue. Mr. De Guindos, at his press conference in June 2012, said that we had just received a loan on favourable terms and that it would have no cost to the Spaniards. The truth is, it was a full-fledged ransom that ended up costing us 60 billion. To date, no party has assumed any political responsibility for the disastrous management of its representatives in the savings banks. We hope that this Commission will make that possible. I'm done. The Spaniards have been the victims of a looting in three chapters: that of the gigantic boom trapping that I have already explained; that of the hundreds of thousands of savers, small savers and families who lost all their money deceived by politicians with eager ambitions of power and protagonism, and the third looting is that of the remaining unrecognized massive savings boxes. We're going five years late. It is time to turn on one of the darkest stages in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. With your help, I would like to thank your ladies and gentlemen for the constructive tone of their contributions and for the compromise that we are going to sign so that there will continue to be transparency in this House. Mr Roldán, who has just spoken, I think he has forgotten to explain the position of his mentor, the economist Mr Garicano, advisor to Liebherr Bank. I also believe that it has had some other forgetfulness, and it is the position that the Government has taken since 2012 and that it has done so much good for our country, succeeding in regenerating and reforming the financial system. [[Applauds]] With regard to Mr Garzón, I wanted to say that there is no impunity here. In our country, the rule of law governs the rule of law and, indeed, you know that justice has now pointed to the leadership of the regulators appointed by the socialist government at that time. This is the action of justice, and ours is that of respect for this judicial procedure and the constitutional rights of the investigated, whoever they are, militate where they militate, because, above their status or position, they have the right to the presumption of innocence as all Spaniards. The Socialist Party, Mr Saura, joins this Committee of Inquiry, which we actually wanted to extend with this amendment and now this compromise signed by all. But the Socialist Party has been doing so since a very interesting internal debate, and it is whether to start this parliamentary committee of inquiry first justice has to finish its work. Mrs Robles, then chairman of the Committee on Justice in this House, has made a strong point of defending this. Of course, it is contradictory if that is defended and, at the same time, the request for a Committee of Inquiry in Congress is being signed with the rest of the groups. This is contradictory, but we respect the debate because it exists and it is not a baladi debate. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, our group is ready to analyse everything that has happened with transparency, although it is true that we - and you know it - have always made this clear from the very beginning. The current Minister of Economics, Mr De Guindos, was already talking five years ago about the mistake that the jump to Bankia's park was supposed to be, and it is good that all those mistakes are analyzed, because from the perspective of these five years we will be much more clear about the concepts. If we make an analysis of what has happened without falling into political apriorities - something that has been said here by those who have preceded me in the use of the word and that I think is good -, we will check the importance of making in-depth reforms when they have to be done or just staying in making reforms on the surface. As I said, we had tabled an amendment to make a calm and thorough analysis of the causes of the financial crisis, as well as its response by the authorities and supervisors since 2009, but it is true that it can be expanded to study the role of supervisors at all times; to assess the impact of financial assistance for 2012, to see if it has been better and good for the Spanish economy, as we argue and because we are convinced that this will be the case; to conduct a comparative and temporary study of the impact of the measures and to assess the impact of the sanitation process on the economy. [[The lady]] We want to look at the decisions taken since the start of the banking crisis, because we have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that we wanted to find solutions, and now we believe that the compromise we have reached to examine everything is good. As I said to you, everyone wants to seek solutions when it governs, but it is true, Mr Roldán - I quote you especially because you have not said it - that we were facing an international crisis of unknown dimensions, very deep, and that was said throughout the European Union, in the United States, everywhere, it was a very big crisis. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that no one when they rule wants to do things wrong. Did Mr. Zapatero want to do that? I imagine not, I imagine you would have the good will to help your country as president of all the Spaniards, but it is true that some face problems and others not so much, and here you will probably see from a political point of view. We were faced with a crisis of unknown proportions and it is possible that, at first, the measures to be taken were not correct. But it is also true that we were not heard, and this House is to listen to the parliamentary spokesmen and to the Members of the opposition as well, and that here the People's Party Government has always said, even with an absolute majority, to listen to everyone, that is its way of doing things and its way of working, but it was not so done with Mr Zapatero's Government, because the People's Party was already warning what was coming. Ladies and gentlemen, if we put the zum on that time and look at the merger and the exit to the Bankia Stock Exchange, we see things like those that have been mentioned here too, as Mr Roldán has done. Mr Zapatero said that we were in the Champions League, that we had the best financial system in Europe. Mr Solbes told Mr Pizarro in that famous debate that we were faced with small turbulence in the economy and that of course there was no crisis in the financial system. That was in 2008. On the other hand, I heard Griñán, former president of the Andalusian Board, say in the Andalusian Parliament that we were faced with a soft landing of the economy, when the risk premium was already triggered. I give you this example because, look, from the President of the Government at that time, passing through the ministers, the autonomy and surely reaching this perception to the regulators themselves, the case is that nobody wanted to recognize the crisis and nobody was facing reforms in depth. It is also clear the contagion effect that began in cascade, starting with the president of the government with his anthological optimism. Whether there were political guidelines or not, that is what we have to see in this Committee of Inquiry. But did everyone have that perception? Clearly not. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party was warning us, and those who warn us are not traitors. Analysts' reports had already warned since 2006 of the need for in-depth reforms. It will be necessary to investigate why these reports were ignored, why there was a breakdown of the regulators' dome into all those reports, and what guidelines were being taken. It should be borne in mind that, by the end of 2006, the main investment banks, such as Merril Lynch, warned of the risk of Spanish boxes given the concentration of their portfolios in the real estate sector, and the Banco de España seemed alien to these analyses. From 2009 onwards, preferential emissions are increased and placed massively among small investors. Regulators allowed the issuance of 9 billion out of 600,000 individuals, violating European investor protection legislation. Are there any responsibilities? It will certainly have to be investigated in this Commission. No one wanted to bear the cost of a thorough reform at that time, and what happened was that hundreds of thousands of Spaniards were loaded with the mochuelo. You see, ladies and gentlemen, when Mr Saura talks about Bankia's investigation, we agree that everything needs to be investigated. But for the same reasons of bank management, Mr.Saura, we will have to investigate Caixa Castilla La Mancha, Caixa Burgos, Caixa Guadalajara, Caixa Sabadell, Caixa Terrasa, Caixa Catalunya, Caixa Tarragona, Caixa Manresa, Caixa Manresa, Cajastur, Caixa de Extremadura, Caixa Penedès, Caixa Granada, where the Socialist Party knew that things were being done that really did not have to be done and that had to be governed differently. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, there were seven cold mergers and two departures to the Stock Exchange, all of which failed. And with the Socialist Party and the Government of Zapatero, for whatever reasons, they will have to explain, nor did the corporate government of the entities - Mr Garzón, we -, nor did they adjust the salary to the bankers - gentlemen of Podemos, Mr Garzón, the People's Party did -, nor did their compensations be limited. The Government of the People's Party, just to arrive, took these determinations that undoubtedly had the applause and recognition of Spanish society. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, far from what you want to put forward many times, public money is not used here and has not been completely wasted by the People's Party government. If capital had not been injected, the depositors, hundreds of thousands of Spaniards, would have lost their money. That is what has happened, that the banks have not been rescued, has gone in aid of hundreds of thousands of Spaniards, of the Spanish economy and of employment. By the way, Bankia has already recovered 7.5% and will continue to recover, no doubt, because things are being done well. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you, to make it clear, that from 2012 onwards the reforms are beginning in depth with the People's Party Government, and believe me, I am convinced that this is going to be seen in the Committee of Inquiry. Only with the entry of Rajoy's government begin the measures that five years later turn Bankia, gentlemen, and look at the data, the most solvent entity in our country right now, according to the analysts of Julios Baer. Bankia has also scored the best in stress tests, with a 9.58, and has increased its customers by 7% over the past year. The reform has therefore been a success, thousands of jobs have been saved, thousands of citizens have been returned, and millions of deposits have been secured. The reform of the system has been a success with the People's Party Government, according to most international experts and agencies. Since 2014 it has begun to increase credit to SMEs and private individuals, and that is clear, ladies and gentlemen. I'm closing, Madam President. Our country, today, is a leader in economic growth in the developed world, we grow twice as much as the European Union and this has certainly been done, because behind there was also a great in-depth reform of the financial system. I am sure that this agreement, this transaction, will be positive, so that the mistakes that have been made in the past will not be made again, because I think that is what the whole of Spanish society is asking us for, and that is why we are here. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u159	Thank you very much. ELECTION OF DEPUTED PARTIES REFERRED TO IN THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF DEPUTED PARTIES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS OF 11 MAY 2004: - No, no, no, ELECTION OF DEPUTED PARTIES REFERRED TO IN THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF DEPUTED PARTIES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS OF 11 MAY 2004. [[File number 052/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u160	We then turn to agenda item VI, on the election of Members referred to in item 3 of the Resolution of the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies on Official Secrets of 11 May 2004. The election shall be made by the system laid down in Rule 205 in relation to 204 of the Rules of Procedure, and Members of Parliament up to a maximum of seven who, by belonging to different parliamentary groups, obtain a higher number of votes, reaching at least a three-fifths majority, that is to say 210. As there were no interventions, I shall call a vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin voting. We are voting, first of all, on points 24, 25 and 26. Having tabled a compromise amendment to the requests for the establishment of committees of inquiry, we will vote on the compromise amendment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes cast; 330 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u162	The request for the establishment of the commission of inquiry was approved. ELECTION OF DEPUTED PARTIES REFERRED TO IN THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF DEPUTED PARTIES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS OF 11 MAY 2004. [[VOTING]] - No, no, no, - No, no, no, ELECTION OF DEPUTED PARTIES REFERRED TO IN THE THIRD POINT OF THE RESOLUTION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE CONGRESS OF DEPUTED PARTIES ON OFFICIAL SECRETS OF 11 MAY 2004. [[File number 052/00004]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u163	We turn next to point 27: Election of Members referred to in point 3 of the Resolution of the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies on Official Secrets of 11 May 2004. We shall proceed to the vote by ballot. Each Member shall write on the ballot up to a maximum of seven names of Members each belonging to different parliamentary groups. I would remind you that there will be no ballot papers containing more than seven names or more than one Member from the same parliamentary group. I would ask the Secretary to proceed to the appeal of the ladies and gentlemen. The secretary-generals of the Bureau made an appeal to the ladies and gentlemen, who were putting their ballot papers in the ballot box. After the vote, the voting began. "End of scrutiny," he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-22-CD170222.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, has no Member been called to vote? [[Denials]] Once the vote was held, the result of the vote was as follows: votes in favour of Mr Rafael Hernando Fraile, 327; votes in favour of Mr Antonio Hernando Vera, 327; votes in favour of Mrs Irene Montero Gil, 328; votes in favour of Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, 326; votes in favour of Mr Joan Tardà i Coma, 297; votes in favour of Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, 327; votes in favour of Mr Jordi Xuclà i Costa, 301; blank votes none; null votes none. Therefore, having obtained more than three-fifths of the votes of the members of the House, the above-mentioned Members have been elected for the purposes of the Presidency resolution of 11 May 2004. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Bravo!]] The meeting rose. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
