ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, plenary session number 48 is open. In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and with the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of item 29, corresponding to the urgent inquiry of the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the assessment of the so-called Operation Dialogue with Catalan institutions and civil society in order to achieve a better understanding. [[Mr. Xuclà]] Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of the reference point is therefore approved. On the other hand, I would remind you that, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, the vote on all the matters discussed today and tomorrow will take place at the meeting on Thursday.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u2	Let us begin the debate on the agenda items. [[Rumors]] I'd beg a little silence, ladies and gentlemen. We begin with the point concerning the consideration of proposals for legislation, in particular the proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Groups in Congress and Socialists, amending Law 1/1996 of 10 January on free legal assistance. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Moro Almaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u3	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. This afternoon, the result of the work of many rowing in the same direction and with a clear objective, with the consideration of this proposal of law, for which on behalf of my group I call for the support of all those represented in this House, we give unequivocal response in defense of our model of office and free justice. The purpose of this proposed law, presented jointly by my group, the Socialist Group and the Citizens Group - we regret that today the latter withdraws from the signature, although we trust that it will maintain its word and its conformity with the proposal - is to strengthen the public service character of the activity carried out by the professional groups in the free legal assistance, strengthening it and ensuring that it is duly subsidized by the public authorities, recognizing the corresponding compensation in favour of the professionals who provide it. Despite the compulsory and free configuration of the free assistance service in our country in practice, the current wording of Law 1/1996 occasionally uses misleading terms that have been able to call into question the elements of compulsoryity and the non-remunerative nature of the amounts received by the collegiates. These expressions of the legal text have probably led to a revision of its earlier interpretation of VAT rules in the Directorate-General for Taxation after two judgments were delivered by the Court of Justice of the European Union in respect of other European systems of free justice and to the adjustment of their interpretative criteria with regard to the taxation of value added tax. The work and the Government's conviction on our model of free justice at all times since a new interpretation was made public after the Court of Justice's judgment of 28 July 2016 in respect of the Belgian State, listening to professional colleges and political groups, is undoubtedly the substrate of this proposal of law, whose presentation has been accompanied by the decision to suspend, pending the parliamentary initiative, that interpretative criterion not adjusted to the true Spanish model until the adoption of this reform. I consider it fair, ladies and gentlemen, to highlight some figures to know what we are talking about. This public service is served by nearly 44,000 lawyers through 83 schools, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, as the Observatory of Free Justice reminds us in its latest report. The president of the General Council of the Attorney General points out that the office shift is in the DNA of the lawyer, to which I want to add that it has been consolidated as a very relevant public service because of the generosity and professionalism of lawyers and prosecutors, who in Spain at all perform a onerous service when attending to it. The defence of the model of this public service, protected by article 119 of the Constitution, which cannot be assimilated to other Europeans, is part of the definition of the social and democratic state of law that we have given ourselves with the current Constitution, guarantees the fundamental right to effective judicial protection and has been adapting to the new challenges, being advanced in many cases from the normative recognition by the State of the extension of the service to the attention of the most vulnerable. The data from the last observatory in 2015 regarding the legal profession speak for themselves. There were 905,000 applications, of which 621,000 were processed by electronic file. A total of 1 745 000 cases of free legal aid were dealt with, resulting from each of the more than 749 000 cases referred by the schools, because, in many cases, several cases arise from them. More than 1,098 000 belong to the office shift, more than 582,000 to the legal aid service for the detainee and around 64,000 to the gender violence service. According to the Metroscopia report of May 2016, this service, in the last decade, not only by numbers but by the type of issues and vulnerable groups to which it is addressed, has been considered of high quality, even as one of the best in the world, according to comparative studies. It is not a service that is limited to the performance of lawyers, but also - as I have said - it reaches the prosecutors. The ex officio duty in this case guarantees the procedural representation of the defendant, in accordance with article 24 of the Spanish Constitution. With this proposal for a law we seek to clarify the terms of the legal qualification of our model of shift of office and of free justice in respect of which, probably, a relaxation of legal terminology may have triggered contradictory interpretations in relation to those held by the European Court of Justice on other models of free justice. Hence the explicit definition in this proposed law of this service coincides with the configuration given to the Spanish model, at least since the publication of Law 1/1996; a compulsory public service for professional colleges of lawyers and prosecutors as entities governed by public law which are, and the consideration of compensation for the State's financial compensation for the provision of the service, with the consequences resulting from it for tax purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, the common European system, under the relevant directive, is subject to VAT the provision of services performed for a fee within a Member State by a taxable person acting as such, and these are not. According to Article 132 of the same Directive, States shall exempt services if they are provided by entities governed by public law to which the State recognizes their social character. Furthermore, article 7.10 of Act No. 37/1992 provides that the provision of services free of charge referred to in article 12.3 of the Act is not subject to value added tax, which is compulsory for the taxable person under legal rules or collective agreements, including telegraphic and telephone services provided under franchise. As we said at the time of registering this bill, when parties agree on matters of general interest they win all citizens. Furthermore, the Government, through the coordinated work of its ministries of Finance and Justice, has made it clear at all times that it defends this model of free justice and agrees to consolidate and improve it. To achieve these objectives, this bill will include the following key features of the free justice system in our country. Firstly, the compulsory nature of the service is strengthened - as I have said - by making explicit reference to this in article 1 of the Act. Secondly, it is the professional colleges that are responsible for the organization; under this mandatory nature, these colleges will be able to organize the free legal aid service in terms similar to what they have been doing so far. Thirdly, the text consolidates the compensatory nature of the amounts included in the bar for lawyers and prosecutors, where appropriate, within the terms of their service, who provide free justice services. Finally, the effects of the standard are reversed on 1 January 2017. Many of you, ladies and gentlemen, will not remember that series of Antonio Mercero, Turno officio, but it was a driving force in adolescents and young people of the eighty of many vocations for the world of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we are not talking about fiction; we are dealing with and worrying about the quality of our rule of law, the basic instruments of our democracy. We must recognize so many professionals who do not spare time for a conviction, that everyone has the right to effective judicial protection, to be assisted by a lawyer and represented by a prosecutor at very delicate times, regardless of their social, economic, cultural situation, what they have done or the right they ask to be recognized or restored. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we all feel more committed to what professionals are asking us to be proud of one of the jewels of our justice system, but also what Spanish society is asking us to do, so I am sure that everyone will support this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moro. For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. To speak today from this forum of free legal aid, shift of office or whether VAT should be paid or not for these benefits is almost a balm in the turbulent waters in which the action of the Government moves: cases of corruption and something unprecedented, and is that these cases of corruption are splashing the very actions of the Attorney General of the State and the Chief Prosecutor Anticorruption. Anyway, we'll talk about this tomorrow and many more days in very different forums. We will now focus on claiming the favourable opinion of this House for the consideration of a bill amending the Free Legal Aid Act. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common space to talk about the legislative initiative as an instrument - perhaps the most powerful - of innovation in the legal system. Most of the time, legislative initiatives have a clear purpose that is nothing other than to bring about a change in the regulatory system, to give a new regulation to a situation, either because there is no regulation before or because there have been huge changes and the previous regulation has become obsolete. Well, the motion for a law that we are presenting to this House today, three parliamentary groups - although we have already known the incidence of one of them - is, like so many things these days, very peculiar. This is a legislative initiative so that everything will be back as before the disguised in which the Directorate-General for Taxes put us. They have heard well, we intend to change the Law on Free Legal Assistance, because changing the Law on VAT - which would seem most logical - would bring us new and unwanted problems; legal amendment so that the turn of office provided by lawyers and prosecutors, or legal assistance to the detainee, is not trapped in the tax networks. It never was, by the way. We will highlight with change the compulsory and free nature of these services, provided that they are provided within what is known as free legal assistance. It does not seem necessary to invoke the constitutional nature of such assistance, and it was understood by the Directorate-General for Taxes itself for a long time, which always insisted on its non-taxation with VAT in its compulsory and gratuitous nature. That was the case until two judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, one dated 17 June 2010, Case C-492/08 and the other dated 28 July 2016, Case C-534/16, were interpreted as meaning that Article 132(1)(g) of Directive 2006/112 should be interpreted as meaning that the services provided by lawyers to defendants enjoying free legal aid under a national free legal aid scheme, such as the main purpose of the main proceedings, are not exempt from VAT. The Directorate-General, without analysing the French or Belgian national models referred to in both resolutions, took this criterion and without further analysis concluded in a binding consultation that these benefits are subject to VAT. He transferred the legal nature of such a benefit from a pen, incorporating the fact that he provided it as a taxable act and, therefore, subject to the payment of the tax. My parliamentary group is a signatory to this legislative initiative, but it would have liked to have made a minimum in-depth study of the judgments of the Court of Justice from the relevant ministries, comparing the French and Belgian models to which the judgments of 2010 and 2016 and the Spanish case refer - as I said earlier -. Since we are left with the Belgian, which is a real detonator of the change in orientation, it has not been considered that the Belgian free justice system has a system of compensation which is not fixed in a scale as it exists in the territory of the Ministry of Justice in Spain following the 2003 Regulation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. In Belgium, the compensation of lawyers participating in the free legal aid system is determined on the basis of a point method assigned to each process, the corresponding value being determined each year on the basis of the overall legal aid budget, the fees being fixed by the Ministry in accordance with the total scores that each year are sent to it by the schools and which will depend on the type of cases in which the right of free legal aid has been granted to them. A literal interpretation of the 2016 judgment led the Directorate-General of Taxes to change its view and to a pen to carry decades of good doing, so that it pointed out that such services - those of free legal assistance - are subject and not exempt from VAT, with the general tax rate of 21 % being applied, being charged without the slightest contradiction with the 1986 resolution itself, which came to say that the services provided by lawyers in the so-called shift of office for assistance to the detainee are obligatory for those professionals under the existing legal rules which were provided for by the fact that the amounts received by the aforementioned professionals did not have the character of remuneration or compensation for the provision. Without entrusting itself to anyone, the general management dismantled the two basic budgets of free legal aid: compulsory and, of course, gratuitous. The alarms did not wait and all the alarms were launched from the General Council of the Law and the associations of consumers and users, this initiative being the response to such cries. If you'll excuse me, it's a fireproof law. This is the objective of the legal amendment that is now being submitted to this House to try to repair the damage from the beginning of the year by single reading and urgent procedure. It is a single article law that amends eight articles of the Free Legal Assistance Act of 1996 with a single final provision. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to spare you the details of this article, which focuses on the whole of your literature to highlight the compulsory and free nature of the provision, emphasizing the fact that it is a properly subsidized public service and recognizing that what professionals receive is compensation; it is compulsory services and therefore, as we have always known, it is not subject to taxation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Campo. As no counter turn has been requested, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. This bill, with new measures on the mandate and constitutional guarantee for the provision of justice and the right to free legal assistance, is progressing in regulating the procedure for better recognition and effectiveness. This is very important because, as so many times lawyers and prosecutors, their general councils and their official schools have warned and claimed, we are faced with an element of social cohesion that is essential for people without economic means to exercise their right to effective judicial protection and to have access to it who prove insufficient resources to fight, as provided for in Article 119 of the Spanish Constitution. This legislative amendment, which Forum will support with its vote, seeks to alleviate the difficulties of lawyers, 43 000 in all of Spain - almost 1000 in Asturias - who provide free assistance, and also clarifies the concept of subsidy and specifies that of bar compensation. This brings an end to the confusion generated by misrepresenting the perceptions of free legal aid as fees and applying 21 % of VAT to them. In any case, we are faced with a legislative amendment that should be a relevant part of the urgent and essential process of modernising justice, which has not yet taken place, so that justice can be adapted to the social and economic realities of our country and of the times. Hence the creation of a subcommission for the study and definition of a national justice strategy, which must serve as an impetus for the completion of the status of an ex officio lawyer, which should be enshrined in a forthcoming legislative framework. In Spain we need to make progress in the provision and quality of a public service that is based on the trust lawyer-client and that needs easy access to its provision so that the lawyer can do her work with immediacy and close personal proximity, decent infrastructure and adequate material means, always in favor of the citizen requesting the benefit of free justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Compromís has always been about promoting free legal aid as an instrument for the generalisation of the right to effective judicial protection, but we are also concerned about civil liberties, such as the right of association, also in its negative facet, that is, the right not to belong to any association; the right to withdraw from this project. Article 36 of the Spanish Constitution, when it speaks of professional colleges, only establishes what is called a guarantee of institute; that is, the assurance that they will continue in the new constitutional framework, but does not speak at all of the compulsory membership of them. It is true that the presence of general interests allows the legislator in some professions to introduce obligations there. In any case, this should not be an excuse for public administrations to abandon their functions. This is precisely what we see in the bill that we are discussing now. This bill is also confusing and leads to some inconsistencies. How can it be said in Article 1 that the professional colleges will be the ones that can organize the service and those that can dispense the collegiate with the benefit when there are just causes, but then in Article 22 it is said that the general professional councils will regulate and organize the service? What are we left with? Can it be or should it be? In addition, who is required to do so under article 22? To schools or colleges? It's not clear to us at all. How can it be said that free legal aid will be compulsory and at the same time take over from schools? Why doesn't the Administration, if it's going to force the collegiates, as it seems, to be all in turn, a public register of turn servers and it's the one that controls the access requirements? Why do professionals have to be subject to disciplinary responsibility? Appreciated and applied by whom? By those who are their equals, by members of the college boards, equal to them but who are their competitors in the market. How will a homogeneity in control be ensured in the face of the great differences in the means with which the different schools count throughout the Spanish geography? In short, we are faced with a text that is soon raising more questions than those that were said to have been resolved. In Compromís we are in favour of the progress of free legal aid, which is why we have tabled amendments to the budgets in order to increase the appropriations allocated to this. We are going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, but we have already announced that we will be submitting a number of amendments at the appropriate time, the acceptance of which, in the interests of the clarity of the draft, will ultimately depend on the meaning of our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Obviously, we share the motivation behind this proposal for a law, which is to return to the non-taxation of the services of the office. However, as a result of the stalemate - and it has been said here - caused by a resolution by the Directorate-General for Taxation, a proposal for a law has been tabled which, at the outset, raises a great deal of doubts. I am going to vote in favour of it, but we are going to table amendments to try to clarify what we now feel is somewhat ambiguous. Firstly - and this has already been said - who is responsible for the compulsory provision of the service, on the professionals or on the schools? In fact, the minister has said in various forums, and to questions from our group, that it is indeed the schools, not the collegiates, who are obliged to do so. However, from the text of the article it is inferred that there will be a kind of dispensation for lawyers who cannot serve for whatever reason. What are we left with? Is a regulatory catalogue to be dispensed with and debarred from what actions are dispensable? It is not clear to us that this means exempting lawyers from compulsory benefits. A second doubt we have - we only have three; I tell the President for the time being - is related to the fact that there is a competitive invasion in Article 25. In fact, the autonomous communities with competence in the management of services, such as Catalonia, which invest a great deal of money to ensure the provision of the service of the office shift are already involved in their maintenance, management and management. Why does the Ministry of Justice have to enter the kitchen of the management of this service and do so in those autonomous communities in which it does not have this competence? We feel good that he should do so in those communities where the ministry has competence. Thirdly, and in conclusion, it would be a good thing to provide that these subsidies, which are preached and reflected in the law, are guaranteed budget allocations. It cannot happen, as is inferred from the proposal as drafted, that this subsidy has an improper discretion as to the importance of the rule of law involved in the exercise of office. We will therefore give our yes to the procedure, but we reserve the vote until we see what the final wording is after the debate on the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u13	Thank you very much, President. The proposal for a law amending Law 1/1996 is, as has already been said, the cause of a decision of the Directorate-General for Taxes on VAT and the shift of office of 25 January 2017 determining the subjection of the remuneration of the services of the shift of office to the benefit of free justice to the value added tax. The Directorate-General for Taxes thus changed its view that, since June 1986, the services provided by lawyers and prosecutors to beneficiaries of the right to free legal aid were not subject to VAT. This change in criterion was justified by that general address by a judgment, as has already been said, of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 28 July 2016, which ruled that the provision of legal services of free legal assistance in Belgium, being voluntary for lawyers and subject to remuneration, could not be excluded from VAT. However, the Spanish model of the benefit to free legal aid is entirely different from that of the Belgian model. For this reason, the change in the criteria of the Directorate-General for Taxation has been unanimous between lawyers and prosecutors and affects, in the case of lawyers, around 4400 throughout the State, 83 professional colleges and 1 750 000 cases dealt with in the course of the year. [[The lady]] The State model of free legal aid is based on the right to free justice when provided by law and, in any case, on those who prove insufficient remedies to argue, as stated in article 119 of the Constitution, in order to give effect to the fundamental right that all persons have to obtain effective judicial protection in the exercise of their rights and interests, without, in any case, being indefensible, as described in article 24.1 of the same Constitution. And it is Law 1/1996, on Free Legal Assistance, which carries out the constitutional mandate cited, determining that the duty of attorney is not voluntary and that compensation to lawyers and prosecutors is not remunerative. Thus, lawyers and prosecutors have an irrefutable obligation to ensure the provision of service and, ultimately, the exercise of the right to effective judicial protection of those without recourse to litigation. And this irrevocable obligation for lawyers and prosecutors turns this service into a public system governed by administrative rules and subject to public discipline. The reform of Law 1/1996, which we are now discussing, further reinforces these features of free legal aid in Spanish law. The compulsory nature of the legal benefit to its beneficiaries, whose organization is vested in the professional colleges as a corporation governed by public law, is reinforced in order to guarantee the right recognized in article 119 of the Constitution. Moreover, it is also reinforced that the compensation provided by lawyers and prosecutors is of a nature similar to compensation, because it is not understood as remuneration since it departs from market prices and because it is imposed without the professional having the capacity to modify it, in addition, it is subject to fines, and thus compensation is paid to lawyers and prosecutors for the provision of a public service. And it is precisely these notes that are characteristic of free justice in the Spanish State, the obligation to provide lawyers and prosecutors and that the compensation provided for this assistance is not the nature of a remuneration but of compensation for administrative damage, which determines that this compensation is not subject to VAT, which is precisely the debate which seeks to resolve the proposal discussed and which is why we will support this procedure. Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u14	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very late. The present proposal for a law jointly submitted by the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party seeks to amend several precepts that affect the current Law on Free Legal Assistance. I would like to tell you that the wording would be improved in view of the fact that, as previously pointed out, it leads to a mistake in the matter of compulsory provision, leaving the provision of the service outside the scope of the subsidy - Article 37 of the proposed law - out of the scope of the grant. I would like to think that this is a mistake because, if not, this would be a court of duty. It has already been said that this proposal for a law gives rise to a decision of the Directorate-General for Taxation, but it also gives rise to a judgment of the European Court of Justice which established the applicability of VAT to services provided by lawyers when such services are provided by lawyers to those who enjoy this right under a national regime - it is referring to the States - of free legal assistance. As a result of this pronouncement, the following amendments are proposed in the bill: first, the compulsory nature of the service for collegiates when they have to provide it. Colleges of lawyers and prosecutors should organize the service so that the collegiate may be exempted from providing it where there are reasons to do so. As stated in article 1 of the proposed law. According to Esquerra Republicana, it would only be mandatory if there were not enough lawyers or prosecutors who could provide it on a voluntary basis. Dispensation from service where there are reasons to do so has to do with aspects that affect incompatibilities and other issues. On the other hand, with this regulation and with this ambiguous wording of the proposed law, the maintenance of the current volunteer shifts of the bar associations and prosecutors is being rendered ineffective. It is also said that professionals who provide the service are guaranteed compensation, not remuneration or professional fees, which will be intended to compensate for their professional actions. We understand in Esquerra Republicana that this can lead to legal difficulties for the payment, for example, of advances for activities carried out during the processing of a certain procedure, extreme that is done in professional schools as that of Barcelona, both in the bar association and in that of prosecutors, and in the organization that they have to anticipate the payment of activities carried out both by the lawyer and by the appointed prosecutor. It is also envisaged that the budget allocations for the service will not only subsidise the establishment but, more specifically in the latter case, the care and operation of the services provided by the schools. However, as I said, they forget the provision of the free legal aid service. Existing legislation provides for the provision of the service and talks about the provision of the service. Do you forget about the benefit for any reason? We're missing something from this legal change. In addition, as previously stated, article 25 of the Convention contains a clear and notorious invasion of jurisdiction. Nobody escapes that the bar associations in this case are public corporations and that the right of defence is entrusted to lawyers and this is their main function, as stipulated in articles 10 and 11 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, articles 24, 25 and 119 of the Spanish Constitution as well as the Organic Law of the Judiciary. We understand that the proposal for a law goes beyond that, it has also been in a non-conscious way, although we doubt it, and makes, at least in its current wording, the provision of the public service of the defence of the law compulsory for lawyers, except for the dispensation of the lawyer who can give effect to the school when there are reasons to justify it. That's why we said that in this way they make the volunteer shifts that currently exist disappear. In Esquerra Republicana we argue that compulsory service is achieved by the bar associations, which must articulate a system that guarantees universality, equality and the quality of the service of the office, and for the lawyers it is the provision of this service of a voluntary nature. What did we not like about the theft of both the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and at the time I suppose that of Citizens, even though it has taken off at the moment? That this proposal could have been perfectly agreed by the various groups of the House, inter alia, because it was intended to maintain - and was understood - the non-taxation of the services provided by lawyers and prosecutors when the defendants enjoy the right to free legal aid. Secondly, because we cannot understand what they are pursuing with this wording, which we understand to be confusing - and he has not only said it, Republican Left - with regard to the binding nature of the bar associations and lawyers. In short, despite these criticisms of the bill and as its consideration is now being debated, the Republican Left will vote in favour of its consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u16	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by welcoming and transferring the recognition of the Citizens Parliamentary Group to all the colleagues who practice law and demand and who are attached to the office of free justice, who devote much of their time, professional activity and the resources of their office to providing a quality public service, with a great vocation and with a great dose of social commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to free legal aid is a fundamental pillar of our democracy by ensuring effective judicial protection for all citizens, regardless of their economic capacity and resources. However, the professionals who lend it do not receive the recognition they deserve from the public administrations. The scale of compensation they have received for many years has not been updated, even in the case of some autonomous communities these have been reduced. On the other hand, there are considerable differences between territories, which widens the gap in the unequal treatment of these professionals by the various public administrations. If we add to this the usual and persistent delays in the payment of compensation both in the territory of the ministry and in some communities, we come to the conclusion that working on the shift means paying little, bad and late. Imagine how you should have sat down to these professionals, who are in some case owed up to nine months of delays, to be told by Mr Montoro that from 1 January the shift of office becomes VAT, that you have to advance it from your pocket in your quarterly declarations and that the Administration will already pay you. If I had to quote a series, as Mr Montoro likes to do lately, it wouldn't be Office Tower, Mr Moro, it wouldn't be that magnificent Spanish series, it would be a new one entitled: A series of catastrophic misfortunes. It is argued that the change in criteria of the Directorate-General for Taxation was based on a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 28 July 2016, which resolves a Belgian case and points out that these services are neither compulsory nor free and should therefore be subject to VAT. I do not need to say that in Citizens we respect the judicial decisions deeply, but, as the whole sector concerned has already warned, the Belgian model is not equal to the shift of office in Spain. Firstly, let us remember that this public service is provided through professional colleges, lawyers' and prosecutors' colleges, and that in Spain the provision of the service by professional colleges is mandatory. It occurs, for example, in small judicial parties in which there are few professionals with open offices and the obligation is established for everyone to be able to cover the service. Imagine, for example, a case with a number of litigants that surpasses that of collegiates with an open office in a judicial party. What happens then? The corresponding professional college appoints lawyers or procurators, even if they are not attached to the professional shift. Free legal aid is compulsory, because no one, no justiciable, can be left without representation or defence. Secondly, the shift of office is not remunerated by the fact that it is a payment made by public administrations to professional colleges as a subsidy for the costs of organizing and managing the service, for processing the applications for appointments, for managing the lists and their order, for distributing the work, for making all the necessary communications, and for this purpose invests in material and human means paid with that subsidy. Then we are not just talking about what professionals who ultimately provide the service perceive. Finally, there is also no presumption that it is not free, and that is why it should become VAT, since although some quantities are collected, they are far from the cost or actual price of the service. According to the Observatory of Free Justice of the Spanish legal profession, an average of EUR 2 per hour of work was available and, in the case of prosecutors, it is not uncommon to perceive it or even to cover the average cost of filing costs per file due to non-inclusive travel and photocopies to be carried out. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, it could be said that this reform was not necessary and that it was obvious that the provision of services in the office of free justice should not become VAT. But what is plentiful does not hurt, and we will obviously vote in favour of this reform. The fact that we have withdrawn our signature is solely because we want to preserve the limited number of legislative proposals that our parliamentary group has. We will support this reform, which is limited to changing in law all references to compensation and to strengthening the concepts of compulsory and subsidizing. Nothing new, there's no more, we're not inventing the wheel. Gentlemen of the Government, please address the problems that this country has, many of them, and do not create problems that we did not have before, real problems such as those that we have proposed in our non-law proposal of measures for dignity and recognition of office duty, which we hope will have the majority support of this House, an initiative in which we call for a new Law on Free Legal Assistance to improve the service that citizens receive, to unify them with minimum common criteria and to end the unjustifiable delays in payments, a new law that provides for the introduction of guidance services and prison legal assistance in all schools in which a prison facility exists, a new law that creates a specific office duty in the area of international protection, a new law that develops article 21 of the Law on Gender Violence and establishes that legal assistance to the victim is mandatory at police headquarters before making the complaint. These are reforms that really need the Free Legal Aid Act and which, when the time comes, I hope you will have your support, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u18	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u19	Mila esker. Pick it up on. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. It is said that politics is the art of providing solutions to problems that it itself creates, and in this case it is true. It is also true that a corollary I have just invented is that problems cannot be solved by creating other older ones. This is what happens to this law. It has already been said that there is a resolution by the Directorate-General for Taxation - wrong, from our point of view - that at a certain point creates a problem of interpretation in free justice. He believes this because we believe that the Tax Directorate basically has no idea how free justice actually works or how it is being implemented. Therefore, if I am allowed the expression, applying VAT to all this was absolutely crazy. There was no difference between ex officio, free justice, which is the shifts, which is the services, which is a client, in quotes, and what is the constitutional law related to effective judicial guardianship. And when this kind of technocratic interpretation is done, what has to happen, that the lawyer suddenly finds a serious problem that has not foreseen in any way and that generates some alarm, which makes us have to come quickly and run not with a decree law - I do not know if it is that we have scarmented - but with a proposed law of this kind, signed in this case by the Popular and Socialist groups, with the support, as we have already seen, of Citizens, to solve this problem. Well, if anyone reads the explanatory statement of this law, it turns out that the main problem that is explained here and that, for the sake of peace of the whole legal profession, it is said that it will be resolved, does not appear in that explanatory statement. It is not clear that this will be resolved. In the park of this explanatory statement, which is almost unworthy of being called explanatory statement because it does not explain or motivate anything at all, the only thing that is said is that professionals are obliged to assist with an important vocational commitment. This generates the first oxymoron: either this is mandatory or this is vocational; or it is imposed or told to someone who can and should manage this service in a vocational form, which is equivalent to voluntary. Secondly, it is said that this is intended to strengthen the public service character of this activity by ensuring that it is properly subsidized, as if with a proposed law of eight articles we are effectively guaranteeing the subsidy of this law when we have seen in the budgets that the increase in the amount of free justice is exactly zero. That is how free justice is properly guaranteed, that is, that people who do not have the resources to fight and have access to the courts can be defended. Therefore, from the very first moment on, what this law means is not being explained. More doubts arise when we go to article 1, which already augurs a change of model. Why do we say it's a model change? Because the whole law equivocally navigates between tax and ignorance. Why? Because when we let Montoro make the law so that he can fit into his interpretation of the taxes - this one that he does with the general direction of the judgments of the European Union - he handles some terms that solve some problems but that generate other much bigger ones. You talk about the service being mandatory. There is no doubt about this, because we jurists read it; it is something we know how to do and there is little interpretation here. He said that it would be mandatory and that the service could be organized or dispensed to the collegiate when there were reasons to justify it. Therefore, we have changed a strictly vocational model in which collegiates voluntarily register for a mandatory model in which, as an exception, lawyers or prosecutors, if the school dispenses them for reasons that are not known, will not be part of the compulsory shift. So, each school is going to say what are the reasons why a collegiate does not belong to the office shift? Will inequalities be created between schools depending on the interpretation that each one makes of this theme? What are the dispensations going to be? What reasons are they going to give themselves? Is the principle of equality to be guaranteed? And the issue that we are most concerned about is that in the event that a person is required to have it on a shift of office, with what quality will he defend the people who need that lawyer or lawyer to be involved in defending his interests when he does not want to do so voluntarily? This is it. This is simply the reality. There are a lot of people with an impressive vocation and self-denial, but they do so on a voluntary basis; they do so because they believe it and sometimes go far beyond what the rules themselves or the laws would mark as playing field. Do we load all this up? Is this the question? Is this going to be the interpretation? We don't know. We may have to go to a different model of free justice, because the law is from the year 1996 and we are already struggling to adapt it to the reality we have, but what is by no means possible is to generate patches of this kind that will cause many more problems of interpretation that will have to be solved by the bar schools that you have not asked for, because you have only spoken to the General Council of the Judiciary. Yes, Mr. Hernando, they're going to leave you there. That's the point. We'll see what happens when the lawyer on foot, the one who's solving all the day-to-day problems, realizes how this system is working. That is why we are going to abstain in this bill. We hope that all the fundamental defects and forms that we have warned will be corrected. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States may, in common, derogate from the maximum period provided for in the criminal prosecution law. [[File number 122/000086]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u20	We then go on to discuss the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, repealing the maximum time allowed for the investigation in the Criminal Prosecution Act. Mr Mayor Perales has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u21	Good afternoon and thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that the bill we bring to this session is quite simple, just an article, but an article that goes straight to the Gordian knot of our criminal procedure. On 6 December 2015, a procedural amendment allegedly implemented by the People's Party entered into force. In this amendment we have a key that is found in article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, where maximum time limits are set for the investigation of criminal cases, a general time limit of six months and a time limit for cases of special complexity of eighteen, something that has been denounced by the whole range of legal operators. Even if new evidence appears, even if we have outstanding issues, when the deadlines come, we'll see how we can deal with the procedures in the trash. This law has been described in some cases as Berlusconi law, the law of the final point, the law of impunity, and comes to the case because Berlusconi, that great example of State management which enterprise for particular benefit, had one of the highest levels of political degradation in the European Union; as Luigi Ferrajoli, an Italian jurist, recalled. Berlusconi proposed in the Italian Parliament a very similar amendment, a modification which was promoted by Minister Alfano, a modification which proposed to reduce precisely the deadlines for the investigation and, incidentally, in an environment similar to that which our country was at the time of approval, although it still retained the absolute majority of the PP; a shamful environment of corruption, an environment suffused by the use of public institutions for partisan benefit and for the benefit of economic elites, an environment characterized by the looting of everything for a few. After all, what are the crimes most likely to be affected by their limitation within the time limits of investigation? Firstly, and without a doubt, it seems that the object was cases of corruption, but then we will find the difficulties of investigation for economic and societal crimes, organized crime and in cases of terrorism. We are aware that the amendment that we are putting forward in this proposed law was reflected in the proposed anti-corruption law and protection of whistleblowers proposed by the Citizens' Group in a final provision within its norm. We voted in favour of this bill, we share much of its content, but we understood that this amendment to article 324 required autonomous legislation in one's own law for a very simple matter, deadlines and times; time runs, deadlines are in place and cases are in court. We know that this anti-corruption and anti-complainant protection law will have its way. We will see how much, but we have proposed - it was our commitment to the citizenry and we believe that it is shared by the vast majority of the political forces in this House - to put into effect this proposal of law and to reach a consensus to speed it up, to set it in motion so that it reaches the courts as soon as possible and with a simple objective: to untie the hands of the judges and prosecutors of our country so that they can fight economic crime and corruption, which is today one of the most important scandals that is undermining democracy in our country. I will give some data that can be illustrative to understand the importance of ending this article 324. It is true that the proposed law - I repeat - of the Citizens Group proposes another new wording, but with article 779 of the Criminal Prosecution Act it is sufficient. The 324 amendment was not necessary, as with the deletion it was sufficient. But let's go to the time that our courts need to do some things. For a simple DNA test, the standard time limit for conducting an instruction is six months. An expert report on money laundering, a tax offence, takes between eight and fourteen months, precisely because of the collapse of the investigation and money-laundering units. A patrimonial investigation of a corporate network, a year. It takes nine to twelve months for international police cooperation to obtain data in tax havens or in other European countries or globally. We face serious difficulties for judges and prosecutors to carry out their work. Why do we not adopt an agreement among all political forces to get this change out before the time comes when cases run the risk of ending up in the trash, in a situation of impunity? The situation of impunity undermines the most basic principles of a rule of law. The president of the government said that the one who makes it pays... If he comes to trial, because if the time lapses, if there is no time in the investigation, if the necessary evidence is not gathered during the investigation, it is difficult for him to pay it. This has been the overall strategy that since the PP itself has been implemented to achieve impunity for the widespread looting of public institutions. [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, we are not going to solve all the problems with this amendment. We are fully aware that more means are still needed in the courts, more means in the prosecution, more means for the State Security Forces and Bodies to investigate and carry out their work. But we find that this reform, which reduced deadlines and tied up judges and prosecutors with their hands, did not at the same time provide the means for the investigation and investigation of cases. There was no other way to instruct because the goal was, without a doubt, the same objective that we met in the face of the requirements of Judge Servini asking them to hand over to the criminals of the humanity who are hiding on the boards of directors of the companies of IBEX, such as Martín Villa. [[Applauds]] I'm going to give you a couple of cases, the Gürtel case, five years under investigation, and the Noos case, fifty-two months. With the application of this law we would not have the possibility that there could be trial in these cases. It is 90 billion euros that our people are playing, 90 billion euros a year is the cost of corruption in our country, and the measures of the PP government have been clear. Since 2013, the director of the Tax Agency is the one who appoints experts to carry out expert tests in the courts that point out who are the ones who have to make those reports, and then we find some surprising expert reports in cases where they say that false invoices can be deducted. I urge you to read the cause of the Noos case, which is particularly illustrative in this regard. We believe that it is time to address a debate on impunity, on the fight against corruption, but at the same time we must find points of connection between the political forces of this House. We must agree with simple things, with simple agreements that can reach the courts as soon as possible. It's not our idea. Most of the ideas that we and we bring here are not ours, and we don't care, we have no mood to get the copyright of any of our proposals. I would like to quote some of the organizations that have defended the repeal of this article: Judges for Democracy; the Francisco de Vitoria Association of Judges; the Independent Judicial Forum; the Prosecutors' Association; the Progressive Union of Prosecutors. The Independent Professional Association of Prosecutors has requested the abolition of this law. The Professional Association of the Magistracy itself has already requested the modification; 1000 prosecutors, of the 2500, manifested themselves in similar terms. There were 650,000 cases opened in our country in 2016. What's going to happen to those causes? Much of the responsibility we have in this House among all political forces. When we passed that bill, we seemed to have some consensus. We propose that we go to something concrete, to the Gordian knot of the fight against corruption and, fundamentally, to give a message to our judges, our prosecutors and the State Security Forces and Corpses, to tell them that this House supports them in the fight against economic plots and against corruption in defense of popular sovereignty. That is the message that we and we believe must be given on a day like today. [[Applauds]] It is possible, and we must prove it, that the political forces of this country, which have different visions, agree to defend the rule of law and democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the fixing of positions, first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is proposed to repeal the maximum time limit for the investigation which was only two years ago contained in the new article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which meant setting limits to the duration of the investigation phase of the proceedings, establishing a general time limit of six months and a special one of eighteen months for investigations expressly declared complex. That was a step designed and elaborated to speed up justice, avoiding undue delays; while during the legislative process it was recognized that it is not only a matter of setting time limits for proceedings, but also of having sufficient human and material resources in our courts to facilitate it. It seems to us at the Forum that, in fact, the lack of resources in the judicial establishments and offices must be corrected, but it was not too much at the legislative level to make progress in strengthening the procedural guarantees of the persons investigated and in promoting democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption. It is important to note that in 2015 a better law was drafted that increased guarantees for citizens by setting deadlines for education to be shortened over time and not extended. It should also be noted that one of the rights protected by the European Convention on Human Rights is the right to a reasonable period of time in criminal proceedings, articles 5 and 6. Thanks to the 2015 amendment, more than three hundred thousand non-term cases have been reviewed and many issues have been corrected, the processing of which was very slow. Finally, if today, just seventeen months later, we propose the repeal of Article 324 with its eight points, some with numerous paragraphs, it would be a step backwards with which we do not agree. A law on the relevance of this, relating to criminal prosecution, the modification of one of the oldest rules of our legal system, dating from 1882, deserves better treatment by these General Courts than that of the broom. In short, give greater means to judicial bodies and, if necessary, clarify the dark aspects of the new regulation, but in no way is a step backwards in the protection of fundamental rights desirable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, legal certainty is a fundamental value of our system, and this principle should appear in each and every one of the rules that make up it; and especially it should also appear in such an important rule as is Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which is a precept on something that is as important, as it is injundia, as it is in criminal investigation. The Criminal Prosecution Act is a fossil mineral. At some point - soon - in this House we should be dealing with a reform, but what is now before us is something simple: the repeal of Article 324, which is a cluster of inconsistencies. This article sets out a general period of six months for the duration of the investigation, which may be extended if a complex investigation is declared, a declaration which may only be requested by the prosecutor's office, not by others. Here we have a first problem, and it is that the prosecutor's office is given an exorbitant power when it is not yet clear what the same situation is going to have in the investigation, an issue that is still under discussion and is totally open. The second problem is that for complex instruction to be declared, it is necessary to rely on a series of alleged exceptions, which, given the evolution of the current criminology in our country, more than exceptions are rules, and to the hemerotecas I refer myself to. The mere passage of the maximum time limits does not give rise to an archive of proceedings if the circumstances provided for in articles 637 or 641 of the said Act do not exist, that is, if we are not in the event of a stay. This is said in Article 324(8), which seems to correct everything that has been said in the previous seven paragraphs, and of course, this article has generated a lot of literature. What does this article mean? Here it has already begun to talk about whether one should distinguish between specific periods of mandatory compliance and inappropriate periods that are only indicative, so that article 324 would be something similar to article 434 of the Civil Prosecution Act, which states that judgements must be handed down in twenty days, something that everyone knows is taken for the benefit of inventory. It is also said that article 324.8 should be interpreted as requiring the passage of time limits to close the instruction in error and to refer the orders to oral trial, even though the instruction is incomplete. In short, we have a situation that causes great insecurity and, therefore, in Compromís we will support the consideration of this proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u26	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to Mrs Ciuró i Buldó for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. From the Democratic Party we will give our support to the repeal of Article 324. We have already said in his day that it is good for us to try to speed up justice and the deadlines for responding to disputes. We feel that there is even a time limit for investigation, but we do not think that these measures should be taken without providing additional means and resources for the instructions of prosecutors and judges, which was not foreseen on the day this amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act was passed, at the request of the People's Party, in the X Legislature. Right now we have extremely short deadlines that may lead to the failure to complete the instructions and therefore the dismissal of the causes is decreed. This is a lot of legal uncertainty and, worse, lack of judicial protection in the proceedings in which it should be, which is detrimental to the rule of law. The order between the eyebrow and the eyebrow of the current minister to place the instruction in the hands of the prosecutor has not just found the necessary support. I would dare to say that, as is the legal situation in Spain, establishing that the prosecution is the only investigating body is a measure that goes against what currently governs, and is that the investigation is eminently starring the judge. It therefore seemed logical to us at the time that, while the prosecutor's office should be given powers of investigation, the judge, as the protagonist of the investigation, should also be empowered to request an extension of the time limits when complex cases were involved. This was not so, the judge was excluded and in the end we have found that due to the change of majorities this House will surely reverse the entry into force of Article 324. Therefore, legal uncertainty once again in the criminal process due to the lack of constant capacity of the People's Party to find agreements by exercising its absolute majority, further harm to justice in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. Mr Legarda has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u29	Thank you very much, President. The reform adopted by Act No. 41/2015 of the Criminal Procedure Act amending section 324 to limit the length of the investigation phase of criminal proceedings is discussed. It should be remembered that this reform was achieved without a minimum parliamentary consensus, only with the absolute majority of the People's Party and with the majority opposition of the justice professionals who predicted exactly what is happening. The reform was done without increasing human and material means and in a poorly endowed and technologicalized justice; in short, deadlines were shortened without increasing the means. Already at that time, there was doubt as to whether investigations of crimes would be completed within the prescribed time frame, particularly in major property offences, fraud, corruption and organized crime. This is now implying, for lack of human and material means, false provisional terminations to not exhaust the maximum time limit, massive declaration of complex causes that are not really so, unfounded accusations, since the archive, except for its general reasons, is not available in articles 637 and 641 of the Criminal Procedure Act, and this means opening the indictment phase without having practiced all the steps for the clarification of the facts, since the steps carried out out out out of time are invalid, as provided for in instruction 515 of the State Attorney General's Office. In short, the Criminal Prosecution Act was reformed without taking into account the actual situation of justice. On the other hand, the extension of investigative proceedings is left to the prosecutor's office, which implies, on the one hand, an incongruity - since, according to the Criminal Procedure Act, the investigation is directed by the investigating judge - and, on the other hand, a disabling of the investigating judge in favour of the prosecutor's office at a time when the dependence of the prosecutor's office is perceived, particularly in cases of corruption or where the Government has a particular political interest. Remember the disapproval of prosecutors in Catalonia for not seeing reasons to instigate the Catalan public office procedure for the 9N non-recognised consultation. For the reasons set out above, we believe that the current section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act should be revised, and the most appropriate framework for such a revision should be, in our view, the subcommission for a pact for justice, in which there is a consensus that the dean Criminal Procedure Act is one of the laws most in need of updating. However, despite that, we also consider that the duration, the time of the instruction, which, let us recall, is an inquisitorial phase of the process, should, in principle, have a limited duration. A bench sentence cannot last for years without limitation, unless we speak of an inquisitorial or police state, which we consider unacceptable in our state of cultural evolution. We cannot ignore the damage to the investigated or accused of a sine die bench sentence. That is why we believe that the State must have limited time to investigate citizens, and that is why the general causes against citizenship are not included in our democratic culture. But in the same way that an instruction cannot have unlimited duration, the fundamental right to a trial without undue delay, which is preached in article 24.2 of the Constitution, cannot be based on deadlines that cannot be complied with and that are systematically derogated from, making good that saying between the legal class that says: Where there is a time limit there is an extension, but it must be based, as we said - and in this there is consensus - on more material and human means and on a better judicial organization. I conclude with some considerations on the proposed law before us. First of all, it does not seem reasonable to us that the proposed law does not propose the existence of any text regulating the duration of the inquisitorial phase of criminal proceedings. If, as proposed, the existing regulation is repealed and no alternative is proposed, the consequence is the implementation of an indefinite period of time to investigate any citizen. This violates, in our view, the principle of legal certainty, article 9.3 of the Constitution, and the fundamental right to a fair trial, article 24.2, and I believe that it would also violate the European Convention on Human Rights with regard to judicial protection, due process and the fundamental rights of the parties. Secondly, there are some errors in the transcription of some rule, which have already been shown to Podemos in the Committee on Justice and which has not been corrected. Thirdly, we are puzzled by the justification of the competitive title given to regulation, nothing more and nothing less than the bases and coordination of the overall planning of economic activity and the bases of the mining and energy regime. I'm finishing up. We will support the proposed text so that, as far as this parliamentary group is able to dispose of, it will be embalmed pending its consideration in the work of the subcommittee set up for a pact for justice. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Republican Left Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u31	In the 10th Legislature, that of the parliamentary roll of the People's Party, the Criminal Prosecution Act was also amended by Law 41/2015 of 5 October 2015 for the speeding up of criminal justice and the strengthening of procedural guarantees. It entered into force on 6 December 2015, obviously also with the reply of the majority of legal professions, from lawyers to judges passing through prosecutors, even though they gave them prominence in this amendment of article 324. This has been a constant in the reforms carried out by the People's Party during the 10th Legislature and especially in everything that affected the administration of justice. With regard to article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, the associations of judges and also those of prosecutors called for the suspension of the entry into force of this provision, speaking on some of the occasions when they held press briefings on the final point law, as it would mean the filing of many of the criminal cases under way. It is obvious or could be understood, from a neutral observer who did not know the People's Party or the dynamics of the Spanish State, that he had initiated the objective pursued by article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act could be considered meritorious and laudable in the sense of avoiding the prolongation in time of the instructions of criminal proceedings, and that such reform sought to guarantee the right to a trial without undue delay and thus fulfilling the constitutional mandate of article 24.2 of the Constitution. Article 324 provides for a general period of six months and a special period of eighteen months. However, time limits are introduced but with multiple exceptions, making the application of this provision more complex. In both cases it is at the request of the prosecutor's office before the end of the deadline and with the hearing of the parties. I mean, he's been given a protagonism that so far - I probably didn't know how to see it - he hadn't had. There is one issue that we should not have missed. The Criminal Prosecution Act already imposed temporary limitations on investigation. Another thing is that they were complied with, since the time limit did not entail any procedural consequences, as did the time limit for sentencing. But it is clear that this wording goes beyond and has been controversial and questioned because it can be considered - and has been interpreted - as a way of limiting the capacity of judges and prosecutors to investigate criminal cases, especially those of greater complexity, such as those that have already been mentioned by other parliamentary spokespersons: those that affect cases of corruption, organized crime, etc. On the other hand, it is questionable and critical that the reforms have not entailed any more personal or economic resources. Failure to comply with the time limits laid down in article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act gives rise to the completion of the investigation - I say this quickly because I do not have time to analyse the article in its full intensity and with its exceptions - which necessarily means that the oral trial is opened, and we must therefore ask ourselves under what conditions the prosecution will be upheld, and therefore - to proceed in this way - infringement of rights both for the investigated or prosecuted person and for the victim of the crime. The legislator of the X Legislature aims to speed up criminal proceedings by amending only the law, obviating that the slowness of judicial proceedings is often determined by the lack of material and personal means, by the instability of the staff and by excessive judicial mobility, among many other issues. An observer other than the Spanish reality could see the reform as laudable and meritorious because the objectives pursued by it - it was said when it was carried out - were no more than trying to guarantee the right to a trial without undue delay; a requirement that is provided for in article 24.2 of the Constitution, as well as in article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. At the same time, the reform should ensure legal certainty arising from the constitutional requirement of article 93, whose guarantors must be all public authorities, including judges and courts. Thus, despite the issues raised by some spokesperson, Esquerra Republicana does consider it necessary to repeal section 324 of the Criminal Prosecution Act. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposal for a law put forward by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u32	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u33	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States on bringing this initiative to plenary today. Apart from buses running around Spain, canutazas, banners, pines with tutorials, raps, virtual censorship motions, performances and various theaters, this is the first initiative that you propose regarding the fight against corruption. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to parliamentary work. [[Applauds]] The only problem that exists - it is a small detail that you have mentioned and do not seem to give it too much importance - is that the repeal of the article that you bring us is already being dealt with in this Parliament. It was included in the proposal for a comprehensive law against corruption and protection of the complainant, from Citizens; that which you criticized so much from the rostrum but then voted in favour. One of its points is precisely this. I thought you had not read the law and, frankly, after Mr Mayor's intervention, I still think so. What I do believe is that they have read today's news that mentioned it; they mentioned this little carelessness they have had. It has been a good attempt to begin, but you say that you prefer to repeal by repealing and without alternative. Don't you think you're wasting the seventy-one seats you have? We could be discussing other initiatives today to improve the lives of citizens. Having said that, I will begin by giving a fact well known to all: corruption - today we had the CIS surveys - remains today the second biggest concern for the Spaniards. That concern of the Spaniards is also a concern of our parliamentary group and if it really was for other groups, we should join forces to work from here, from Parliament, for its eradication. The proposed law we are debating - the repeal of the already famous article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act - is closely linked to the fight against corruption, although this relationship does not seem obvious at first sight. The maximum time limits set by this standard for instruction limit the possibility of dealing with complex causes such as those that usually concern corrupt entremados. Do you remember what most of the associations of judges and prosecutors said at the time - conservative, progressive and independent - that issued a joint communiqué requiring the Ministry of Justice to suspend the entry into force of the reform, stating that it would - I quote textually - lead to impunity for criminal acts that should be punished? Well, the prophecy has been fulfilled: Does the Pasarela case sound familiar to you, Pedro Antonio Sánchez, former president of Murcia, of the People's Party? That was one of the winners for the implementation of this reform. Your case, filed. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with your justice policies you get the most difficult, you get the whole judiciary to join, but that union takes place as a protest against most of the measures you have decided to take. This gives us a bitter feeling: on the one hand, it is gratifying that we are united to the whole judiciary by rebelling against the policies of the government party, because that means that the institution works, and works despite interference, despite the pressures of the executive and, in general, despite you, ladies and gentlemen of my right. But, on the other hand, we are seriously concerned that the People's Party does not stop trying to control a power that should and wants - as it is demonstrating - to be independent. Just read the news, the interferences are getting bigger and really serious. From Citizens we cannot and will not allow certain causes, and especially those of political corruption, to go unpunished. [[Applauds]] The government party has been trying for several years to promote a procedural model in which it is the prosecutor who takes over the entire investigation phase. Every time Mr Catalá talks about the necessary reform of justice, his biggest obsession seems to be that: the prosecutor as an instructor. The model of the prosecutor as an instructor may seem good to us or not, it will be seen, but of course it is not the first concern of legal operators or, in general, of citizens. Look into those CIS surveys that came out today; it's not there. On the subject of this, it is curious to see how all the events are taking place: news that talks about prosecutors and cases of corruption. Today we are told that the Chief Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, Mr. Moix, that prosecutor wanted in his post by an accused of the People's Party, signed a decree trying to remove two prosecutors from the Lezo case, after those two prosecutors put up a battle on the board for not being able to do their job. Is it not that all this reform concerning the investigation of cases by prosecutors is only a concern - obsession already - of the People's Party? Perhaps for you that is the only quick way to connect - by not calling it otherwise - that you see between the Executive and the Judiciary but, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, most prosecutors want to be independent and are rebelling. They also tried to put on this model - or at least part of it - through this article, which will probably be repealed. A little hunk knowing that perhaps you were going to lose the absolute majority, which you finally lost in the next legislatures. As long as the investigation continues in the hands of the judge, it must be this one, not the prosecutor, who concludes it, and it must be done only when he understands that he has fulfilled his purpose, that it is no more than gathering all the necessary evidence to punish the crime and to punish the culprit, something which does not seem to please them in cases affecting his party. We also feel sorry for giving them bad news. Unless the Socialist Group or the Group of the European People's Party join you or block our law, this model you want to introduce is not going to be put in place, at least not for now. If we wanted him to instruct the prosecutor's office, we would need to modify and improve many rules that guarantee the exercise of his functions with complete autonomy, and to this end the system of choice and cessation of the public prosecutor's office is key, among other things. Our justice is bad enough to put patches on it. We must undertake a thorough reform, ensure that independence, modernize it, provide it with the necessary resources and put the computer tools to work, but to work well and not in the sluggish way that has been done so far. You well know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that all this was a very important part of our investiture agreement and that we have tried to reflect it in the budgets, so get on with it, take responsibility and let our judges and our prosecutors work quietly. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u34	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Botella Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u35	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the repeal of the wording given to Article 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act by Law 41/2015 of 5 October was in the first block of initiatives recorded by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on 13 January 2016, and we are therefore glad that the United Group We can now join it and neither will it hurt us to join this initiative because it is a priority and it is a matter of justice. In fact, all the parliamentary groups, with the exception of the People's Party, have already spoken in this regard in the Committee on Justice, and last October we urge the Government - which, by the way, has the ball on its roof since then - to present a bill which more than six months later there is no news; nor is it a novelty. Therefore, I would like to inform you that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour of repealing section 324 of the Criminal Procedure Act, as we did in 2015. The Socialist Group had already voted against the bill because it was a failed reform, because it was contradictory, because it limited rights and guarantees and improvised, and the People's Party had also olympically disregarded the preliminary draft law of the Socialist Government and had no hesitation in patching up the 1882 Act. Now, only a year after that reform came into force is it clear that the good words - to call them in some way - of the People's Party could certainly not be more hypocritical: neither the speeding up of justice nor the strengthening of due process. As the Member of my group, Soraya Rodríguez, pointed out in the Committee on Justice, what justice needs is not a time limit but an increase in resources. Accelerating justice, as the PP wants, at zero economic cost implies sacrifices of fundamental and constitutional rights. As we have now known through the alleged recordings that have been made public by the Lezo case, the problem seems to have already been perfectly identified by the People's Party when former Minister Zaplana told his friend Ignacio González, from former President to former President of the Madrid Community in this case: The problem is in the investigation, Nacho. No one's in charge here. In fact, in the investigation they did not send them, the judges send, for the moment, because the design of the assault on the judiciary by the government party in the last five years aims precisely to have them send less and less: fewer judges, less investments, less material and technological means, less officials, less police and a long time. How long does the collaboration of the Tax Agency take when required? How much any expert evidence? It has been commented by the interveners that the lack of means means that the police and the Civil Guard, as has been said, take an average of two and a half years to test DNA, not to mention how slow and complicated it can be a ministerial circuit for a rogatory commission. Ladies and gentlemen, without means there is no justice, we have been saying that all Members this afternoon and without means it is intended that, at six months' notice, either oral trial is opened at the risk of qualification without solid foundations, or the process is suspended; two ways to the same destination station: impunity. We will only have the prosecutor's office, since at his request the judicial investigation could be declared complex and the time limit extended. The point is that the prosecutor's office, even if impartial, does not enjoy absolute independence from the executive and the successive ministers of justice of the People's Party have managed to compromise the image of the prosecutor's office and subject it to the greatest partisan pressure we have experienced in democracy. What then remains of Title VI, of Article 117 of the Constitution when it says: 'Justice emanates from the people and is administered on behalf of the king by judges and magistrates who are members of the judiciary'? They are great words, ladies and gentlemen, independent, immobile, responsible and subject only to the rule of law. What is left, unfortunately, is the echo of Mr. Zaplana's words: The problem is in the instruction, Nacho. Here, here, no one's in charge. He does not send any of his own, but he sends the investigating judge and the help given was precisely a limitation of the time limits for the exercise of his function, which can be waived at the request of a prosecutor's office which from the People's Party seems to intend to manage at his will. It is a fact the poor legal quality of the 2015 reform is a fact that that procedural reform had a clear material impact, the government's will to cover up the shames of the People's Party being stalked by cases of corruption. It is a fact that as of 1 January 2017 the percentage of complex cases in processing on the total outstanding cases was at the National Court of 43%, where the incidence of Article 324 as noted, is higher by the nature of the facts. It is a fact that all groups have already taken a step forward and achieved a certain consensus to get it repealed. It is a fact that the Minister of Justice has not moved - not even today with the issues we are addressing worthy of being here - a muscle in this subject, as busy as he must be visiting the stage of the Atlético de Madrid and sending SMS to the defendant Mr González and we do not know how many more friends. The question, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, is how society can be governed from its back, how it can be governed by the opposite, and from its back also to the whole world of justice. The implementation of article 324 has begun the path of impunity and no further manipulation is possible. How do we qualify this way of ruling, speaking of justice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Deviation or abuse of power? Authoritarianism or despotism? I agree with the proponents that reversing Article 324 is a question of justice with capital letters. I'm done. Our justice today has a minister at the front with more shame than pride. Ladies and gentlemen, let us repeal this article and give justice the means and independence it requires to do its job. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u36	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we can bring to this House the debate on the maximum deadline for investigation in the Criminal Procedure Act. Mr Mayor, I assure you that the establishment of time limits in criminal investigation was necessary. As you yourself note in your text, the objective was laudable and the start-up has also been done with hundreds of thousands of revised procedures and updated by judges, prosecutors and lawyers of the Administration of Justice in an extraordinary task. Less means, ladies and gentlemen, for justice? No, an increase of 7% for the justice of these budgets, where, by the way, the minister is doing an extraordinary job throughout his mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, you say in the text - I quote literally - that the system of time limits will have a special impact on the most complex instructions, such as those of major property offences, fraud and corruption and organised crime, and with the time limits citizens may fear that no investigation will be carried out. No, ladies and gentlemen, it is just the opposite, because this reform of deadlines falls within the framework of the amendments to the Criminal Code and the Lecrim of the 10th Legislature, which seek to strengthen the fight against corruption and organised crime, and are doing so. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens are seeing that these reforms work, that everyone is being investigated here, that corruption is being fought here, that measures are being taken here as never before, and that there is no impunity for anyone here. For example, the Office of Asset Recovery and Management is already functioning to recover what has been defrauded, so that criminals have to return up to the last euro of what has been stolen. It gives me the feeling that some members of the proposing group want eternal instructions so that they can continue to make their own judgments. If that is so, it would be unacceptable and spurious, because in our country, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, the sentences are handed down by the judges. The sentences are not handed down on a television set, not even in a parliamentary debate; they are handed down by the judges because in our country justice is independent and works. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting without a quarter against corruption, with more than 70 measures that our Government has put in place. Early filing nothing; in-depth investigation. Of impunity nothing; who makes it pay. No interference in justice, ladies and gentlemen; here the professionals, the judges and the prosecutors, who have investigated cases of corruption of all colors and in all territories, certainly increasing the investigations in the last five years of the People's Party government by 300 %. Others can't say the same thing. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand the precautions and doubts of the political groups, but they will agree with me that we all want a swift and effective justice. I assure you that's what the People's Party wants. How many times have we heard judges, prosecutors and citizens say that slow justice is not justice? How many procedures that are eternal and last decades have we seen? I have heard them say that an eternal procedure is not justice. So be consistent and act accordingly. We said that was unfair and improper in the 19th century. What this reform sought was to satisfy the right to a reasonable period of time in the handling of criminal cases, as stated in article 6.1 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the constitutional right to a process without undue delay, as set out in article 24.2 of the Constitution. This was also understood by the governments of the Socialist Party. By the way, it is now surprising that the Socialist Group intervened when those PSOE governments came to present a bill with a deadline for investigation in this House, because, like public administrations and citizens, we have time limits to resolve procedures, so does justice. Thanks to these deadlines the victims have a concrete horizon, a time expectation in which their right will be repaired and the investigated cease to be subjected to endless processes, which on many occasions entail irreparable consequences, because those who have actually committed crimes, ladies and gentlemen, are precisely those who can access to the benefit of their sentence in a procedure with undue delays, which is what we have to avoid. A term is not a file of a cause and goodbye. How will that be, ladies and gentlemen? There is no risk that an investigation period will lead to impunity. Firstly, because what has been limited is the investigation rather than the investigation, since there may be a phase of police investigation or directed by the prosecutor's office prior to the initiation of the judicial procedure itself which has not been temporarily limited in any way. The instruction cannot be confused with the investigation, which is not limited in any case. And yes, Mr Mayor, in your speech you have mixed barbecues with merinas; you have mixed the two things and that is absolutely uncertain. The establishment of time limits has been set in realistic data and it must be borne in mind, Mr Mayoral, ladies and gentlemen, that the rule sets time limits and not terms, which leads to the need for them not to be exhausted, but that, as provided for in the rule, the court will complete the investigation when it understands that it has fulfilled its purpose. Always - this is very important and they have not reported it, ladies and gentlemen - is the guarantee of the investigating judge, always and at all times of this reform. The time limit of 324 is for the investigation and the investigator is the judge, so it is the judge's responsibility to conclude the investigation within the time limit, seeking, when necessary, the procurator's ruling to have more time to investigate. And in the event that the extreme case leads us to the non-request for extension due to material impossibility due to the high number of cases, it will be sufficient for the instructor to issue an order for the conclusion of the summary or an order for the initiation of the abbreviated procedure so that the a posteriori instruction can be reopened by means of a request and a new deadline for the practice of follow-up proceedings, as provided for in the fourth and fifth paragraphs of article 324. There are no arguments, Mr Mayoral, for catharsis. Law 41/2015 is clear. Those who promote the formal request of article 324 to extend the time limits shall be the investigating judge with the constitutional guarantee of the investigating judge. Don't mix other things. There is no limit to extensions if the situation so requires and the judge deems it appropriate. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. It is not a question of repealing it by repealing it. We can't agree with that, let alone when things are working out. We will be happy to invite your ladies and gentlemen to work with us and join the Justice Subcommittee and the working party, as we are doing in the same line as we have agreed with the Citizens Parliamentary Group in our agreement, for an analysis of the effectiveness of the rule this year, for a serious and rigorous analysis. Of course, if anything can be improved, here will be the People's Parliamentary Group to contribute to it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u38	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u39	We move on to the third item on the agenda, on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the effective implementation and development of the Historical Memory Act. Mr Villar has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is bringing to debate this plenary an initiative already taken in the Constitutional Commission, on the recovery of historical memory conceived from a point of view and from a spirit of agreement and, of course, from the inexcusable democratic and moral duty to face the truth about our past. [[The Lord]] Despite the economic benefits, compensations or other measures and recognitions carried out by state and autonomous rules which since 1978 have tried to repair or alleviate the situation of the victims and restore them some elements of their violated dignity, it must be recognized that the path of historical memory has been and continues to be narrow, tortuous, slow and late, with necessary but partial measures and without being framed in a broad, generous and overall vision that goes to the essence. In this it has had much to do with the misunderstanding and the immobile position of the political right when it has been in power and also when it has exercised opposition. Law 52/2007 of 26 December, better known as the Historical Memory Law, promoted by the Socialist Government and supported by all political groups in this House except the People's Parliamentary Group and the Republican Left Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, was a turning point and a fundamental milestone in this path. This law contributed, with extensive and necessary measures, to closing wounds and giving moral recognition, along with some benefits, to those who suffered the harshest and bitterest consequences of the Civil War and the dictatorship. It is not necessary for me to recall it now in detail, but let me stress that it made an express condemnation of Francoism, taking into account what was approved both by the Constitutional Commission of Congress in 2002 and by the Council of Europe in 2006, honoring those who suffered, lost their lives or their freedom and fought for democratic values. The illegitimacy of the courts and bodies that had been formed during the Civil War to impose sentences or sanctions on political, ideological or religious grounds, as well as that of their resolutions, was declared. And, among other measures, the personal declaration of reparation and recognition as a victim of Francoism was established, as was the corresponding and necessary forecast for the location of graves and the exhumation and identification of the disappeared. As the then Prime Vice-President of the Government, María Teresa Fernández de la Vega, said in the debate on this law, there is nothing in it, not a single line, that cannot be supported in its entirety by any Democrat, because each and every one of its articles respond to principles that we can all share, common principles, such as the dignity of people, that this law protects through the establishment of new rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the task of developing public policies of historical memory that was undertaken on the basis of this law during the years of socialist government was, however, deliberately answered, deliberately challenged, until it was abruptly interrupted by the new government of the People's Party. In fact, nothing was done in the X Legislature; the law was in force, but inconceivably emptied of any budget from 2013, when in the socialist budgets of 2011 it was endowed with 6.25 million euros. With the grossest reasoning, an attempt was made to give an appearance of justification, arguing that the law was suspended by the economic crisis. Unbelievable as it may seem, ladies and gentlemen, this was maintained by the then Undersecretary of the Presidency. In other words, it maintained this unheard-of suspensive power of laws at the will of the Government on the day of its appearance in budgets. This situation of non-compliance, this situation of paralysis for more than five years now has to cease. It is urgent to recover all public policies aimed at the final implementation of Law 52/2007 on Historical Memory, and to take all other new measures that develop it. Among other things, we could mention the following: to assume by the public authorities, in collaboration with the associations and with sufficient funding, the task of locating graves and exhumation and identification of the remains of the victims so that they can have a dignified burial and that they can be honored by their families; to promote the creation of DNA banks; to recover and enhance the Office of Victims, to promote the withdrawal of Francoist symbols and monuments; to extend access to Spanish nationality to the groups that have not yet been able to benefit from it; to draw up a census of infrastructures and works carried out with the slave work of reprisals so that their memory is recognized and honored; to carry out the implementation of the report of experts on the future of the Valley of Fall to resign this space, including the exhumation of Franco's remains and their transfer away from the premises; to exclude from any public funding any organization or entity that exalts or defends the figure of the dictator, Nazism, xenophobia or any other discriminatory or vehatory expression of the victims; to promote a European memorial of the truth - as recommended by the fractual observance of the UN - to the issue, to the victims, to study and address the victims's I'm done. The Government has a democratic duty to change its attitude and to be convinced that historical memory is undoubtedly the memory of all; I say so, with capitals: The memory of all. The wounds of the past are healed with more truth. This is the title and subtitle of an excellent and documented book published in 2014 by the Alfonso Perales Foundation, coordinated by the professors Fernando Martínez López and Miguel Gómez Oliver, whose reading I recommend. I appeal to the ability of all your ladies and gentlemen to be at least empathetic with the demands of the dignity of all the victims and their families, so that we can all finally approve this pending subject of our democracy. Memory for truth, memory for dignity, memory for justice and memory for concord. Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Chamber. For the defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group - which will also fix its position at this time - Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, let us move forward with our support for the initiative of your group, the Socialist Group. At the time, we are actively involved in the Historical Memory Act and we feel responsible for article 3 of it, which declares the illegitimacy of the courts that handed down judgements of a political nature, with political burden. But we are also very dissatisfied with the final outcome of the implementation of this article 3, because what was agreed at parliamentary level was that there would be an initiative by prosecutors and court decisions, and this has not happened. New initiatives must be taken, not only through a proposal for a law, but also through legislative reform, so that, as was the case in Germany at the time, it is the Parliament that declares the illegitimacy and nullity of politically-sense sentences handed down during the Civil War and Francoism by the courts. You can tell me, Mr. House, that the Amnesty Act conditions the interpretation of Article 3, but you, in your initiative, also propose the creation of a truth commission, following the recommendation of the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen, facing a truth commission means overcoming the Amnesty Act to go to the bottom, not of the amnesia that involved the Amnesty Act, but of the reparation of the victims of forty years of Francoism and a coup d'état. Our amendment is therefore aimed at declaring the full nullity of judgments handed down on a political basis. I hope that today we can reach an agreement, which must not only be through a proposal for a law but also through a legislative amendment. Nothing more and thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Joint Parliamentary Group too, I have the floor, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u44	Thank you. Pick it up on. It is urgent and necessary to act in the area of historical memory and the abolition of the 1977 Amnesty Act because of its effects on impunity of perpetrators of crimes against humanity; the enactment of a new comprehensive law on historical memory and victims of Francoism, which provides for a commission of truth; the involvement of all institutional levels to act as plaintiffs in defence and support of victims, together with the impetus for the lodging of complaints before international courts; the completion of initiatives for the definitive withdrawal of fascist symbolism; the recovery of victims of fascist uprising. All this requires comprehensive legislation, budget lines and political will, something that has not been seen so far. That is why, even though we think that it is necessary to go far beyond what is proposed, it would be a good starting point for something to be done. Therefore, this initiative will have critical support from us, because even when they had responsibilities they could have done much more. I will give some examples of why such support is critical. It is necessary to declare null and void all sentences handed down by all the courts of the dictatorship; not to study it, to do so. It is not necessary to study the creation of DNA banks, but to decree their creation in the autonomous communities and to finance them between them and the Spanish Government. Together with the reopening of the Victim Support Office, delegations must be opened in the autonomous communities so that they do not have to travel to Madrid. In relation to the Valley of the Fallen, they should transform it into a columbar of dignity, removing the remains of fascists after removing from there the remains of Republicans that can be identified and claimed by their relatives. Similarly, not only do they exclude organisations defending the dictatorship or Franco from aid, but they also act to make them illegal. Therefore, more measures and more forceful. In any case, our support, even if critical, to see if anyone from the opposition or from the Government finally shows the will he has not had so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u46	As always, they cut us time and won't let us talk to the Joint Group about what's on us. But, well, I'm gonna try to narrow my speech down...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u47	One moment, Mrs Sorlí, you are not cut short; you have the same time as all the parliamentary groups and you know that you have to hand it over to them. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u48	In any democratic country - which is what we are going to - the restoration of historical memory should not be a matter of debate forty years after the death of a dictator. Today we should talk about other things, but not historical memory. So if something was done wrong in that untouchable democratic transition, it is precisely to let the executioners camp wide while the victims were silenced. But we're going to 2017. Today we maintain a monarchy imposed by Francisco Franco. Today, we continue to keep with public money the tomb of Franco and Primo de Rivera. Can you imagine that in Germany there was a square dedicated to the SS? That is what happens today in Alicante, where the People's Party decided that the square of Equality was not worthy enough and it was necessary to rename it the Blue Division. But what can we expect from a party that has as its founding president a Francoist minister? What can we expect from a game in which the family legacy of its bench remains the face of the sun? Of course, if Franco raised his head today he would be very proud of you. I would be happy to see how your wishes are maintained and how the People's Alliance, re-founded in the People's Party, preserves your will. So, when you go to vote today, remember the saying: tell me who you're going with and I'll tell you who you are. If you vote yes, you will go with democracy; if you vote no, you will go with fascism. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking very briefly. The Socialist Party puts forward a non-legislative proposal which is not new, since in another format it was also dealt with in the Commission. The Socialist Party proposes sixteen concrete measures which, on the basis of compliance with the Historical Memory Act, should be developed. These are measures that concern a work, first of all, of awareness, of believing in what involves the recovery of the historical memory, the reparation towards the victims, because it is inadmissible the forgetfulness and injustice with which many people have lived without anyone remembering them, without knowing what happened to their loved ones, not knowing if they are in a ditch or a ditch, not knowing whether they were shot or sunk, etc. Last week, the nephew of a missing gudari on the front of Asturias told me that his mother died with the sadness of not knowing what happened to her brother. Fortunately, I gave him the news that the remains of that person had been identified in a pit together with many other Gudaris and could be honored with dignity, with the dignity that every human being deserves. The People's Party has done nothing for this law to develop, but what they're doing is not being fair, hiding in a kind of misunderstood neutrality, a limbo that allows us not to know the truth, not to honor those who defended freedom and democracy. That's what they're doing. And this isn't Grandpa's war, as some leader of yours said sitting in a seat that's out there. My grandfather, Gudari condemned to death, retaliated and victim of Francoism, deserves this and much more, and many grandfathers who fought in the war and were after. As Kirmen Uribe recalls in his novel The time to wake up together, we don't know how our memory is ordered, but there is a space for memory that should never disappear. In Euskadi, the Basque Government has developed this subject on the basis of its powers. International legislation, UN recommendations, international agencies, stress that in the area of victims, response to missing persons should be placed as a top priority. This priority is part of the express, explicit and urgent recommendations made to the Spanish State by both the United Nations working group on enforced or involuntary disappearances and its special rapporteur. Therefore, at least in Euskadi, the Basque plan for the investigation and tracing of graves for the search and identification of missing persons during the Civil War will continue to be developed. This plan has allowed for a total of twenty-nine exhumations over the past few years and the remains of eighty-five bodies have been recovered, and I suppose that will continue with that work. Secondly, and in order to facilitate identification processes, we are going to continue with the creation of something that the Socialist Party also calls for in this non-law proposal, which is the DNA banks, to which will be linked a genetic database and a web search engine for missing persons. This action project focuses on missing persons and focuses on the two central objectives defined for this area. First, to promote the search for the truth of historical memory by unearthing the human remains of those who wanted to be disappeared from the story and, secondly, to offer at least moral reparation to the memory of the victims of Francoism and/or their families. This priority comprises two intertwined projects: the preparation of a report and the promotion of an institutional agreement on the truth of historical memory. The aim is to promote the realization of the right to the truth of historical memory, which belongs both to the victims of Francoism and to society as a whole. There is no doubt that we agree almost entirely with the Socialist Party's proposal, but there are still some outstanding issues which we have tabled in an amendment format and which we have already brought to this House on other occasions. Because today there are still a lot of objects, memories, ikurriñas, etc., that are found in Army museums as if they were a booty of war and that we ask to be returned to their legitimate owners. There are cases in which such objects have even their name and surname, and that cannot remain so. We therefore hope that the Socialist Party will accept these amendments in tribute to all those people who even gave their lives - many were killed, were victims - and to those who have a moral duty to honour. We will therefore support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u52	Socialist ladies and gentlemen, this is a monument to cynicism. Now it turns out they're interested in the Valley of the Fallen, and how come they didn't care about the year 2007? Because then they defeated all the amendments of the United Left, the Initiative, the Republican Left of Catalonia and the Galego Nationalist Block that wanted much more than you now say you want. Moreover, in 2011 they were unable to approve the conclusions of the committee of experts, a committee we had agreed on, and Mr Jáuregui felt that it was not appropriate because, if they were adopted, it might have conditioned the outcome of the elections. And now they're telling us we have to study the sentences. But if the vice president of the government, Fernández de la Vega, committed in Barcelona in 2004, in the Fossar de la Pedrera, together with Pasqual Maragall, president of Catalonia, in the same place where the Spanish Army murdered our president, Lluís Companies, to annul his sentence, and then recognized that it was not possible because the law does not declare the courts illegal, only illegitimate. Consequently, sentences cannot be illegal, they are legal, and as such cannot be annulled. Furthermore, how dare you request that the European Day of the Victims of Fascism be declared on 11 November if you have still refused to recognize the responsibilities of the Spanish State in the deportation of Catalan and Spanish Republicans to the Nazi extermination camps? They have denied it here four times when it is evident that they were deported because of their statelessness, a condition that resulted from the covenants between Himmler and Serrano Suñer. How can you speak of the commission of truth if you do not deny the final, pre-constitutional law, the Amnesty Act of 15 October 1977? And it offends to hear that now there is no need to subsidize the public entities that defended the dictatorship. But if you have always refused even to withdraw the honors, the noble titles granted to franchisors directly involved in the genocide! Moreover, why have not the spoiled assets of natural and legal persons been restored? And now they're talking about reviewing the records regulations when the Ministry of Defense committed to declassifying thousands of documents and they haven't? And hypocrisy, cynicism already reaches the upper stage when they say that plaques must be placed in places where Republicans were subjected to slave labor. You have refused to legislate - and in the law it was not contemplated - that the companies that made great capitalizations with the slave labor of the Republicans - some of them listed on the Stock Exchange - would repair the Republicans. Thyssen did it, Krupp did it, Siemens did it, but the Spanish companies didn't. The ones that built the Valley of the Fallen, Huarte, the companies that built swamps, roads with slave labor... Ah! You say no, you have to put plates on. Well, no. [[Applauds]] And how do you talk about respect for the victims if you had the shame of classifying the victims of Francoism before 1968 and after 1968? Some were repaired economically with one figure and the former with another. I mean, does Julián Grimau, who was assassinated by the dictatorship before 1968, have fewer rights than an anti-Franquist who was murdered or a victim after 1968? What's this nonsense about? Is this respect for the victims? That is why I say to you that Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya is never going to legitimise the Spanish model of impunity, and that is why we have made an amendment - a term, Mr President - that urges the Government to present within six months a real law that, under the doctrine of the United Nations in all that has to do with crimes against humanity, genuinely repairs the victims of Francoism and makes Spanish society homologate with other societies that had the misfortune of suffering fascist pasts and that have metabolised their past. So this, monument to political cynicism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Domènech Sampere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u54	The PNL submitted by the PSOE basically contains - it has some news - a requirement: that there is a law and that this law is complied with. As such, it offers little doubt in that regard. That is to say, there is a law, the Historical Memory Law, which has repeatedly failed and what is being asked here is that it should be complied with, but the doubts arise because from that law, which already had many criticisms at the time, until today it has been ten years, and in those ten years we have found that, beyond the obstructionism of the People's Party, that law had very clear shortcomings. So much so that in the PNL you take as a source of legitimacy the report of the UN rapporteur on Human Rights, a very hard report made in 2014, in which, speaking of the policies of memory that had been carried out so far by both the Government of the People's Party and also in the implementation of the 2007 law, he left no doubt. It said: A State policy on truth has never been established, there is no official information or mechanisms to clarify the truth. Or, going further, he also stated: how Amnesty is used to deny access to justice and to prevent any kind of investigation. I am not going to go into what that report puts forward, which I believe should be discussed in the future, and I am not going to go into it because the Confederal Group is going to put forward initiatives in the future on the Amnesty Act and all those limits that were in the law. In any case, I will point out two specific limitations of this non-law proposal and a more generic one, which I believe is the fundamental problem that we are facing in the development of historical memory policies in this country. The first, by collecting the same report and the specific amendments that we have tabled, is the subject of exhumations. It is enough that the State does not assume the direct responsibility for the exhumations to the crimes against humanity committed during the Francoism, the same approach that was taken by that report of the UN rapporteur, which said: the model established here with exhumations means the privatization of exhumations, which delegates that responsibility to the victims and associations and fuels the indifference of State institutions. That is why we absolutely agree, as 83% of the country's citizens were in 2007 and 2008, that exhumations were a State responsibility. Therefore, the first amendment we believe should be accepted. Second amendment. Nor do we believe it can be assumed that it is no longer possible, once and for all, to annul the political judgments of Francoism, which is also supported in this case, according to the surveys, by a majority of citizens. To say that the political sentences made by the repressive courts of Francoism cannot be annulled and that one cannot do so for a matter of legal certainty is to equate a Fascist State, as was Francoism, as 89% of Spaniards also think, with a rule of law. [[Applauds]] It's an insult to the victims, it's an insult to democratic memory. But let us go beyond these two amendments. There is a substantive problem in the issues that have arisen since the Historical Memory Act. They are merely restorative applications, and as such insufficiently restorative. He said a statement that started this debate on the historical memory, a statement by the Catalan Association of Political Expressions in an act they did in 2006: This is an act of homage to those retaliated by Francoism, that is, an act of homage to the freedom fighters. Francoism was, in fact, one of the most barbaric systems of repression in the 20th century. I'm just going to give you one piece of information so you can understand. We could bring in a lot of them. For every shooting that took place in Fascist Italy in times of peace there were a thousand shootings in times of peace in Francoist Spain. For each person who was interned in a concentration camp in times of peace in Nazi Germany there were thirty Spanish citizens who were interned. It doesn't have a match. Francoism was, together with Nazifascism, one of the most barbaric regimes of the twentieth century, but it was a regime that did not apply barbarism without rationality: it wanted to end the social, cultural and physical base of the republic, it wanted to end the democratic experience that we all had. The only way to recover historical memory, the only way to repair memory, is to declare that they were not only victims, that they were the genetics of our democratic memory, the genetics of our memory of the future, that they were representatives of the best of our country's history. [[Applauds]] This is how a democratic civic memory is built. It's not just reparation, it's truth, justice, and then yes, reparation. Truth, justice, memory of the future, democratic memory. Thank you. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Domènech. I have the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Villegas Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u56	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a proposal for the effective implementation of the Historical Memory Act, and the ideal - some other spokesman has said earlier - would be that today we would not have to be talking about these issues, that today we would not have to be talking about the recognition, reparation and dignification of the memory of the victims of the Civil War and Francoism; that we would not have to be talking about it because it was a matter or that it was already completely solved or that, if things were missing to resolve, the government, the public administrations would be acting normally. In the end the objective of this recognition and of this reparation does not have to be - and it is not - an objective of one or another political party; it is an objective that has to be common to the democratic system and the democratic party system. It should therefore be a consensus objective that was outside the partisan controversy. We should certainly be talking about other proposals for the future and have this already resolved, but this issue is being brought forward because there are still things to be done. Indeed, there are things to be done and we agree with the spirit and purpose of the proposal that the Socialist Group is presenting here today. We will therefore vote in favour if it is voted on in its own terms; we will see what it looks like if there is any negotiation of amendments, in which case we would make the corresponding assessment. We will vote in favour because both you and we and the majority of parties in this parliamentary arch have no problem condemning tyranny - all tyranny - or asking for the recognition of their victims. There are some parties that have more problems and applaud some tyranny and others criticize them, but we in that, like you and other parties in the parliamentary arch, have no problem, we condemn all tyranny and call for the recognition of all victims. [[Applauds]] As I said, we are going to vote in favour, but let me give some consideration to some of the points in the proposal which we think could be improved and which could have been defined differently, particularly in the explanatory statement. I guess one gets a little carried away at the motive show. We are aware that the Socialist Party is at a difficult time and it needs some self-praising, as you do in that explanatory statement, but I think that you have gone a little far, that you have not done everything so well, not even with this law. It is true that you proposed it, but it is also true that it came into force in 2007 and you were ruling until 2011 and in this GNP it is clear that there are many things to be done. Perhaps some of those things that ten years later remain to be done - probably because of the lack of interest of the party that came into power after you, the People's Party, have not been done - in those four years that you ruled with the current law something could have been done. I am talking, for example, about the census of infrastructures and works carried out through slave labor, which is claimed in the law and that perhaps in the four years that you ruled you might have made some progress; of the withdrawal of fascist symbols, in what could perhaps have made more progress in those four years that you were ruling; of reviewing the rules of archives, in what perhaps you could have done more, and of giving a different future to the Valley of the Fallen, in what perhaps you could have done more in those four years as well. In any case, despite the excessive complacency in the explanatory statement, we will vote in favour because we agree with the principles that are upheld in this proposal. We agree to develop policies to recover historical memory; we agree to work with families to locate and identify victims. A great nation has to deal with its dead with dignity, and Spain is a great nation. Therefore, we must treat our dead with dignity, just as the great nations around us do. We are also in favour of the withdrawal of fascist symbols, and we can also share what was proposed by the expert paper on the use of the Valley of the Fallen. You in this proposal only make a couple of references to that, probably to the more media topics that are named in those expert recommendations. They only talk about the fate of the remains of the dictator and José Antonio Primo de Rivera, but also in that text there was a global solution to the Valley of the Fallen, and only that global solution will be the one that can give a definitive solution to this problem. There is a proposal - and I conclude, President - which is the 21st of that same expert text which I would like to recall and which is not in its GNP. It is the one that refers to the need for the broadest consensus. It says: Without the broadest consensus, these recommendations that we propose are unfeasible. We therefore invite all parties to that consensus to address this issue. Memory for the victims, honourable Members, and consensus for memory. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Villegas. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Sánchez-Camacho has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum with a claim and a lament. I believe that this debate today is important. The demand, ladies and gentlemen, is today more than ever the pact of coexistence, the constitutional pact, the pact that we all assume throughout our history. Socialists, you have come up here today looking like you were the ones who held the patrimony of defending the memory of the victims of Francoism, the Civil War and the reprisals by the dictatorship. I must tell you that all the governments in the history of this country have taken measures for the rehabilitation of the victims and for their recognition: from UCD to the Socialist Party and the People's Party. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen? Because in the resolution of the Constitutional Commission of 20 November 2002, we all agreed that there would be no partisan use of what happened in our history and you - here comes the lament, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party - broke it; you broke it with the Historical Memory Act and broke it again today. [[Applauds]] We, ladies and gentlemen, would have liked that constitutional agreement, because, listening to Mrs Sorlí, one, today more than ever, must claim that constitutional pact. Ladies and gentlemen of Compromís, Mrs Sorlí, with speeches like yours, with people like you today in the rostrum attacking my party, we would never have been able to be where we are and that you were a deputy in this democracy thanks to the effort of the transition of millions of Spaniards; that you should know. [[Mrs. Sorlí Fresquet makes negative signs.-Applause]] Moreover, Mr Agirretxea, of the PNV, you spoke about your grandfather and told the People's Party that it was not fair, but my uncle was shot by a firing squad and I have never said it, because all we are here have history, we have family members in our history and what we achieved with the Transition was that it never happened again, that we would not repeat it between us and now you bring this proposal here to say that the government does not comply. [[Rumors]] I have to tell you, Mr. Chamber, that the government does. [[Mr. Villar House speaks words that are not perceived.- Rumours]] Wait, wait, don't anticipate, listen, first listen and then value. The declarations of recognition and personal reparation have been issued 2,400, more than 1,100 with the governments of the People's Party since 2011 and with Minister Catalá more than 800. What's the matter, nothing's been done? Do you know what up-to-date information is being provided to the citizens and relatives of the victims? More than 16,300, Mr. Chamber. Do you also know that the grave map is being updated for exhumation and to give a dignified burial to the reprisals who were shot and to give recognition to the relatives and that more than 45,000 victims have been found? Do you know how many visits you have had from Spanish relatives and citizens? 910 000, almost a million. Therefore, that you go up here to the rostrum to say that this Government has done nothing is an indignity and a falsehood that goes against the constitutional pact; I tell you and I repeat it. [[Applauds]] In addition, gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, you talk about the symbols and what the committee of experts did with the catalogue of signs, very well, this government is fulfilling that legal mandate with respect to signs, and it is doing so with the symbols and monuments that are state-owned, and you know very well that the appropriate recommendations have been given to the autonomic and local governments. I was talking about archives, look, the archives have been digitized: the archives of the General Archive, the archives of the National Archive; the documentary funds of the Valley of the Fallen have been digitized, a census has been carried out so that we have records of the people buried in the Valley of the Falles, more than 33 000 people, of whom 21 400 are already identified. Furthermore, Mr Chamber and Mr Socialists, thanks to the access to information from the French Government, as Mr Tardà said, we have been able to have access to the data of all those Spaniards who died in Nazi concentration camps. That information and the previous one are on the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen, we would be in favour of creating that infrastructure census for those forced and retaliatory jobs that have been done. We would be in favour of the declaration of a day of consensus for the tribute and recognition of the victims, but I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, why the Socialist Party wants to create that day on 11 November and not on 23 August, which is the day of recognition of totalitarian regimes, against those regimes and for the victims of totalitarian regimes of Stalinism and Nazism. Why don't we do that August 23rd for all kinds of fascism? That is what the People's Party wants and that is what we are defending. [[Applauds]] And I still wonder why you don't want to. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you do not have the consensus here, indeed, what you have achieved today - and I am finishing, Mr President - is to return to the past and remain in it, unfortunately. I don't know if you just want to go back to the past or what you want is to constantly look at Podemos. You are at a historic crossroads which is also a crossroads for Spain. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, do not look to the past, look to Spain of the present, of the future, because in the Valley of the Fallen in everything to be done for the exhumation of both Francisco Franco and José Antonio Primo de Rivera you know very well that the recommendations spoke of broad consensus and you have come here today to seek a headline, not to seek the consensus and social support of Spanish society, that is what you have come here to do. And ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, if you want...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u59	Mrs. Sánchez-Camacho, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u60	It's over, Mr. President. ...if you want those who defend tyranny like that of Venezuela to succeed, those who defend that the Transition... don't get nervous... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u61	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u62	If everyone has what they do.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u63	Go finish up, Mrs. Sanchez-Camacho.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u64	If everyone has what they do. You have what you do, of course; don't get nervous, you are. [[Protests.-Applause.]] It is so, ladies and gentlemen, that is so; those who deny the Transition, as some who even denied the role of communism, of Santiago Carrillo in the Transition. If you want them to win, go back to the past, if not, to the present and to the future, which Spain needs and Europe needs. [[Rumors and Protests]] [[The lady]] Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u65	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Villar whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u66	Madam President, we are still considering each of the amendments that have been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u67	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the institutional crisis in Venice. [[File number 162/000396]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u68	We then discuss the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the institutional crisis in Venezuela. For the presentation of the initiative and the defence of the proposed amendment, Mr Martínez-Maillo Toribio has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u69	Good afternoon, President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This is the second time I have appeared before you on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to denounce once again the lack of democracy and the lack of freedom in Venezuela. This is the second time, but despite the fact that some of you do not like us talking about Venezuela, the People's Party will continue to bring to this House initiatives that highlight what is happening today in Venezuela because as democrats we are carrying in our DNA the defense of human rights, freedom and democracy. In addition, Venezuela is a brother country, a friendly country with which we have common historical, cultural and social ties and where there are more than 190,000 Spaniards living. And because there, although some of your ladies and gentlemen defend it as an exemplary democracy, people die on the streets, Venezuelans are killed in peaceful marches or silenced with tear gas, because there unfortunately today the rule of law is an entelequia already denounced by all international organizations. Fourteen years we have been denouncing this situation, more than fifty initiatives. I want to say that at all times we have had the support of the majority of the parliamentary groups to draw through the agreement all the non-law proposals, of all of them, of almost all, because there are some who have continued to maintain their connection with the Venezuelan regime. But we are facing a new opportunity. I ask the Lords of Podemos to break anchors with Venezuela at once, to break ties, to let go of the hand he gave them to eat at the time and instead of being consistent with the Maduro regime, to be consistent with freedom, democracy and the defence of fundamental rights. [[Applauds]] My group tabled this non-legislative proposal precisely because the powers of the National Assembly had been usurped by the Supreme Court. Imagine if this happens exactly here, in Spain, that the National Assembly is completely empty of powers. It was international pressure and also pressure from within that forced Maduro's finger to tell the Supreme Court to change its decision. But since then the situation has become even more complicated: there are 40 people who have died, 1400 arrested and 60 imprisoned after peaceful demonstrations demanding freedom and justice. But the thing, of course, did not remain so, Mr. Maduro, who did not get that self-attack by changing what the National Assembly was, has made another decision that is to convene a Constituent Assembly, which is the last self-attack of many others that he will surely try to consolidate this authoritarian regime through a twisting interpretation of article 347 of the Constitution, and will constitute a Constituent Assembly with five hundred constituents. Frankly, we do not know whether among the five hundred will be the cow to which Mr Maduro spoke quietly the other day, but what is evident is that he will be plagued with lambs at the service of the Venezuelan regime and will not be a clean Constituent Assembly to make decisions. [[Applauds]] Nicolás Maduro has been, like chavismo, 18 years twisting the functioning of the institutions and some of you supporting him. We have to go back to the overwhelming electoral victory in the National Assembly on 7 December, an election that the regime never accepted. In fact, before the establishment of the Supreme Court, a key decision was taken, which was to change and appoint thirteen judges and twenty-one alternates to the Supreme Court. With this he managed to challenge three deputies from Amazon with whom a qualified two-thirds majority was obtained in the National Assembly. The revocation was annulled by that Supreme Court, the regional elections to be held in 2016 were annulled and opposition leaders, including Mr. Capriles, have been disqualified by that Supreme Court. In short, ladies and gentlemen, each and every one of these decisions has been aimed at creating a totalitarian regime without separation of powers and, by the way, Lords of Podemos, this is a justice at the service of authoritarian political power in Venezuela, not elsewhere, there in Venezuela, that is what we really have to denounce. [[Applauds]] And we have not denounced it alone, all the international bodies have denounced it, there is none left, Amnesty International - but do they have some respect precisely for these decisions that are made by international bodies?-, the OAS, a multitude of governments, such as the United States, Europeans and Americans. But not only is there an institutional crisis, there is also a crisis that is certainly humanitarian. Venezuela is bleeding, there is shortages and medicines are not coming. It is important to create that humanitarian channel that brings medicines to Venezuela. In June, the members of the People's Party were in the 'A Medicine for Venezuela' campaign; we were almost all, we were always missing exactly the same. By the way, there was Jon Goikoetxea, here in Madrid, at the Puerta del Sol, a person who on August 19 was unjustly arrested and remains in prison. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to talk about political prisoners and it seems a lie that in the 21st century we must continue to call for democracy and freedom for those who have been arrested solely for committing the crime of thinking differently from what Mr Maduro thinks. [[Applauds]] That is why today we want to ask for freedom for Leopoldo López, for Antonio Ledezma and for 170 people who are in prison precisely for thinking differently. The Spanish - I am finishing, Madam President - cannot look elsewhere. No form of repression can count on complicacy or complicit observance, even if we are many kilometers away. Today is a good time for them to speak clearly, without the subterfuges or ambiguities of previous occasions. It is in the DNA of all democrats to defend freedom, just as we have to continue to believe in dialogue, but not as a pretext to delay the process or to divide the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no excuse for not supporting this non-legislative proposal. There is only one: to consider that in Venezuela there is an exemplary democracy, as Mr. Iglesias said in March 2013 on Venezuelan television. If we do not agree that Venezuela is an exemplary democracy, as we believe it is a dictatorship, we must continue to support freedom, democracy and fundamental rights in Spain and also, logically, in Venezuela. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u70	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Tardà i Coma is speaking by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u71	From cynicism to hypocrisy. Do you criticize the separation of powers and do you know that the World Economic Forum places Spain in place 72, after Botswana and Saudi Arabia, in all that concerns judicial independence? They denounce the institutional crisis in Venezuela, you who manipulated, manipulated and manipulated, unless we democratically eject them, the Constitutional Court, corrupted in its functions as a partyist, because you know that you have a card, a card from the People's Party, judges of the Constitutional Court that you manipulate. And they say that... [[Words withdrawn in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber]] Do you dare say that there is no democracy in Venezuela? They speak of a lack of dialogue in Venezuela, but if you are harassing the people of Catalonia! You disable, fine and threaten with prison the representatives of the people of Catalonia, the president of the Parliament of Catalonia. They do not know what respect for the democratic mandate of the people of Catalonia is and they want to teach the world and the people of Venezuela about democracy! They're talking about reconciliation. And how is it that in its text there does not appear even a minimum of solidarity with the victims of the Guarimbas? Or are there first and second victims? In any case, we should regret all the victims, but you do not, you act as you have always done. They talk about human rights, so why do they sell weapons to Saudi Arabia? Why do they sell weapons to States that systematically violate human rights? You can sell weapons to the satraps; instead, you are very critical with the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. If they were honest, if they were really moved by solidarity, by esteem, by fraternity with the people of Venezuela, apart from ideologies, they would compromise, for example, with the will of Unasur's dialogue, with the will expressed by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero or Pope Francis. Yes, yes, you would be interested in having a constructive attitude respecting the legitimacy of the government of the republic, because the National Assembly, where the correlation of forces is not chavista, was elected with the same law with which President Maduro was elected; then the conditions are the same for all. Do not be hypocritical or cynical and accept our amendment. You should have a constructive attitude towards all the wills that exist to help - help - from fraternity to the Venezuelan people to get out of the crisis in which they are. This is our desire, that the Venezuelan people find a civic, peaceful and democratic way to solve their problems. I am Catalan and not Venezuelan, but we understand that perhaps the convening of the Constituent Assembly can be a good solution. By the way, why have they not said here that the Constituent Assembly is a remedy that contemplates the Constitution of the Republic? Why don't you say it? Why do they not say that the call made by the President of the Republic of a Constituent Assembly is part of the constitutional text? Because basically you are interested in making believe that the Republic of Venezuela is a dictatorial state. [[A Member of Parliament: It is.-Rumores]] The Republic of Venezuela has problems as there are problems around the world; and if not, you should look in the mirror. I repeat that if you had a fraternal will to collaborate, you would forget demagogy and hatred and send messages of help, fraternity and collaboration with the people of Venezuela, apart from ideologies and respecting the legitimacy of their institutions. Less demagogy and, above all, rather than hatred, fraternity. Instead of hate, fraternity. Instead of hate, fraternity. I don't hate it, fraternity does. [[Applauds.-Mr. Hernando Fraile asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u72	Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u73	Madam President, the spokesman for the Republican Left has made accusations calling my group the most corrupt party in Europe. [[Rumors and Protests]] It is clear that this is a very clear reference to Article 71.3. It is not only a disregard for a group, but it is simply a false and even criminal and slanderous accusation. [[Rumors and Protests]] Therefore, Madam President, out of respect for all the members of my party, who are absolutely decent people, and out of respect for the dignity of this House - even if Mr Tardà does not respect himself - I would ask you not to include those words and that infamy in the Journal of Sessions. [[Rumors and Protests]] [[Mr Tardà i Coma asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u75	I am willing to correct and make things clearer. I would have had to say that it is the political party in Europe that has the most judicial cases opened for corruption. [[Applauds]] I'll take that back. I admit I should have said this and not the other. I agree to correct that. [[Laughs and applause.-Mr. Hernando Fraile asks for the word]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u76	Your Honor, you don't have the floor. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: It's a lie what Mr. Tardà has said]] Your Honor, you have asked for an article of the Rules of Procedure to disappear from the Journal of Sessions, because you understand that it affects the dignity of a parliamentary group. Mr Tardà had time to respond and said what he said. I will no longer give the floor and the debate will continue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-Mr.Hernando Fraile: But it's a lie.]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Gutiérrez Limones has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the worst fears that human beings can experience is not being able to control their own destiny. The battle of civilization has focused precisely on this, on increasing the control that we can individually and collectively exercise over our lives and the society in which we live. Uniting the individual and collective project requires trust in others and institutions. To the extent that we weaken those ties, those ties, with our fellow citizens or with the institutions, the dignity of the human being is seriously threatened. We give ourselves back to a phase of civilization that we consider to be overtaken. The good news, ladies and gentlemen, is that the democracy that some call formal and others as a mere procedure for establishing majorities enjoys so much health that dictators themselves take it out of their arms to public places, they are bound to do so. Any authoritarianism, in the end, is forced to proclaim itself a Democrat. But they all do the same, two things. First, to deprive citizens of what is their status as carriers of rights to relieve them and degrade them to the simple matter of being recipients of favors, with which society at the end is dedicated only to power and with that can no longer claim, can no longer claim what is the collective project. Secondly, preventing citizens from participating in politics by following relations with others, generating mistrust and dynamizing common spaces. That is the dream of some totalitarians: to build a people and destroy the citizens. It is true that in Venezuela all imaginable limits have been exceeded. A rich people, full of friendly people today condemned to hunger and the lack of medicines and essential goods, where violence and lack of security make people live in fear. Paraphrasing the Yugoslav communist Ante Ciliga, we can say that right now in Venezuela Venezuelans are living in a country of disconcerting lies, where human rights are not respected and there are no minimum conditions for peaceful coexistence. It is not true that there is an institutional crisis; institutions are being used to perpetuate themselves in power. That is why the Socialists do not want to remain impassable, to look elsewhere, to show our indifference; we want for the Venezuelans what we want for us, a social and democratic state of law. We have tabled an amendment of amendment accepted by the proposing group in which we seek to really urge the cessation of violence, the release of political prisoners, to really make an electoral calendar, to give competence to the assembly and a humanitarian channel that responds to the situation of Venezuelans. I would also like to address the citizens of Venezuela, here today in the gallery so dignifiedly represented, the social majority, those who very soon we are sure will go out to the Plaza de la Libertad and will do so without grudge and without hatred, knowing that when they look at their land it will not only be that place watered with tears, pain and suffering, but that it will also be the place that together they will have to build in that Venezuela that they deserve. I am sure that there will soon be a freely elected Venezuelan president and that this president, in his inauguration, will make a speech very similar to that made by Nelson Mandela when he took possession of his presidential seat. When he found the workers who had been employed in the previous regime collecting their things to leave, he gathered them and said, "You can leave if you want, you are in your right, if you think from your heart that you cannot work with this government it is better that you walk, but if you really think and fear that for your language, for the color of your skin or simply for having worked for another regime that disqualifies you, I have to tell you that I am here today so that you are not afraid. Today is today and the past is past. That's the victory speech the Venezuelans deserve. I'm done, Madam President. The Spaniards know it very well, as many people do. Each society has found its own way to restore peace and civic harmony. Spain made its own way, which we are proud of, because it sought the most important space and period of peace and prosperity we have had. He opened a new world and got the respect of the world that we had never before had. Venezuela has to find its way and today this House has the opportunity to tell them that they are not alone, that when the time of truth came, when they really needed us, the Spaniards were there the first, helping Venezuelans to freely become owners of their destiny again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u79	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This is a timely and also a bit opportunistic initiative. I say opportunistic because in a second derivative it intends to unmask those who grossly apply two ethical rods of measuring the fulfilment of democratic political standards, one here and another in Venezuela, and because it intends to denounce the magical discourse of some that prevents them from exercising a minimum self-criticism, which would at least make them cure that moral presbyacy that blinds them so much. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we denounce corruption, but there too, and what is good here, respect for the law, the rule of law, freedom, justice, human rights, political pluralism, honesty, cannot be bad there, and vice versa. The fundamental thing of the proposal is to speak and think about the future of Venezuela; a brother country with which we share history, culture, relations, language and, of course, affection. So, before what we're seeing these days there, almost everything hurts. Institutionalized arbitrariness, inequality, hurts us. We are hurt by corruption, the current one, but also by the traditional parties that generated chavista cancer. We are hurt by the civil confrontation, the thugism of a regime that acts more and more harshly to silence its growing weakness. It also hurts us how populism has spread. We're hurting the forty broken lives, the forty dead this week at the hands of the power cops. The systematic persecution of opponents and student leaders, by the way, so courageous, hurts us. That is why we insist on the demand for freedom for Leopoldo López and, with it, we include that of all prisoners of conscience. Ladies and gentlemen, the best thing President Maduro could do is leave. [[Applauds]] A country that is a world energy power cannot be caught in a state of destruction for another minute. It's inconceivable, incomprehensible. It can't be managed worse. That is why today we join the opposition and the Venezuelan people in their just struggle to regain democracy and peace and we will support this proposal of the PP. I'm done, Madam President. In Navarre, every 15th of July, when the Sanfermines finish, the pamplones usually say, "There's less left. For that, less is needed for the end of this authoritarian regime and the doors open in Venezuela to a freer, more smiling and more friendly society, which is as we have always known it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u80	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u81	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about the reality of the situation in Venezuela; let us not take the opportunity to talk about some parliamentary group in the House. Let us talk about democracy, respect for human rights and the violation of democracy. We are talking about how the High Court of Justice of Venezuela has decided to empty content and challenge Parliament's powers. So let's talk about separation of powers. Let's talk about respect for human rights. Let us talk about the criteria of the Organization of American States, which I deserve far more respect than Maduro's response, reincarnation of Chávez, leaving the Organization of American States. If someone says that the electoral system serves to elect a president and to elect a majority in Parliament, exactly this electoral system must be respected, the democratic system must be respected. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard this afternoon that more fraternity is called for. Catalan groups do not like us when the Constitutional Court changes the Statute voted by the ballot box. I do not understand how it can be understood that someone likes the High Court of Justice of Venezuela to change the will and powers of the National Assembly. I agree very much with the proposals of the Group of the European People's Party, but I also welcome and would like to thank Mr Gutiérrez Limones for the position of the Socialist Group. I believe that the lines are clear between dictatorship and totalitarianism, and Venezuela has fallen into totalitarianism, and this can only be met with the unanimous response of the Democrats. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first debate on Venezuela. In a sense, it is also not surprising because it is the country that has the largest number of expats with Spanish nationality; it is a country with strong ties not only socially, but also in economic matters. It is true that it sometimes misses one that we cannot have these debates on equally terrible situations that happen in other countries. Mr. Tardà, as always, hit the hole. The truth is that he has had some very interesting criticisms, but from there to be able to defend Maduro's regime, I think it's going to be an abyss. The regime and what could be the functioning of the Venezuelan Constitution itself, with the differences or agreements that one can have with the text, has ceased to behave in an understandable way and according to what the law itself says. It is not that people from outside, but also people who have been part of the establishment of the Government, of Venezuelan institutions, of the judiciary. The Attorney General of Venezuela, for example, condemned the Supreme's attempt to seek to remove the legislative powers by assuming them, which constituted an obvious constitutional break, and then, at the President's mandate, three days later, revoked his decision. It was not the first time; the Supreme Court had annulled the National Assembly on several occasions declaring it contemptuous. Get your attention. It was also the Supreme Court that prevented its seats from being taken over by four key representatives of the National Assembly, because it deprived the majority of the 2/3 opposition needed to be able to advance some of the mechanisms of the Constitution itself. It has been politically disabled by administrative irregularities, as well in general, to relevant opponents. Seventeen of the twenty-one countries of the OAS Permanent Council have expressed deep concern about the unconstitutional alteration of the democratic order in Venezuela. The Government suspended the local and regional elections scheduled for December 2006 and has prevented the holding of a recall referendum, despite the fulfilment of constitutional requirements. In addition to all this, it is a country that is in the midst of a terrible economic crisis. For those who defend that the regime is acting correctly - the regime itself says so - this is a conspiracy of others. The truth is that today there is no hope of redistribution of wealth in an immensely rich country, with oil reserves even greater than those of Saudi Arabia, but that it has not been able to do things. As soon as the price of oil fell, goodbye, there were no more solutions. Trade has sunk, agriculture has sunk. A country with large oil reserves does not have a refining plant. A conspiracy? There is also an emergency in the field of hospitals and medicine. Why hasn't the same happened in Ecuador or Bolivia, countries ideologically allied with what President Maduro could represent? That didn't happen there. Doesn't the regime have much to do with the decisions made and how it has been doing things, as well as that new elite that has also been enriching, just as previous elites of another ideological sign could have done under this new order? A constituent assembly that is not known how it is to be constituted. The possibility of doing so would be in the Constitution, but what could not be done without the acquiescence of the Venezuelan Parliament was to promote such a process. Military courts to try political prisoners detained in demonstrations - if this is not an emergency regime, they will tell me what it is - dozens of dead. Just as in a previous intervention I said that the atmosphere that was breathing in the streets of Caracas, and that I lived during the elections in which Maduro won, was far from the standards that we would consider valid here, we had to respect the result, the same has to be done with regard to the result that assumed what happened in the National Assembly. The situation was unsustainable and what was intended to be done with regard to the constitutional order was unacceptable. Only two premises are called for in the petitum and in the Socialist Group's amendments: the separation of powers, respect for a democratic system - as has the European Parliament, which has also called for it by the almost unanimity of its members - and the freedom of political prisoners, because there are political prisoners in Venezuela. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u84	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Maura Barandiaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to add excessive drama to the scenario that is unfolding daily before our eyes on social networks or on television screens; it is not necessary, because the situation is already more than dramatic, it is simply unsustainable. It is a situation that worsens day by day - almost 40 deaths -; a claim by the Government to empty the institutions, to replace Parliament; continuing attacks on the rule of law; 167 political prisoners, in addition to those arrested as a result of the latest demonstrations; opening of a new constitutional process that will bring down all the remaining vestiges of democracy in Venezuela; ending a Constitution that was not even the previous of the Chavista regime - which was also not the Constitution of the opposition - to inaugurate - that is clear - a regime based on the pure and harsh dictatorship, the dictatorship of the Soviets, a political oligarchy installed in the looting of the country's only remaining industry, oil. A new Constitution to avoid above all the call to the popular will, to the elections, because it is not willing to recognize its result when it is adverse to it, as has happened after the legislative elections of 2015. Meanwhile, inflation is growing in a superlative form of 550 % in 2016 and expected to rise by 741% for this year, for the time being; depletion is a widespread fact; there are no medicines; people have to stock up on food in the dumpsters. But Venezuelan citizens have already said that they are not willing to allow this state of affairs to continue; they have peacefully invaded the streets and squares of cities to demand a change, and they do so with the courage of the desperate, of those who no longer have anything to lose, they do so in the face of police repression and bullets from Maduro's para-police services. [[Applauds]] It is time to pay a public tribute to this courageous, unbridled, resilient people, who are the Venezuelan people. I would like to express to you our appreciation, that of the Spaniards, through their highest parliamentary representation, which we are doing this afternoon. I want to take advantage of the presence of some Venezuelans, among them Mitzy Capriles de Ledezma, whose husband I had the opportunity to greet two years ago in his house incarceration in Caracas. [[Applauds]] Welcome to this House, which is also yours. A tribute to which all Members of this House should join, including the group or parliamentary groups that never join the causes that they are; that they will never be for justice or freedom, but with the repression and denial of human rights, which are friends of Maduro and of the Bolivarian revolution, the same that they apparently intend to establish in Spain. [[Several Members: Hala!]] In any case, receive or do not receive the solidarity of all the parliamentary groups, it will be the Venezuelans who recover the freedom to which they are entitled, but we have to tell them something else; we have to tell them that they are not alone, that Spain and the European Union are not willing to remain impassable in the face of the very serious and daily deterioration that they are suffering. We must tell them, for example, that we are not prepared to look elsewhere, that we will never look elsewhere at the shame, the violation of human rights, the conduct of an entire people towards the drift of misery. We'll never look the other way. [[Applauds]] Are Spain and the European Union ready to continue the episodes of massacre of the civilian population such as those in Venezuela? Is Spain willing to attend indifferent to what is happening in a brotherly country, linked by history and culture to our country, such as Venezuela? I say this with an example that is already a paradigm: are we willing to accept impassive that the Maduro regime keeps Leopoldo López incommunicado for thirty-five days, adding to the throes and anguish of his family, his followers, the Venezuelan people, the Spanish Democrats all over the world? [[Applauds]] Faced with this catastrophe in which Venezuela has already become, Spain can do two different things, opposite: to look elsewhere, to affirm that it is possible a dialogue that will be used by the Maduro regime only to gain time and consolidate its dictatorship, or to lead an international response in favor of democracy, of the return of freedoms in Venezuela. To lead this international European response...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u86	Mr. Maura, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u87	I'm finishing up, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u88	It's not ending, it has to end now.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u89	We must start by marking distances with this oppressive regime; call for consultations with the oppressor; call for consultations with the ambassador of Spain, as called for Citizens; appeal to the high representative Federica Mogherini and articulate the strongest response to this political, human and social disaster that the Venezuelans are experiencing. Citizens will vote in favour of this non-law proposal of the People's Party, but demand and demand at all times that our diplomacy and our Government step on the right path to fulfilling their ethical and political obligation. From respect for freedoms, from the values we share, from dignity, we understand that there is no other answer. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u90	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Bustinduy Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u91	Thank you very much, President. As a foreign spokesman for my parliamentary group, I have only come up to this rostrum on the initiative of the People's Group to talk about Venezuela, but turning around this fact, I have been thinking about the chronology of this initiative that presents us and this is what I have found. On the night of April 19, Ignacio González was arrested by the Civil Guard, uncovering a monumental plot of corruption in the very heart of power in the Community of Madrid. The next morning, the spokesman for the People's Group in this House put on a tweet that said, "Consterned with the news coming from Venezuela. [[Applauds]] After the revelations and scandals happened, on the 24th there was a remarkable fact, and it is that the same expression of the Community of Madrid, Esperanza Aguirre, was forced to resign. The teletype announcing this news came out about 16:20 in the afternoon. At 5:32 p.m., Mariano Rajoy put on another tweet that said: We are concerned about the situation in a brother country, Venezuela. [[Applauds]] Again and again you repeat the same play, like the bad footballers, who only have one regatta. Today, after four weeks of parliamentary silence, in the midst of an irresistible stork of corruption, the first initiative brought by the People's Group to this House is not to explain or assume responsibilities; it is about Venezuela. They also bring a text drafted in March, out of date, which refers to events that have changed, to decisions that have changed, which does not of course include a single viable proposal to help solve the difficult situation in Venezuela. What they do is improvise an amendment at the last minute to update it, to do the work they have not done before writing a new one, which does not marry with the explanatory statement, but it doesn't matter, because in the smoke machine you draw some facts, put others and the conclusions are always the same. This would be grotesque and a deep lack of respect for this House, but it is also a deep irresponsibility, because the situation in Venezuela is very delicate, with worrying episodes of urban violence, with several institutional crises enquished, with a fracture installed in the heart of society that threatens to become an ungovernable situation. We have been asking the Government of Spain for months to offer to promote the processes of international mediation and dialogue. And what have you done? [[Applauds]] On the contrary, put gasoline in the fire. You have criticized, coming to the insult, the efforts of former President Zapatero rather than contributing to them. By the way, he has also been criticized by members of his own party, with which the situation already comes to the fore. You have done nothing - and you still do not want to - to seek a political, dialogueable, democratic solution to the situation in Venezuela. What you have wanted to do is to use the very grave situation in that country to delegitimize its political opposition. They have done so by protecting batteries from false allegations that have been archived from the first to the last because they do not contain a single gram of truth. They have done so by using the political police of the former Interior Minister to pursue their political opponents by fabricating false reports, without anyone having taken responsibility for it. [[Applauds]] You have done so by accusing us of illegal financing. I wonder if the president of the government will also tweet about Venezuela as he goes out to testify in court about the illegal financing of his party. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] Your disbelief is such that you no longer convince anyone. In fact, they know that and all they want is to make noise and divert attention desperately, but the problem they have is of such magnitude that even that won't work out for them. For what has been published these days, we have known that the brother of Ignacio González used the public company Mercasa, participated by the State Administration, SEPI and the Ministry of Agriculture, to try to bribe Venezuelan officials, illegally obtain inflated public contracts and distribute the money. [[Applauds]] It would be, ladies and gentlemen, an unparalleled outcome that we knew from the investigations that, in the end, it was you who had profited from public funds in Venezuela - who knows if to be financed illegally! - that it was you. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause.- Rumors.- Mr Martínez-Maillo Toribio: A little dignity!]] I finish the timeline. On 23 April, in the middle of this scandal, President Rajoy went on an official visit to Brazil. He went to visit an illegitimate president, who struck a blow to overthrow President Rousseff, voted by millions of Brazilians; a president who is internationally isolated, investigated by multiple cases of corruption linked to the Petrobras scandal, who is violently suppressing the protests of his people while trying to change the Constitution to delay the elections to 2020 and remain in power for four years without going through the ballot box. [[Applauds]] This is their coherence, this is their commitment to democracy and freedoms in Latin America. A few months ago I came up to this rostrum to ask you not to use state policy, foreign policy and the crisis of a brother country for partisan purposes. Today I no longer ask you anything, I just hope that in your irresponsibility and in your sinking you will do as little harm as possible to the country. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, standing.-Rumores.-Mr.Cantó García del Moral: Not a word; what shame]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u92	I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. I ask Mr Martínez-Mallo Toribio whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u93	Madam President, we are negotiating the compromise with the amendments; of course, the will is to reach an agreement. As soon as we have it, we will bring it to the attention of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u94	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u95	We then proceed to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals. First of all, it is appropriate to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group concerning the position of the Government with regard to the situation of the Basque prisoners and prisoners subjected to seriously ill anti-terrorist legislation. [[Mrs. Beitialarrangoitia]] For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u96	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Things have happened since we questioned the Government about sick prisoners. France has released Oier Gómez as soon as it is known that doctors give him a life expectancy of just six months. Although it is a measure that comes late, it will allow you to deal with the disease outside of prison, the only way to try to delay the fatal outcome. And I will not hide from you that for Euskal Herria Bildu the desirable thing would be that he could also die at home in Gasteiz, surrounded by his own. Even so, we appreciate the step taken by France in the case of Oier Gómez. On the other side of the coin is the reply that the Spanish Government has given to the questions that we ask you about the instruction related to the subject and in which it makes it clear that neither humanity nor human rights nor the law move it; on the contrary, the desire for revenge, when it says that they will not release the sick prisoners until they have barely a few weeks of life. And it's that a sentence can deprive you of freedom, but it can't take your life. The prison restricts rights, right, but cannot restrict the dignity of the person, as it seems to be claimed, and the rules established for access to attenuated prison or probation in the case of incurable diseases must be applied without distinction from the crimes committed by the sick prisoner. The right to health is a universal right, which is not limited, as the World Health Organization says, to the right to be healthy, but also means that States, their Governments, must create conditions that allow people to live as healthy as possible. Therefore, it is not the function of the authorities to release sick prisoners to die, but to allow them to have a real chance of receiving treatment respecting the dignity of the person, which in most cases is incompatible with the closed regime of the prison, which only makes their situation worse. And it is that in many cases it is the exceptional living conditions imposed on them that cause and aggravate the situation, because the isolation measures, the continuous transfers, the poor dietary-hygienic assistance, the extremely lengthy procedures for the consultations or the systematic refusal to receive visits from professionals of trust have made certain and rapid diagnoses, first of all, and adequate follow-up of the evolution of the disease, subsequently. If we add to this, in the case of psychological diseases, tensions, fierce control of the closed regime, this becomes an added problem, as this type of pathology requires other treatment and the prison can lead to self-destructive actions, including suicide. And there are too many cases in prison. By following the data that the Government has recently provided to my group, 25 suicides have occurred only in 2016. There are cases in which prisoners have tried it on more than one occasion, such as Aitzol Gogorza, three times, and so far it has been saved thanks to the rapid action of his cellmate, who is 24 hours next to him. This has not prevented him from having to be hospitalized six times in just two months. We could list a long list of prisoners, but it is not the object of this motion to focus on each case but on all of them; all people who have an incurable disease - which is not necessarily terminal - should receive the same treatment, which is recognized on paper but which does not correspond to practice. Only will is needed, there is no rule, law or regulation that allows any prisoner to be deprived of his right to health, no rule says that in order to have access to the attenuated prison or probation a prisoner must be about to die; on the contrary, acting in this way goes against the law, against human rights and against the Mandela rules adopted by the United Nations. More and more voices are calling to move away from an exceptional prison policy, to move to a more secure regime and, in the case of sick prisoners, to resume the implementation of the mechanisms established to enable them to cope with their illness in conditions on the street. The former mayor of Gasteiz, the socialist Patxi Lazcoz, did so a few days ago on the occasion of the last demonstration in favour of the release of sick prisoners in the Alavesa capital. For the sake of justice and humanity, I said, sick people have the right to parole and thus enable the serious illnesses they suffer to be treated outside of prison. The motion before us today gives us the opportunity to move in that direction, to echo that majority demand of society, to make the right to health and dignity prevail with a humanitarian attitude. State and international legislation established sufficient mechanisms for flexible implementation of prison legislation, which had already been implemented on occasion and had been systematically blocked in recent years. The proposed text seeks precisely to unite wills. It's simple, but we understand it's going to be substantial. It is exactly the resolution proposed by the Socialist Party in Gasteiz when the Alavese institutions began to deal with the case of Oier Gómez that I mentioned. This claim has already sought support from all political forces represented in the Basque Autonomous Community, with the exception of the PP. The latter now have an opportunity to begin to understand that it is not for the Government to impose additional punishment on any prisoner, beyond that established by the sentence imposed by the judge, and that if the primary purpose of the prison sentence is to seek reintegration, it can hardly come as a result of the bleeding with his illness. It is appropriate to interpret human rights norms, in accordance with the universal declaration and international treaties that the State itself has ratified, so that decisions to be taken in the future in relation to prisoners suffering from incurable diseases will enable them to apply conditional release or attenuated imprisonment without waiting for them to have an immediate death sentence, a life expectancy of just a few weeks. And let no one delude himself: Euskal Herria Bildu calls for the application of parole absolutely for all sick prisoners, but he will not fail to denounce that in the case of Basque prisoners exceptional legislation is applied with the aim of ensuring that no release occurs, adding new requirements that seek to hinder the way to regain freedom. If there is will, there is no problem in doing so; if there is no release, it is not because there are no cases, but because action is taken to prevent it, precisely. Aitor Gogorza has been requesting this; Ibon Iparaguirre, an AIDS patient with a serious mental illness, served part of his sentence in attenuated prison, and in the case of Txus Martín - to mention another case - it is the prison that keeps him in second grade, the one that holds him in Zaballa because there is a doctor twenty-four hours or that allows him to participate in videoconferencing trials for fear of the consequences that he may have been transferred. In other words, they prevent him from carrying out all the procedures to serve the sentence at home with telematic control, but he is kept in concrete conditions conscious of the gravity and fragility of the situation of this prisoner who suffers from paranoid schizophrenia and has attempted to commit suicide several times. There are only a few cases; unfortunately, there are many more. I'm done. It is time to ask, as has been done in other institutions, also in this Congress of Deputies to the competent Spanish authorities that, in the decisions to be taken in the near future on the prison situation of severely ill prisoners, take into account the existing legislation, both the state and the international, for the release of those who suffer from major diseases, and that can only be done by voting in favour of the motion, not with good words to then vote that not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u97	Thank you very much. As no amendments were tabled, we moved on to position-setting. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u98	Thank you very much, President. We are presented with a motion regarding the situation of prisoners, uniquely of ETA, suffering from very serious illness and incurable suffering for the purpose of their release. For the Basque Nationalist Party this issue must be part of the process for an orderly end to the violence of ETA, which has lasted five decades, and in this context we want and must put first the victims of terrorism, demanding for them justice, reparation and memory. That is why we demand that ETA disappear and acknowledge the damage caused to the victims. But also, as we said before this plenary session in December last year, writing a new page requires properly closing the previous page, both in the orderly end of ETA and in the consequences of its unjustified violence. An orderly end that demands four aspects: from the disappearance of irreversible and unconditional ETA, through a critical reflection on all forms of terrorism and human rights violations, to a commitment of truth, reparation and recognition, as I said, with the victims and the activation of a different prison policy. An ordered end of the cycle of violence is necessary to articulate a shared memory that carries a pedagogy for coexistence, and it is in this context of an ordered end of violence and of the principles of humanity and dignity of the person in whom we stand in favor of the release of prisoners suffering from very serious illness with incurable sufferings. Ladies and gentlemen, the dignity of individuals, recognized in article 10.1 of the Constitution and one of the foundations of Western political culture, is the budget for the denial of inhuman and degrading punishment, as prescribed in article 15.1 of the Constitution, which implies that every convicted person, as a person and his circumstances, demands an adequacy of the amount and quality of the sentence. In the present case, that of prisoners suffering from very serious illness with incurable sufferings, it makes no sense to keep them in prison, since the programming of a rehabilitative or resocializing treatment, which is precisely the end of the sentence, has no purpose for anyone who would only have to leave prison in order to agonize and die; obviously, provided that the release does not pose a risk to public security. Ultimately, only the retributive role of punishment can explain the presence in prison until pre-death. However, the granting of the benefit of release to prisoners with very serious illnesses with incurable suffering links with constitutionally established property and rights, allowing it not to be extended to end-stages of the disease. Property and rights precisely such as respect for the life, physical and moral integrity of the person and the prohibition of inhumane penalties to which it would come if an incurable illness were added to the remuneration or punishment, which would result in an inhumane penalty in its execution, although in abstract and its origin that penalty, before irreversibly illing the prisoner, could be considered humane in our current state of culture. I'm finishing up, President. They must ultimately give priority to humanitarian reasons that enable a terminally ill person to live in the last years, months or days in the most appropriate conditions possible alongside his family and to obtain the best quality of life in those last moments. That is the greatness of a strong society with values, in which they are respected even with those who have not previously respected them, when they took their lives and inflicted harm and violated the fundamental rights and dignity of their victims. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u99	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Spanish Government must and should scrupulously respect the rights of all persons deprived of their liberty, the right to health, physical and mental integrity, education, privacy and the right to relate to their family and social environment without added difficulties or violations of any kind. However, the situation of Basque prisoners subject to anti-terrorist legislation is far from such respect and runs counter to international human rights standards. I would add that, at the present time, it is incomprehensible. To this end, I will read a fragment of a report that Amnesty International produced in February this year on the subject, not two years or three years ago, but this year. Amnesty International has been aware of cases of persons serving sentences in centres located far away from their habitual places of residence. As the European Court of Human Rights has pointed out, this could involve possible interference with the right to family life. The European Court of Human Rights has dealt in recent judgements - recent, not old - with the situation of persons whose sentences are being carried out in prisons away from their habitual places of residence. The European Court of Human Rights has held that interference by such a measure in the right to family life may constitute a violation of article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights. Similarly, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture had already recommended Spain in 1994 and had done so on countless occasions that had been repeated over time, that, for humanitarian and social rehabilitation reasons, it should seek the enforcement of sentences in the region where prisoners had family and social ties. The organization has also documented cases of persons deprived of their liberty who are still awaiting trial in centres far away from their habitual places of residence. This situation, in addition to affecting the right to family life and the right to the presumption of innocence, could constitute an obstacle to the right to defend such persons, as the Special Rapporteur on counter-terrorism has pointed out. This is predicable to the situation that arises in this motion as a result of interpellation. If the situation of Basque prisoners subject to anti-terrorist legislation already violates international human rights standards, in the case of those who are seriously ill, the situation is even worse. They are premeditatedly denied the right to health and to decent health care and to be close to their relatives. The Spanish Government should and should implement the mechanisms provided for in the General Organic Prison Act and respect the rights of prisoners and prisoners. For this reason, Esquerra Republicana will vote in favour of the motion for urgent questioning by EH Bildu's colleagues. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u101	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of EH Bildu, for once we agree with you. For the first time, they take into consideration all prisoners in Spain who are seriously ill and not just Basque prisoners or political prisoners, which is what they commonly call the prisoners of the terrorist band ETA. However, we know that, in essence, what they claim with this motion is that all ETA prisoners who claim to be sick are released, as they have been claiming on countless occasions, as expressed in the explanatory section of their motion and above all as many of their political representatives have claimed this weekend in Vitoria, exactly the same thing, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, with our support they will not succeed, because, ladies and gentlemen of EH Bildu, I inform you that the Citizens' Parliamentary Group will vote against this motion. This is a haircut. They intend to make us believe, in an exercise of solidarity with the rest of the prisoners of Spain, that you wish to release all the prisoners of Spain who are seriously ill because this motion would have more options to prosper. But, even though they are sitting in the seats of this Parliament today, to which they certainly deny all representativeness and legitimacy, we do not forget who they are or where they come from. Look, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, unlike what you are defending, we are in favour of equal treatment, equal treatment between a lord of Valladolid and a lord of Mondragon, equality in access to health between a citizen imprisoned for a crime and another who is not, dignity at the end of a person's life, whether imprisoned or not. But it turns out that this which you are asking to release prisoners with serious illness is already being complied with, in accordance with article 91 of the Criminal Code and article 104.4 of the Prison Rules. I will give you data, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia: 127 prisoners were released in 2010 throughout Spain due to serious illness, 54 in 2011, 58 in 2012, 54 in 2013, 62 in 2014, 55 in 2015 and, as far as the year goes, 42 prisoners. By the way, among these numbers are the dozens of prisoners of ETA who have been released due to illness, almost 30 elderly prisoners since 1996, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. But if these people have been released from prison, it has not been because a parliament or a government has said so, but because it is dictated by medical reports, forensics and finally decreed by a prison watch judge, based only on expert criteria, on professional criteria and not on political criteria. That is the difference between you and us, ma'am, who here defend the rule of law while you only want to pervert it. [[Applauds]] In other words, ladies and gentlemen, these discharges are already being carried out, but on the basis of medical criteria which are strictly established and not on the basis of political criteria, as you claim. Moreover, I have here the circular sent by the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions a month ago to all prisons, which contains the procedure for the issuing of the medical report and the processing of discharge for serious illness with incurable suffering. By the way, when you speak of prisoners who are seriously ill, do you refer to those prisoners who are in the final state of truth or those whose final state lasts more than two years and, in the meantime, we walk from little ones through Mondragon? [[Applauds]] It is at least curious that a parliamentary group such as yourself alludes to the right to life, the right to health or the right to dignity. You speak of the right to receive decent treatment under favourable living conditions and this reminds me of the right to life of the 829 murdered by the criminal gang to which you have so many times defended. [[Applauds]] Tell me, Your Honor, what about the dignity and the right to life of these victims? Have you agreed to present this motion of those who died on their knees with a shot in the back of the head? What about the children who died killed by ETA or those who witnessed the death of their parents? Has there been dignity for those children? What was your right to life, Your Honor? What about a decent and living treatment for so many kidnapped by the criminal gang, sentenced to a death in life and sandwiched a few meters underground? In case they have forgotten, I remind them of the conditions in which they found Mr Ortega Lara, 523 days imprisoned in a 2 square meters zule, isolated from the sunlight, of natural ventilation and without contact with the outside, buried underground and with an unhealthy diet. That is denying dignity to a human being and that does not establish our rule of law. Speaking of Mr. Ortega Lara, his jailer, Mr. Bolinaga, was one of those people released in 2012 for being in terminal cancer. Was that a vengeful attitude of the Spanish State? Do you consider that Mr. Bolinaga was neglected and abandoned? Do you or do you not serve the Spanish state to sick prisoners? Does it make or doesn't it make any difference between ages and not ages? Are the Spanish state and the band of murderers and kidnappers that you have defended morally comparable? Look, gentlemen of Bildu, as we have already reiterated to you on other occasions, Citizens will always be in favour of equal treatment of the law for all citizens. It is precisely for this reason that we have advocated the transfer of prison health to the autonomous communities. If you want to know whether Citizens are in favour of releasing ETA prisoners in a situation of serious illness to die near their relatives, a right that was not granted to their victims, we will support it when it is determined by forensic reports and the prison surveillance judge, but never by a political group and not by a political group like the one you represent. Finally, let me remind all Spaniards that, in one way or another, they have been victims of the terrorist threat that this country has suffered for decades. If we should remember when we talk about justice, life and dignity, it is to all those victims of ETA to whom precisely these values were snatched in the most cowardly way that exists. We shall therefore vote against this motion, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u103	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Alba Goveli has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u104	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go. Let me begin my intervention by reading an appointment: The prison regulations provide for the release of prisoners who are in a situation of serious illness. We understand that the application of this article with broad interpretative criteria, based on generosity and humanitarian principles, is a demand widely supported by much of society. A unification of criteria would be desirable in the future, leading to a standardized and direct application of this measure. With these words, Gesto por la Paz spoke in 1996 about several cases of severely ill ETA prisoners, nothing less than twenty-one years ago. Gestus for Peace had been awarded the Prince of Asturias Prize a couple of years earlier. He justified the release on humanitarian grounds. Their motives are no more than human rights and human rights are the flag of a citizen who believed and believes in democracy. They are our flag, that of all the people who opposed - we opposed - frontally to every attack, kidnapping or threat of ETA. That is why, with the legitimacy of opposing every violent action, whoever committed it, we ask that severely ill prisoners be released. This request has been widely supported by international legislation. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, in article 10.1, provides that every person deprived of his or her liberty shall be treated humanely and with respect for the inherent dignity of the human being. Other United Nations instruments, such as the principles for the protection of all persons subjected to any form of detention or imprisonment, also do so. In fact, Spanish legislation does that too. The Constitution protects the right to health of persons deprived of their liberty through articles 25.2 and 43.1, as well as the Prison Organization Act in article 3.4 or even the Criminal Code. This in articles 80.4 and 91.1 allows for the suspension of any sentence or access to parole in the case of a very serious illness with incurable conditions. The same is true of article 91.3, which advises such measures in the event of a manifest danger to the life of the prisoner. The prison regulations in article 100.4 also prescribe in these cases third-party degrees for humanitarian reasons. It is therefore a question of complying with the law and it is a question of doing so because precisely, unlike those who have used violence, human rights and human dignity cannot be a currency of change. Gesto pour la Paz spoke of generosity and of normalizing the application of these assumptions; their claim remains in force. It is a question of listening to the pacifist movements that planted in front of the violence, of attending to what the Basque society shares mostly, of what the General Council of Spanish Law publishes on its website in the mouth of one of its members: They must prioritize the humanitarian reasons that allow a terminal sick person to live his last years - he says - months or days next to his family or friends. The credibility of the democratic and rule of law state is at stake in this vote. The release of prisoners only two months before their death, as the Ministry of the Interior pointed out a few days ago, is inappropriate for a democratic country in 2017. The two-month period for the release of sick prisoners is not only not humanitarian, it is contrary to the jurisprudence and legislation I have cited above. The new political criterion laid down in Instruction 3/2017 makes something very serious, it replaces the patent danger of death that so far established the law and a court so unsuspecting, such as the National High Court, for the imminent danger of death. There is no need to use the dictionary to realize the difference between one thing and the other. This claim is a first step in changing the current prison policy, in humanizing it and in ensuring that it fulfils the mandate set out in the Constitution itself: social reintegration. Human rights cannot be played with, nor can spectacular actions be taken in the face of hyper-sensitive public opinion. We therefore appeal - a humble and serene appeal - to responsibility and to this proposal. Carmen Hernández, widow of Jesús Mari Pedrosa, Councillor of Durango, killed by ETA, understood this. Carmen said, with the moral height that only the victims have, that it seemed to him a violation of human rights that the prison policy was not flexible to let his home go and end his family days to a person in these conditions, and he referred to an ETA prisoner suffering from cancer. Above all it is essential to know - and with this I conclude - that talking about the rights of sick prisoners is not to speak uniquely and especially of the prisoners of ETA, but on the contrary, it is to make it a much more widespread social problem, it is to speak of the situation of the entire prison population. According to official data collected by Senator Maribel Mora, in 2015 155 people were killed in Spain, 27 more than the previous year. Of these 155 deaths, 92 were due to natural causes, but far from sudden deaths, 59 were due to death in prison hospitals. I mean, these people died because they were sick and yet they didn't die in freedom, they died alone, without being able to say goodbye to their loved ones. None of these prisoners were from ETA. Is this humanitarian? It's not. And as I explained to you, it's not even legal. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Muñoz González has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to defend the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in relation to this motion following an appeal to the Minister of the Interior by EH Bildu, and I will try to do so with the same consistency and rationality with which I went up years ago to defend the position of the then Socialist Government in the face of the attacks he made on the People's Party against the prison policy of the then Socialist Government. That legitimacy of what we then maintained, and today I will maintain, is that which allows me to say today, Mrs Bildu, that there was neither then any reason for those diatribes of the People's Party nor today for its proclamations. The Spanish prison system, which emerged in the Spanish Constitution and the Organic Law 1/1979 - the first of the organic laws adopted after the Constitution -, the General Prison Law, establishes an absolutely guaranteed system in our model. The greatest evidence of the existence of a guarantee model was precisely the murder by the terrorist group Grapo of doctor José Ramón Muñoz Fernández, in Zaragoza, for feeding the members of that terrorist organization who were on hunger strike. He was a professional who had been convicted of conscientious objection to the mandate then made by the prison supervisory judge to deny them the administration of food. This is the Spanish system in relation to prisoners and, therefore, as I say, our position will be the same today, the defence of the constitutional system, because we believe that it is precisely what I will try to explain in the short space of time that I have. The General Penitentiary Act makes it extraordinarily clear what the role of this prison administration is: re-education, reintegration, custody and assistance and assistance to inmates. This relationship of special subjection, which has been established by our Constitutional Court since 1975, between the prison administration and the prisoner is extraordinarily guaranteed because it is all subject to judicial guardianship through the creation of a prison supervisory judge; in the case of prisoners of terrorist organizations, the Central Prison Surveillance Court of the National High Court. This judicial guardianship of the supervisory judge, which is prior in some cases, in the case of probation, and ex post in other cases, through requests, appeals or complaints that may be made by the inmates, is the one that establishes in our Criminal Code something tremendously clear and that it is a strict competence of the prison supervisory judge: and it is that in the case of cases of serious patients with incurable conditions or obvious danger to their life, accredited by medical reports, the judge may authorize conditional release without further processing than that of requiring the prison to report the prognosis. Article 91.3 of the Criminal Code. Therefore, simply by strict compliance with what is laid down in the legislation, it makes no sense to support this motion because it has no object. This application of this article, which is referred to as the principle of humanity in Spanish legislation and which declines in this article which I have read from the Criminal Code, is nothing more or less than the prohibition that our Constitution provides for the application of inhuman or degrading penalties and the value of human dignity, which is the foundation of the political order and social peace, articles 10 and 15 of the Constitution and article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. This principle of humanity, as defined in the laws, is applied irrespective of the gravity of the conduct sanctioned, the entity of the damage caused, which here are irreparable on many occasions, and the purposes pursued by the imposition of the penalty. Regardless of all that. Mrs Bildu, one thing is this and another is the application of 102 of the prison regulations, because in that case the report of the technical team has to be kept, approved by the treatment board and then the determination is, in the case of these prisoners, the central judge of prison supervision of the National High Court. But what is said in article 98 of the Criminal Code is at stake here. In the case of terrorist organizations, of anyone, there must be disengagement from the terrorist organization, abandonment of violence, request for forgiveness of the victims. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, before, now and always, will help to whatever extent and in whatever decision it is to achieve the end of ETA. It will cooperate in this. But the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not going to vote in Parliament on what the national court's prison supervisory judge has to do in this case. It has not done so before, when the People's Party was demanding it from us, nor are we going to do it now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Barreda de los Ríos has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. What is this mockery, Mrs. Beitialarrangoity? What mockery is the approach that you come to us today from this forum of Congress, that approach based on the manipulation of language, the concealment of reality, even with some veiled insidia demanding the release of ETA terrorists? What the fuck is this? Because we knew his preferences; we had no doubt. We need to know how far his obsessions go. And we certainly need to know whether there is any coherence in terms of human rights, justice, humanity, in the approach you come to us here. There is a manipulation of language in almost every sentence, Mrs. Beitialarrangeith. You are not interested in the possibility of release of convicted sick persons in Spain. You have come to that in the motion, but from the text to all your arguments you have other interests; not even those convicted of Basque origin; not even the sick terrorists, no. What you call Basque prisoners are exclusively ETA terrorists. Anyone else convicted in Spain, whether sick or not, of any origin has no interest in you and your group. These ETA terrorists are not subject to exceptional regulations, as you say, but to the same penal and prison regulations as any other terrorist; not to control them, but to hinder control over them of the terrorist organization, whatever its origin and whatever the organization, and you know it well. Therefore, without appealing - as you did a few days ago - to the World Health Organization and other scarecrows, all those convicted in Spain have guaranteed - not limited but guaranteed - their right to health and corresponding health care, as all other convicted - I insist - based all on a principle of humanity with this clause closing the principle of humanity for severely ill prisoners. Manipulation of language and concealment of reality, because, of course, you have continued to air the diseases suffered by imprisoned ETA terrorists, but they hide the treatments, hide the interventions, hide the attention they receive. They demand his release, but they also keep quiet about the requirements that the law requires for this, which none of them currently meet, because the truth is that no ETA terrorist, to this day, imprisoned in Spain, meets the requirements of the law for such release. They call for humanitarian treatment, when in reality what they are trying to say is privileged treatment; that is, they are asking for release without the circumstances provided for in the law to do so. They also call for nothing more and nothing less to be done than by decision of the Government rather than by decision of the courts; they call for us to skip our own legislation. In all his speech he suggests that the law does not apply; and what happens is that the courts actually apply it; they proceed to these discharges when it is appropriate, and I will not repeat the figures because they have already been given, but the data in relation to his speech is certainly overwhelming. And to end, you slide some insidia, some veiled threat; they do so when they claim that there are exceptional actions to prevent release, and that probably has other implications; when they insist that the right to health is denied, nothing more and nothing less; or when they speculate on the responsibility of the Government in case of any fatal outcome in prison. I want to tell him he's all right. All right, gentlemen of Bildu! In Spain, it is the democratic legality that guarantees the right to health of prisoners, terrorists of ETA or not; and all this in accordance with the criminal and penitentiary regulations that are remarkably humanitarian in a State governed by law. This has been, is and will be so even if you do not devote a minute of attention to it. Let me tell you, you lack all credibility on many issues, but especially on this one. It is an established debate that may serve for their particular internal dispute over the control of terrorists sentenced to prison or to set fat-broken positions against those from Podemos or other groups who advance on their electoral barn. You have much in common indeed; to begin with the caradure of asking for release or making speeches about terrorists in Spain as if the law were not applied, while you are unable to demand the freedom of Leopoldo López and other political prisoners in Venezuela. The double measuring rod exposes all of you without any modesty, unfortunately. You lack credibility because you serve only your obsessions. If his speech had any coherence, some referent of justice or democratic conviction would have agreed on other things, on other aspects of reality; for example, to condemn the trajectory of this terrorist of ETA, Azcarate, released twenty-five years ago for incurable illness, who broke the conditions imposed by the judge, Manuela Carmena, for his parole, who has broken them again every time he has been arrested, and who will certainly be tried in the coming days in San Sebastián. You speak of humanity. They fill their mouths talking about humanity. They should remember the victims of ETA, the murdered, the kidnapped, the maimed, the threatened, of so many broken lives, and they do not do so at any time. They should remember the lack of every scruple and all humanity with which the terrorists attacked each of their victims, and the silences and choirs - also the choirs - without a shadow of humanity with which they always accompanied themselves from Herri Batasuna or Batasuna, or whatever they might call themselves, the terrorists. You should remember those choirs very well. I'm finishing up, Madam President. If they really encouraged a humanitarian feeling - some empathy perhaps for the victims - they would require those same terrorists to collaborate with the justice system to clarify the hundreds of murders still to be solved and would also require the unconditional dissolution of ETA, instead of celebrating every propagandistic weapon delivery paripe. That's the difference to be credible, Mrs. Beitialarrangoitis. They lack credibility because they still do not reach democracy, because in respect of rights and freedoms, in democratic values, in humanity, they have been decades behind and they are not going to give us the slightest lesson in this matter to the majority of this House, nor to the People's Party, especially, nor to the Government of Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON GOVERNMENT POLICY WITH REGARD TO THE ADOPTION OF MEASURES FOR THE IMMEDIATE REDUCTION OF AIR CONTAMINATION AND THE REVISION OF THE ENERGY MODEL. [[File number 173/000026]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u109	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group into the government's policy on measures for the immediate reduction of air pollution and the revision of the energy model. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the social and health concerns arising from the poor quality of the air are growing among citizens, a citizen who is becoming increasingly intransigent with the government's inaction on this issue. To solve any problems that are on the political agenda, it is necessary to know first what their causes are. They must be analysed in depth if we are not to act exclusively by putting patches on their consequences. To say that air quality plans must be made without prior agreement on the causes of their pollution and where they should be rectified can prove sterile, but fortunately there are many scientific studies that clearly indicate the origin of the serious pollution situation throughout the civilized world in general and in Europe in particular. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group, once the root of the problem has been defined, we propose through this motion actions in several areas: in the model of mobility, in the energy model, in the rehabilitation of the housing stock, and we also propose actions in the industrial sector. We propose, first of all, to encourage substantial changes in existing mobility patterns in favour of sustainable mobility. It is shown that 70 % of nitrogen dioxide emissions in cities are produced as a result of diesel vehicles, and policies aimed at the use of public transport and electric vehicles should therefore be stepped up. Intensifying means providing budget items that allow a genuine penetration of the electric vehicle into the market. In this regard, we urge the Government to develop a genuine economic incentive plan so that electric vehicles can be purchased at reasonable prices, both for private individuals and for fleet vehicles or professional users. We urge the Government to define a model for the deployment of public-access recharge infrastructure, setting agreed public-recharge infrastructure targets for each level of administration. Also to develop an industrial strategy for investment in research, development and innovation for the development of batteries and electric motors, as well as to agree on measures to reduce traffic in conventional vehicles in cities, such as restrictions on polluting vehicles or the creation of free car parks and priority lanes. We know that the key to the air quality problem is transport, but to make an alternative transport model viable it is essential to make a change in our energy model in line with current and future needs. To this end, a regulation that allows the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency must be promoted immediately. It is urgent to review all those regulations that oppose the growth of clean energies and cogeneration as a key tool for the competitiveness of Spanish industry. Self-consumption regulation needs to be reformed, yes, immediately, to remove the administrative and economic barriers to its development. Moving towards an energy model of decentralized production that puts citizens at the centre of the process of production and consumption of electricity is inevitable and represents the future. On the other hand, it is also essential to implement a realistic and urgent housing rehabilitation plan that achieves zero emissions and makes optimal waste management possible. The Socialist Group proposes to revise the building and rehabilitation standards by applying maximum energy consumption or minimum energy efficiency requirements in buildings and to develop specific financial instruments to support and boost energy service companies that help domestic management and to learn how to save energy in households. We propose to define information measures on the emissions of the equipment we buy and also of the buildings we live in, to renew the housing stock in order to increase its efficiency and to encourage the renovation and reduction of energy consumption of at least 3% of the buildings and public bodies each year. Alongside transport and mobility and energy efficiency in housing, another factor in air pollution in cities is industry. Industry requires real and effective changes in our productive and energy model towards a more sustainable model. This requires encouraging energy vector change and energy efficiency in industry. In this regard, the Government will need to consider financing mechanisms or other supporting instruments to enable industry to make the necessary investments for the transition to another energy model. Furthermore, from the Socialist Group we are proposing not only what should be done in each area but how it can be financed. And we need financial instruments, of course, but that is why we need to develop an environmental tax, which does not exist right now, which brings us closer to the levels of collection on these rates on the European Union average; a tax which is committed to the environment and which, in addition to focusing on energy, also addresses the environmental challenges facing our country, as a way of combating pollution and in favour of air quality. Once these areas of action, concrete actions and funding instruments have been defined, the Government must adopt a new national air plan, including a national air pollution control programme, which provides for a close monitoring of air pollutant emissions and tropospheric ozone precursors and a permanent assessment of the impact of the measures taken. Only in this way will it be possible to comply with Directive 2008/50 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 on air quality and a cleaner atmosphere in Europe. I would appreciate it if the spokesman of the group supporting the Government could explain how the formal infringement procedure for Spain's failure to comply with this directive is going, if the requirement for non-compliance has already been met or not yet because the deadline has already been met. Finally, I would like to remind you that it is up to the Government to ensure the implementation of basic environmental legislation in our country. Since there are different levels of the administration with responsibilities in the fight against pollution, it is necessary to find ways of collaboration, always respecting the constitutional distribution of competences. There's no excuses or delays. They convene the Sectoral Conference on the Environment and, in coordination with the autonomous communities and local authorities, promote the necessary legal changes to act in a harmonized manner with the other competent administrations in the face of these rising pollution episodes. There's no time to waste. Put yourself to it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u111	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca is speaking by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Socialist Group has tabled a very long motion on the revision of the energy model and air pollution, such as that which has recently taken place in the town of Avilés in Asturias. There, on 24 April, there was a toxic cloud as a consequence of an industrial breakdown in a sulfhydric acid production plant that aroused great alarm, with people who needed health care and for whose investigation the corresponding files, including the intervention of the prosecution, have been opened. The Environment Adviser, Mrs Lucio Carrasco's co-rapporteur, has indicated that there is no reason for the alarm, which, said by an accredited environmental fiasco manager, is an added cause for deep concern in Asturias. We have the same concern about the hypocrisy that distils this socialist motion, which demands from the Spanish Government what does not apply where it governs, as is the case with the Autonomous Community of Asturias and the municipalities of Avilés and Corvera. We are, therefore, faced with a parliamentary initiative which fully enters into that of: advice I sell, which I do not have. Precisely in an area in which communities and municipalities have competence and are directly responsible for action on air quality monitoring and control. As a replacement amendment I have tabled one with five points, including something very important for Asturias, for Avilés and for all communities with basic electrointensive industry. We therefore urge the Government to implement the EU guidelines on State aid for environmental and energy protection, which provide for reductions in the tax burden, cost of access, use of transport and distribution networks and incentives for renewable energy for industries with an energy-intensive consumer status, all with the aim of promoting their investments, maintaining and increasing employment and promoting the modernisation of their facilities, which includes, first and foremost, the implementation of progress towards improving industrial sustainability. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u113	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Postius Terrado.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the proposal put to us by the Socialist Group, we believe that it is entirely appropriate, even more so after the European Union's eardrop just two months ago, when it gave the State an ultimatum. It gave us an ultimatum because Europe concluded that the air quality we breathe is not good and in some areas directly harmful to health. Thus, this European report shows that the state has not made any progress in this area, especially after the WHO's infamous 2014 report, which warned that almost thirty-seven cities in the state failed to meet the recommended levels of pollution. Consequently, no one should be surprised that the European Commission now wants to take us to court if there is no forceful and clear action. That is why we are submitting an amendment calling for more annual investments aimed at strengthening, inter alia, the neighbourhood services of large cities, as well as increasing state subsidies for public transport. For all the above reasons, we in the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this motion if our amendment is incorporated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Given the limited time, I would point out that we will support the motion and focus, in the short time available to us, on what has to do with the energy model. It is true that the motion covers many more things, but we believe that the substance, the nuclear of the proposal, lies in the requirement to review the energy model, an energy model that we also suffer in Euskal Herria - here we are no different reality - which is dominated by developmentist and consumerist policies and with irreversible environmental impacts. There's a zero bet on renewables. When you want to make a minimum warning of the defense of renewables, a private court, like the Ciadi, comes out, which you will dedicate next week through your bet on the ZETA, and imposes a fine of 128 million euros. They believe in energy as an element of consumption, as an element of product of purchase and sale. They do not guarantee access to energy for all the citizens of the Spanish State, hence energy poverty, but they do want to export energy to France through combined cycle power plants, through high voltage lines such as Güeñes-Itsaso, which only increase the price of energy by taking the most expensive of them, which is that of gas. All this - I finish already - betting on nuclear and energy recovery through waste. Again production above security of supply and access for all. Probably also the energy model is an example, a mirror of what the Spanish state is today, a state full of revolving doors, where there are people who charge very well, I suppose that for favors lent from politics to large companies, and where corruption also goes through with a lot of normality. For example, in 2015 the Tax Agency denounced different politicians of the People's Party of the Junta de Castilla y León for what they had done with the wind turbines in a contubernium with Iberdrola.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u117	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u118	Thank you, President. Air pollution is one more of the negative dimensions of an economic model, of an exhausted productive and energy model, of a model that is a threat to the health of the planet and also to the health of people. Air pollution is a systematic violation of the right to health. 80% of the European population is exposed to suspended particulate matter levels that exceed WHO recommendations. Some 15 000 premature deaths are reported as a result of air pollution in Spain and EUR 45 billion in costs associated with air pollution also in Spain, according to a report from the World Bank. It is a further consequence of the paradigm of mobility based on the polluting and inefficient private vehicle. In Barcelona 60% of nitrogen dioxide, one of the most dangerous pollutants, is produced by road traffic. The European Commission has repeatedly warned Spain of non-compliance with the obligations of the Air Quality Directive, and now with a possible sanctioning procedure on the table. City councils such as Madrid and Barcelona are promoting plans and measures to deal with this situation, but for these to be more effective it is necessary to promote policies in the autonomous and state spheres. The question is: Is the normative framework and policies implemented so far by the Government of the State effective, efficient and commensurate with the seriousness of the problem? The answer is no, totally no. We are told by the European Commission and it is the data from different studies that we know, which give absolutely scandalous data. The motion put forward by the Socialist Group rightly links the reduction of air pollution with the energy model, but, in our view, it is excessively generic and without a precise timetable for the implementation of these measures, both in the field of pollution and in the field of energy transition. It is not just a question of reviewing the energy model, as the motion says; it is a question of promoting a real transition to a new energy model. That's what this is about. Our amendments seek to clarify and implement these proposals, because the challenge for cities to improve environmental quality is precisely to change the model of mobility, to reduce traffic in polluting vehicles and to promote mobility based on public transport, especially rail. It is essential to increase the financing of public transport. It is a shame what they want to approve in the General Budgets of the State. It is necessary to pass a law on the financing of public transport; to invest in railways, in the vicinity, in regionals and in the rail transport of goods; it is essential to boost the electric car, for example. How are we going to solve the problem if the government does not provide enough momentum to the electric vehicle? Last year only 0.4% of the vehicles sold were electric cars. How are we going to achieve this if rail freight transport is not promoted? As for the energy transition, it is incompatible with this Government; we have seen it with self-consumption and we have seen it with the nuclear issue. There is no energy transition without a housing energy rehabilitation plan. There is no energy transition if self-consumption is not boosted and the sun tax is not repealed at once. There is no energy transition with an auction model as intended within a few days, which favours large groups and does not respond to the international auction model. There is no energy transition if it is oligopoly that sets out the policies that need to be done, such as, for example, in the case of self-consumption and nuclear power. Nor will there be an energy transition because with every regulatory reform, with every hack you make of renewables, these end up being appealed to the international arbitration tribunals. The last award is going to cost us the entire citizen 128 million euros, and it's practically the first. And that's what we're gonna have to pay each other for a bad regulation you guys made. We are in that diabolical spiral: a hack of renewables, bad regulation, they take us to the courts and the government always loses. Therefore, the energy transition is to put an end to this situation and to this Government's sluggishness. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs De Lara Carbó has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion we are debating today, following the Socialist Group's call to the Minister for the Environment on air pollution and the revision of the energy model, is a motion, for many reasons, surprising. It is surprising, ladies and gentlemen, because in its eight points it involves five ministries - Environment, Energy, Development, Industry and Finance - because it aims to be the axis around which the policy of renewable energy and energy efficiency is articulated, obviating the excellent work that the Government is doing in this field; because it urges the ministries to fulfil what they already do, and because it aims to anticipate measures that, as your ladies and gentlemen know, will be contemplated in the new law of climate change and energy transition, announced by President Mariano Rajoy and Minister Tejerina, and in which all the ministries involved are already working together to respond to the European and international commitments made by Spain in the field of energy and climate, undertaken by the ratification of the Paris agreements. It seems, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, that you want to anticipate in some of the aspects envisaged in the future normative text, in a kind of child struggle to reach the first, we do not know what to do. The contributions of the motion to the immediate reduction - as the text says - of air pollution, ladies and gentlemen, are null and void. They simply urge the Government to do what it is already doing: comply with the directive, cooperate with the administrations affected by the breaches of this standard and adopt a new national air quality plan, after the success of the previous one. From my point of view, ladies and gentlemen, this implies that you give an approval with note to the government's air quality policy. On the other hand, and in their usual line, they continue to use fallacies about renewable energies. The current rules, ladies and gentlemen, do not preclude the growth of renewable energies, rather on the contrary. And you know that, because the government has called for an auction for new renewable plants, up to a maximum of 3 000 megawatts, which will enable Spain to achieve the 20% European target by 2020. With this auction, the Government ensures that the new facilities are the most competitive in cost, the most mature in technological development and the cheapest for all consumers. This will prevent the renewable bubble of the years 2007 and 2008, during the Zapatero stage, which we still pay and we will continue to pay all Spaniards in the receipt of light. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the objective we all want. We bet, as it cannot be otherwise, on energy efficiency, as demonstrated by the investment of 220 million from the Energy Efficiency Fund, created with the contributions of energy marketers. IDAE, the Institute for Energy Development and Efficiency, will continue to promote the Energy Efficiency and Savings Plan 2011-2020, which, inter alia, contains measures aimed at promoting the energy rehabilitation of the thermal envelope of existing buildings and improving the energy efficiency of thermal installations in those buildings. We bet, of course, on a sustainable and low-carbon transport model, on the use of public transport, on vehicles powered by alternative energies - also by electric energy but not exclusively by electric energy -. I am sure you are familiar with the Movea Plan, of economic incentives for the purchase of electric vehicles, and the programme of aid for actions of modal change and more efficient use of the means of transport called last March by IDAE. We also bet, ladies and gentlemen, on energy efficiency in building, and the Ministry of Development has developed and forwarded to the European Commission, as an annex within the 2014-2020 National Energy Efficiency Plan, the so-called long-term strategy for energy rehabilitation in the building sector in Spain. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, paragraph 7 of the motion speaks of a specific plan for the transition from an energy model to industry, without being clear what the problem is and what its approach is, which, in our view, would make it more appropriate to strengthen the current lines of aid to industry to encourage investment in energy efficiency. As far as environmental taxation is concerned, my group believes that Spain has made an important effort in recent years to enhance environmental taxation, in line with what the OECD and the European Commission suggest. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that, with all this, the People's Parliamentary Group, in a constructive attitude, has tabled an amendment to the text of the motion, which seeks to harmonize, clarify and bring realism to the text we are discussing. I hope that, following a calm and rigorous reflection, you will study it carefully and I am therefore convinced that you will accept our amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u122	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Over the past decade, climate change has become a major environmental, economic and social challenge. Climate change presents a number of variables that require broad and flexible planning, from the very transversal nature of the impacts of actions, to the need to involve the various actors of society, the breadth of the temporal horizons, as well as the uncertainty associated with those impacts. To combat climate change, it is necessary to move towards a new energy model based on the decolonization of the electricity sector, the electrification of the economy and the increase of energy efficiency. But also in order to achieve this energy transition, a road map with concrete objectives and measures is needed. We understand that for this the Government will have to coordinate with the autonomous communities and more with those, such as ours, which already have competence in this area, legislative development and implementation. In addition, we believe that synergies must be sought to ensure that energy policy is developed in an appropriate, consensual manner and taking into account the needs of each territory. The motion raises a number of issues: on the one hand, compliance with air quality Directive 2008/50 and, on the other, the development of a national air plan. The truth is that we have the perception that when a national plan or a state pact is put forward it serves to delay the solution to a problem over time, sometimes in an attempt to refocus or invade competences. As a demonstration of what happened with these types of plans, we can refer to the Air Plan 2013, which re-examined certain measures that existed in the previous 2011 plan and that have not been implemented; measures that could be considered positive for the improvement of air quality but that have not been implemented. However, such initiatives have been implemented in other autonomous communities. I would like to remind you that the air quality regulations state that at points where limit values are exceeded, action plans must be drawn up to restore the levels of pollutants in the air, and of course in Euskadi a number of action plans have been drawn up by municipality or geographical area. These plans were implemented in the municipalities through corrective actions that each municipality implemented in its local agendas 21, which are specific programs, or which were approved in the municipal plenary. These actions, together with the improvements that have been made in the industry, both with the installation of filters and with the introduction of new technologies, have contributed to the improvement of PM10 levels in recent years. It should also be stressed that reducing greenhouse gas emissions and establishing strategies to adapt to the impacts of climate change has ceased to be perceived as simply a threat to becoming an opportunity to achieve a more competitive economy. In 2011, the European Commission published the road map to a competitive low-carbon economy in 2050, where a number of reduction commitments were adopted. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u123	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u124	It identified as engines of change towards a low-carbon economy the following: innovation and technological development in renewable energy; land management and urban planning to enable optimal management of demand and supply of mobility; the transition to a more efficient and sustainable European transport system based on vehicle efficiency; buildings with virtually zero greenhouse gas emissions, thanks to energy savings and efficiency and renewable energy; and the consolidation of new technologies such as carbon capture and storage. We believe that there must be a competitive, low-carbon and climate-friendly economy, based on the consolidation of a knowledge-based climate change policy, which will enable us to take advantage of the opportunities offered by innovation and technological development in this field as well. And in this regard, the motion proposes various measures which we consider positive and which, of course, are already being carried out in some autonomous communities, such as the Basque region, since we have conceived climate change, as I said earlier, as a niche also of opportunity to achieve a competitive economy. In this regard, we have programmes for the efficient rehabilitation of housing and buildings, energy efficiency initiatives for the application of public buildings and the modernization of electricity networks of polygons and companies, including by encouraging investment in R & D+i in renewable energy. It is true that the transport sector is responsible for poor air quality and is a growing problem, especially in cities. In addition, diesel vehicles are primarily responsible for emissions of nitrogen oxides. That is why we must also try to promote the use of the electric vehicle and, in this regard, I would like to mention that a budgetary agreement adopted between our group and the Government addresses the commitment to include the promotion of the electric vehicle in the Movea Plan, as well as support for the development of the charging infrastructure of this vehicle and the management of electricity demand. We also understand that, sooner or later, the challenge of environmental taxation will have to be addressed, but to do so we will have to study and analyse the tax and public price system and its potential for green taxation, as well as carry out benchmarking studies with green tax systems in comparable regions and countries in order to draw conclusions from their implementation, all of which respect, of course, the tax competences of Euskadi and Navarre. For all that, since we are a little sceptical about the elaboration of national plans, since there are measures that are proposed that are already collected, others that are already being developed in the autonomous communities and others where there is an indefinacy around green taxation, without taking into account tax powers, in principle we will abstain in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u125	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u126	Thank you, Madam President. I will not say anything new from this rostrum if I say that we do not like the People's Party's environmental policy or energy. Having said that, we are surprised, even disturbed, by the motion that the Socialist Group is proposing. I'll explain. It seems to us to be a type of bus, for giving it a name, which a few weeks ago presented us with something similar in matters of disability, social services and dependency. They want to talk a little bit about everything so they don't commit to anything too much. In a transactional, where some elements are accepted, it may vary a little, but it has a good dose of naivety because changing the government's energy and anti-pollution policy with a motion is more difficult than the history of David and Goliath, especially with the government's case to the House with its constant approvals of bills or GNP that they do not like. But there are more contradictions and for me the most important of this tailor's drawer is that there is no self-criticism about how we got here, because there have been People's Party governments, it is true, but there have been Socialist Party governments and we are where we are for the policies of both parties. Of course, air pollution is relevant, which is a constant breach by the Government of Directive 2008/50, by the European Union, and that compliance with the air level is minimal. But, look out, this government is well covered by the big energy companies, the most polluting. The five electrical companies that form the electric oligopoly are the most polluting. Of the top ten pollutants in Spain, five are energy. And with regard to his good intentions, I refer to the test: the promise of an energy model made by his last socialist government, based on renewables, after turning back, culminating with the point of the People's Party. Sixty thousand families have been trapped with unfulfilled promises. The debt to the electrics continues to be one of the serious problems and the energy model is based on this energy model that, with respect to the bus, nor on the back rows, those in which one sings 'how good is the mother superior that takes us on an excursion'... [[Rumors]] Of course, it's the theme of the day. Of course! Well, this higher mother doesn't take us to another energy model. And here we are. The reality today is that for every euro that is subsidized in renewable energy 20 contributions are made to support fossil fuels. Finally, I will tell you what we want: a country with a sustainable, efficient, consumer-friendly energy model; a country committed to responsible consumption, waste reduction; an efficient energy policy that encourages savings and the fight against global warming and climate change; a new country, the Catalan Republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u127	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we intend to vote in favour of the original text, but we want to see the final text. Let us hope that this motion does not become a tailor's drawer in which you try to do everything and, in the end, you end up doing absolutely nothing. The protection of the environment is an indispensable condition for the development and consolidation of the economies and societies of the twenty-first century, and it is not a fact that it is discovering at this time. Citizens believe that environmental protection is a primary objective for present and future generations. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u129	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u130	The European Union has the most ambitious commitment to reducing greenhouse gases, targets for 2020, 2030 and 2050, but much remains to be done. We've said it many times. According to data from the 2016 report on energy and sustainability, in Spain CO2 emissions have increased by 16% and per capita emissions have increased by a similar percentage. In addition, it certifies the deterioration of all emissions indicators in the Spanish energy sector in 2015. I recently said a fact that for me it is alarming and I think it is interesting to repeat it, and it is that the World Health Organization, in the 2016 report, says that 6861 deaths produced in Spain are attributable to air pollution or, which is the same, fifteen deaths per hundred thousand. It is a fact that has to make us reflect on the need to design, as the motion says, a national air plan, of course it does. There is a need to implement and harmonize measures to reduce air pollution emissions, as well as tropospheric ozone precursors. We need to think about transport. No one is surprised when it comes to carpools to see that the major air pollution outbreaks come precisely through transport. There is a need for support for measures to encourage alternative mobility with clean vehicles, but for this purpose national guidelines must be drawn up that are extrapolated to the rest of the administrations, since, if we live in Madrid, one day we will get up knowing that if our registration is odd and we have to enter the city we will stay out because only the pairs will have been authorized that day. Therefore, it is also necessary to take account of the carbon footprint, because given the carbon footprint of buildings and all sectors, we will be able to work more efficiently. In short, energy efficiency and renewables are the ones that will ensure the balance of energy needs and environmental conditions that need to be preserved. We've always said that, the best energy is the energy not consumed. There is a need to work on energy efficiency, develop building regulations that set parameters for efficiency and set an example. Public buildings have to be efficient. A forecast is needed because energy demand will increase with the evolution of society and with the electrification of transport. That is why we believe - it is a good point of the motion - that it is necessary to work to make the industry efficient in cogeneration and in various matters that make it competitive, that it not only has to survive, but that it can actually compete. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we need a state energy pact, an energy transition plan, a climate change law, a national air plan... I am overwhelmed by everything the Government needs, basically because things have not been done right. What's clear is that we need it now. What does that mean? Renewable energies, efficiency, self-consumption, the environment and let us put the batteries to work now. Awareness is necessary and in Citizens we believe that it will not be achieved through creating taxes. Environmental awareness does not come through taxes, but through education and schools talking about the environment and talking about the environment to all our citizens. Besides, Spain can go to the head, but for that we have to believe it. Spain can lead by investing in R+D+i and can technologically lead a green economy. We can teach from the Administration, the citizens and the companies that Spain has a lot to offer to the environment, but that is done with commitment and dedication. For all this, as I have said, we need commitment, will, awareness and, above all, we believe that our environment is the greatest good we have. Therefore, I want to end by telling you that the most important thing is that, in the face of the question of what we want for us and for our environment tomorrow, let us know that if we don't give answers today, we won't get there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u131	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Lucio Carrasco whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u132	We are seeing a transactional that I have presented to all groups, but I still don't know the answer.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-09-CD170509.u133	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight o'clock at night.
