ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the point of order corresponding to the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 14/2017, of 6 October, approving the extraordinary and time-limited reactivation of the programme of professional retraining of persons who exhaust their unemployment protection. To present the royal decree-law, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u2	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me today to present to the House the royal decree-law resulting from the consensus in the social dialogue and with the autonomous communities. He is the third person to be validated in this legislature after having been the subject of an intense process of dialogue, participation and agreement with autonomous communities and social partners. The first of these was the Royal Decree-Law 6/2016 of 23 December of urgent measures to boost the National Youth Guarantee System, which has more than doubled the beneficiaries - today there are 870 000 - and thus favour guidance, training and employment among young people under the age of 30. The second was Royal Decree-Law 7/2017 of 28 April, which extended and amended the activation programme for employment, which allows thousands of job seekers to continue to be protected and facilitated by their inclusion in the labour market. As you know well, one in three who goes through this program gets a job. And thirdly, we present Royal Decree-Law 14/2017 of 6 October, approving the extraordinary and time-limited reactivation of the professional retraining programme for persons who exhaust their unemployment benefit. This royal decree-law has been the result of intense work within the Social Dialogue Bureau of the Employment Shock Plan and also - and I would like to acknowledge this this morning - at the Sectoral Conference on Employment and Labour Affairs. All these measures have been accompanied by other social and labour agreements that they have known since the start of the legislature, such as the fixing of the interprofessional minimum wage for this year 2017, the transposition of the enforcement directive or the recent adoption, unanimously by Congress and the Senate, of the law that improves the protection of self-employed workers. A dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, which has helped to bring forward positions and also to improve proposals so that, from the consensus, we can take action and make progress on employment opportunities and, therefore, on improving the well-being of the Spaniards. On that path we intend today this new validation. A rule that wants to continue to give opportunities to people who need it most, who want and want to return to the labour market as soon as possible through the extension of the Programme for the vocational retraining of people who have exhausted their unemployment protection. It is a programme that has attracted the support of the majority of the House in the previous extensions; a programme, the Preparation Programme, which, as you are well aware, was regulated for the first time in Royal Decree-Law 1/2011 of 11 February, urgent measures to promote the transition to stable employment and the retraining of employed persons; since its inception then, in 2011, it has been renewed on three occasions. It is a programme which, as you know, lasts six months and amounts to 75 % of Iprem in general and 85 % in particular for those who, in addition to being long-term unemployed, have family responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the programme prepares, together with the active income of insertion, the income known as RAI, and the activation programme for employment, complements the protection measures of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security which are additional to the unemployment benefit, in addition to the other benefits provided for in the General Law on Social Security. It is, therefore, a comprehensive protection system with which our country has a great deal of need in the context of economic recovery as in which we are, after a period of long economic and social crisis in Spain. It is a system which, as the spokesmen of the various parliamentary groups in this House have also repeated, must necessarily be geared mainly towards the activation of the unemployed. That is why employment and employment improvement remain the top national priority. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that Spain is experiencing a recovery with economic growth and job creation today. It is true that we have recovered 65% of the jobs that destroyed the crisis as a Spanish society, but it is also true that we have a long way to go because there are more than 3 300 000 Spaniards who want to work, who deserve to work and who have not yet found that job. Therefore, there is not a minute for complacency and what we have to do is continue to give opportunities to the Spaniards who need to return to the labour market. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, last August 15th ended the six-month period for which the so-called "Preparatory Programme" was last extended. Why did it end on August 15th? Because the overall unemployment rate in Spain was below 18% which set the rules as the threshold for automatic renewal of the activation programme. Moreover, as you are also well aware, on 27 July the Constitutional Court's ruling was made in relation to an appeal of unconstitutionality brought by the Basque Government, which states that the Public State Employment Service is not competent to manage the programme on the basis of the competence conferred on it in its first regulation. Since then, ladies and gentlemen, the situation has been discussed with the social partners and with autonomous communities, and it has been noted by all parties - and I would like to point out this in particular - by the autonomous communities and of course by the Government, but also in the framework of the social dialogue with trade unions and employers, the need to avoid avoiding any current element of unemployment coverage and, in turn, we note with the autonomous communities the material impossibility of them immediately managing this Programme. Therefore, it was proposed to the Ministry of Employment and Social Security that, in order to avoid such gaps in protection, an agreement be reached at the sectoral conference for the autonomous communities to entrust the management of this programme for the last time to the Public Service of State Employment on the basis of Article 18(h)(2) of the Employment Act. In this way, in an extraordinary and limited way in time, that is until April 30, 2018, we renew for the last time the Program Prepares. I would like to stress that the agreement was reached unanimously with all the autonomous communities at the sectoral conference on 18 September; it was reached, ladies and gentlemen, with all, without any exception. This will allow us to continue working within the framework of the social dialogue with all the autonomous communities to continue to organize the comprehensive map of unemployment and care benefits, and to achieve the full implementation of the social card, which is a project that was born from the Conference of Presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed to review until 30 April 2018, within the framework of the social dialogue and with the autonomous communities, the various programmes that currently complement the unemployment protection regulated in Title III of the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act, in order to bring them fully into line with the competition framework, in accordance with the recent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, also in order to improve the conditions for the protection of unemployed persons and to make it possible to complement autonomous and State programmes in the terms agreed in the framework of that dialogue process. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from responsibility, and with the commitment of all, continue to promote efficiency, improving social protection and, above all, facilitating the inclusion, which is the main aim, the search for employment, for the opportunities of the Spaniards who still remain unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen, some additional rules in the socio-occupational field of relevance are also included in this royal decree-law. On the one hand, the recovery of the reduction in contributions for persons who provide services in the family home with a dual objective: one, to reduce the burden on families involved in hiring a household employee and, another very important, to ensure that all irregular employment in this sector will flourish and continue to give opportunities to citizens. On the other hand, amendments to the Law on Science, Technology and Innovation to contracts for specified works and services in force. This additional provision seeks to clearly define the scope of the public sector in which the specific rules of this provision of Law 14/2011 of 1 June apply. In other words, define the circumstances in which contracts for specified works or services are permitted in the public sector for a period exceeding three years in the framework of a research project. This amendment solves a problem that mainly affects young scientists and support technicians who have joined research centres with a predoctoral contract or other contractual modalities of aid for the incorporation of doctors or researchers. Ladies and gentlemen, you yourselves, the various parliamentary groups, Socialists, Citizens or Podemos, have presented parliamentary initiatives in the sense proposed in this draft royal decree-law and the trade unions have also expressly communicated it through their representatives on the works committees of these research centres and have support for this measure. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we want the content of the royal decree-law that we discussed this morning, reached the social agreement and the agreement with the autonomous and well-known communities that are in urgent need, to be approved and validated by this House this morning. In particular, and in conclusion, if we want to avoid gaps in protection for the unemployed, those who are long-term unemployed and also have family responsibilities, we should continue to give them opportunities for protection and employment. They are well aware that the Preparatory Programme has given protection to almost one million people, 957,370 since 2011, and has facilitated the integration and incorporation into the labour market of one in three of those who have been through the programme as beneficiaries. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on this path of employment and better employment, which is the great national goal, and until we reach those twenty million people working for the year 2019, when the recovery has reached all the citizens who want and deserve to work, having programmes like the Preparation, which improve the protection and transition from unemployment to employment, is a great opportunity for thousands of Spaniards who need it. I'm done, President. I trust in his commitment and also in responsibility, and I trust that the majority of this House will validate a real decree-law that has this broad support of the autonomous communities and of social dialogue, for the sake of all Spaniards, in particular those who still remain unemployed. They are entitled and also have the guarantee that we will continue to work every day for their opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u3	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the round of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of October the Council of Ministers approved this Royal Decree-Law for the extraordinary and time-limited reactivation of the programme of professional retraining of persons who exhaust their unemployment protection. This is a measure that Forum is going to validate because it gives continuity to the extensions that, since its inception in 2011, are automatically providing aid and recognizing rights to workers who have exhausted the contributory benefit or unemployment benefit. We are talking about more than fifty thousand people who have benefited from them each year; in the case of Asturias, my community of origin, almost one million. This extension of the Preparation Plan is announced as the last, and I hope so because that would mean that we continue on the right path of job creation. It will be in effect for eight and a half months, unlike previous plans that had a six-month duration. In fact, as the Minister for Employment and Social Security explained, the plan was already automatically extended as long as the unemployment rate was above 18%, a threshold which fell in the second quarter of this year. This is good news that adds up to unemployment forecasts of around 15.2 % for 2018. In addition, last summer, the Constitutional Court declared illegal the regulation by centralised management in the Public State Employment Service, which the Government now corrects with this royal decree-law with the incorporation in the additional first provision of measures relating to the competition title that have been negotiated with the autonomous communities to carry out this extension, since it has been very well defined that the active employment policies are of autonomous competence, although an agreement has been reached to assign exceptionally to the Public State Employment Service the functions of granting and paying the accompanying economic aid. The creation of such measures, explained and detailed by Mrs Báñez, was driven in the final stretch of the 10th Legislature, with the socialist government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, a period very critical for the Spanish economy that led to a great labor sangria that dragged millions of Spaniards. At the beginning of 2011, Spain had almost five million unemployed and a rate of over 20% unemployment. Already almost seven years ago, during the debate in the Congress of Deputies on this royal decree-law, there were warnings of unconstitutionality by some spokesmen. The 2011 was one of the last legislative packages of the Socialist Government in relation to employment and was validated in extremis by recruiting parliamentary support and abstention from the desperate. Today, in addition to validating this extraordinary reactivation, the competitive invasion contrary to the law is also corrected, as determined by the Constitutional Court. Of course, we are glad that job creation, fortunately, is improving, not as quickly as we would all like, and especially in Asturias. That is why I do not want to miss my step through the rostrum without noting that in September we fell back to the job creation line in Spain, with scandalous unemployment data, because the rise in unemployment increased the national average - 4.68 % compared to 0.82 % -, which is Spain's third worst figure. It is not fair to know that in the period 2012-2017 the evolution of unemployment in the month of August regarding July in Asturias has exceeded the Spanish one by 4.4 points, but the closing of the month of September, while in Spain the unemployment grew in an insignificant way, in our region it was fired accumulating a divergence of nothing less than 18.61 points. In any case, the government has a big job creation target that we share so that there will be 20 million workers by 2020. However, for some unemployed people, the conditions limiting their entry into the labour market persist, and such measures must therefore be continued, protected and avoided. This is a set of measures which are of a marked social nature and which, in any case, should serve as an incentive for the main concern of the Spaniards, employment, to continue to decline in line with the creation of jobs. It is a pity that other extremely serious external political factors are diverting the attention and political priorities from which the great political, economic and social objective of this legislature should be. In this regard, the reading and analysis carried out by the Independent Tax Liability Authority, Airef, which has quantified the cost of the constitutional squandering that we are suffering in Catalonia and which can lead to a decrease of up to 1.2% in 2018 on the national gross domestic product, which would mean a loss of wealth of just over €13 billion and its corresponding translation into the loss of many tens of thousands of jobs. As I said at the outset, Madam President, Forum will vote in favour of this validation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u6	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning was over and not even with dawn hope came. Threat and fear are still there. This could apply to the beneficiaries of the Plan Prepare and also to the situation that we are living in today, when, a few minutes before it reaches a fateful hour, we can receive in the form of a threat the severe application of the law, because what the Plan Prepare also deals with is precisely an exceptional situation; exceptional with regard to the recipients, people who have already amortized unemployment benefits or subsidies and who are in a precarious situation and who are offered a minimum opportunity through a plan that has been recognized and extended on other occasions, but with regard to what we have on this occasion with an absolutely implacable precedent, which is that of the Constitutional Court's judgment 100/2017, which, as you already know, makes it necessary to annul certain powers that have been carried out in previous plans Prepare to point out that certain competences in the recognition, granting and payment of the aid corresponding to the Plan Prepare belong to or should be recognized to the autonomous communities. Well, it is exceptional not only as regards the recipients, but also as regards the solution that has been given to it, which is based not on the relentless exercise of the law, not on the absolutely inflexible application of the law, but on the interpretation of the law that will make possible or that intends to make possible a solution to a situation that is also exceptional for those recipients, a situation of precariousness that no one would have wished. Because, as the Minister has pointed out, this Preparation Plan is characterized not only by the judgment, but also by the existence of a determined agreement at the Sectoral Employment Conference, in which all those involved in the formation of the will of this type of policies, both ministry and autonomous communities and social agents, have indicated the desirability of continuing with the plan with its current characteristics. However, it should also be noted that the law has had to be embezzled in some way, since certain steps have been taken which, Minister, if we had led to the simple, pure and harsh application of the law, would not have been possible. I'll point out a few. For example, the fact that we are taking part in the sectoral conference is good for attracting wills, but the sectoral conference is not an attribution of competences. It is true that it is pointed out that the means by which the agreements would be made would be, but it happens that the agreements with the autonomous communities competent in the field of employment policy have not yet been signed and yet the royal decreeley has been issued even in the absence of those agreements. We also know that the tool used is the management order. Well, if we turn to the letter of Law 40/2015, we would also not be able to assign those powers or those powers in the area of resolution, since, according to that law, the powers are not only indelible, but through the management commission certain functions are assigned but not all; those which are innate to the exercise of competence, as is the case with the resolution, could not have been attributed either. I continue with the reservations that could have been made with regard to the strict and harsh application of the law, pointing out that for this purpose a reservation of credit is made - and this royal decreeley also contemplates it - but the reservation of credit is expressly prohibited by the judgment 100/2017 of the Constitutional Court, which says that, if necessary, transfers to the autonomous communities should have been made. However, we have continued to look at all these issues and have wanted to omit all these legal flaws that would have prevented the Continuity of the Preparation Plan if we had recourse to a mechanism of simple, pure and harsh application of the law, because precisely what motivates any public policy is the attention to the problems and the solution that can be given to them. Moreover, the royal decreeley contemplates as a competition title article 149.1.7 and 149.1.13, when the same 149.1.13 says that it is only this, but this is a point of my own harvest that I would like to show you. What happens in this situation? I am already telling you, Minister, that our vote is going to be in favour of this royal decreeley, but I would like to take this opportunity to point out that, at times like this, when the legal good under protection deserves the application of the law based on certain parameters not only of laxity but also of omission because it is fundamental values, the law does not become a tool at the service of its own right, but becomes a tool of solution. However, there are those in this country who in recent times use the law only as a tool of punishment, as a hammer, as a mere tool of imposition. What happens, ladies and gentlemen, is that for those who only know how to use the law as a hammer any problem is a nail, and that also applies to what can happen in a few minutes. Gentlemen of the Government, do not solve the problems that exist in this country using the law as a hammer, but as a management tool, because Catalonia is not a nail as is not the Preparation Plan. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u7	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the words of the PNV spokesman are interesting and it is someone I really appreciate, but we are talking about employment and mixing barbecues with merinas as they like agricultural similes is not usually good, because the important thing is to talk about the long-term unemployed, which is what the real decree is for. Today we are here to approve or not the validation of a royal decree that reactivates extraordinarily and for a limited time the Plan Prepares. As the Minister told us, it is a programme that has been taking place since 2011 and that helped the long-term unemployed to have an objective reintegration into the problem of the more than two million unemployed who are still in that situation today. The validation of the Royal Decree, which is motivated by the need to extend a plan to combat long-term unemployment - because its automatic extension was suspended by the data of the EPA of the second quarter, which left us the level of unemployment of this country at 3 914 000 - is a necessity today, but we cannot fail to make a rigorous and thorough study of those 3 914 000 unemployed. Madam Minister, we have more than 2 100 000 long-term unemployed. With the figures you estimated, of approximately 54 000 beneficiaries per year, it would take more than 40 years to put an end to long-term unemployment. It is clear that this plan is framed within active policies and, as you well know, active policies have five fundamental objectives. The first is to increase market transparency. It is clear that neither the Preparation Plan nor the EAP nor the RAI act on this. The second is to promote job creation and job sharing. The Preparation Plan may not create jobs, but it may be that it does get a share in ending the obsolescence of some of these low-skilled people, people who lack a specific qualification for the jobs that are being demanded on the market today. The third of the objectives achieved with active policies is to meet disadvantaged groups, and I believe that in this case that is the objective of the Plan. The fourth is to optimize human resources, and what I like about the Preparation Plan is to bet on specific training; the problem is whether that training is really geared to market needs, something we have been demanding from Citizens since the beginning of the legislature. And the fifth is to develop employment stability, which I believe we are not going to achieve with the Plan. We can make a clear reflection on whether this plan is effective or efficient. Of course, effective, in the light of the figures, we cannot think that it is totally effective, as the minister told us that only one in three people was getting an insertion, that is to say 33%. And as for whether it is efficient, talking about efficiency in the case of active policies and long-term unemployed, even if it may sound a little populist, we believe that by making a rule of three simple, taking the figure of 54 000 people and estimating an objective occupancy rate of 100 percent - although it has actually told us that it is 33 % - we would take more than 40 years to resolve this issue. I believe that, obviously, Madam Minister, and with all due respect, this is still a patch that we have demanded that we review and on which we have to act and we have put a solution on the table: the training contract and our formative cheque, proposed by the latter that we already know that some groups in this House are denouncing. But, Minister, we must also make the long-term unemployed responsible for their training, what they want to be older, how they can reintegrate into the labour market, how they can end the obsolescence of their training. On the other hand, the second additional provision provides for the revision of the programmes. It seems to us a good idea for a review of the programmes, since neither the EAP nor the Preparation nor the RAI can end in an optimal way the level of long-term unemployment we have in this country. When we look at the figures carefully and by communities, as the spokesman for the Asturias Forum said, we see that there are communities that are already at unemployment levels in years before the crisis, while some are still the regions with the highest level of unemployment in Europe. From the Canary Islands - where I come from - there are headlines today who say that we have the highest level of severe poverty in Europe, which is certainly very worrying. In conclusion, Minister, we clearly believe that this is a path, but it is only a small patch in the necessary solution. We ask that when we review the negotiating board with the rest of the autonomous communities, we be clear so that we can end once and for all with the only asymmetry that should concern us, which is the asymmetry of the fight against poverty and long-term unemployment. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u9	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs. Franco Carmona has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u10	Good morning, Madam President. Minister, I've seen you a little out of focus lately. Two weeks ago I wanted to turn a proposal for a minimum income bill into a six-month study job, and today it brings us a real decree-law that they have had to do urgently to undo the problems that the disaster you have mounted in the Ministry of Employment is causing. We are talking about its meddling in the last General Budgets of the State and its poor management in the fight against poverty and unemployment in Spain. They have been about to leave the most prestigious researchers in the fight against cancer in our country on the street. With this extension of temporary recruitment of up to five years you will no longer have to go to unemployment, but this is nothing more than a patch. They have to address a clear and serious bet against precariousness in science. If there was a real stake in science and research in our country, it would not sound so strange to our Government that there are workers with rights in this sector. In addition, no reduction of 20% in household employees' contributions was recorded in the last General State Budgets. Let me generalize by saying the workers, because the feminization of these jobs is more than obvious. Well, this measure has been lost in the last few months. The 20% reduction was created with the aim of bringing about employment in the activities of female domestic workers, but only two out of three female domestic workers are now being discharged. A minister of employment, who has not worked in her life but in politics, does not understand this very well, but my mother has cleaned many houses throughout her life and I know very well what I am talking about. They committed themselves with the unions to turning this reduction into a 20% social security bonus instead of a reduction so that the hundreds of millions of euros that these measures entail, with what this money is necessary for our pensions, would not be lost. Although they committed themselves to this, they have not done so, nor have they made it possible for women domestic workers to receive unemployment benefit. Why didn't they? Because when it comes to social dialogue and guaranteeing rights, you always fail. I would also ask you to sign the International Labour Organization Convention 189 on decent work for domestic workers, because to guarantee rights you do not want to hear much from international bodies, but to cut them down you do not doubt a single second. I'm going to focus on the Preparation Plan, another of the disasters that they want to fix now with this royal decree-law. In the summer, you took from unemployed people who do not charge a single euro the miserable 400 euros that this aid gives for only six months to those who have exhausted all kinds of benefits and who meet another million and a half more requirements. Mrs Báñez, you constantly repeat the damn cynical mantra that recovery has come, that it is better to have any job than to be unemployed and that a job - let me express it, Madam President - is the best labor policy. But just two or three days ago, the EAPN published its Arope report, a report that recounts the poverty situation in this country. It is a heartbreaking report that reveals that poverty affects more than ten million people in our country, a number that has been rising in recent years, despite the supposed recovery, which indicates that the recovery is not being achieved for the majority of our country's citizens; but it also reveals that 48 per cent of the people in our country who are unemployed are poor, 62 per cent of the people in our country are struggling to reach the end of the month or 14 per cent are poor. I am not talking to you, Mrs Báñez, about inert figures, but I am talking to you about people, people who meticulously count their money at the end of the month in order to be able to go to the supermarket, people who can't get out of the head that the cold is coming and who won't be able to pay the heating this winter again, people who have to come to their elders to help them with their pensions to pull forward or who have to go to food banks; I am talking to you about poverty, the poor in the fourth economy of the euro area. These people, whom you are not protecting, are my homeland, and there is the broken Spain. [[Applauds]] It is good that they have recovered the Preparation Plan, but in our country there are more than two million people who are unemployed and whose homes do not enter a single euro. The Plan provides that it will be able to protect 26,000 people. That means 1% of unemployed people who do not charge a single euro. I think we should rethink it. Could you live with 400 euros for six months? Well, while these people do real barbarities to move forward, you fill your own pockets and those of your friends with your B boxes, your Lezo, your Aquamed, your Noos case, your Brugal, your Gürtel or your Punic. [[Applauds]] The contempt you feel for our country, for the worst people who are going through it, is remarkable. Of the Active Income of Insertion in 2016 were not spent 229 million euros; of the Activation Program for the Employment did not execute 222 million euros; but it is that of the Preparation Plan itself were not spent 44 million euros. Do you know how many people could have charged the Plan Prepare with that lost money? 206 518 people, minister. I'm finishing up. It is significant this money that the Ministry of Employment loses for social assistance, and it is also significant that this is the fourth time that a real decree has to be validated in order to revalidate the Plan Preparation. Let us move towards a social model in which the control of poverty through measures such as poor people's meat, charity, food bags or clothing bags is relegated, giving way to social justice, rights, equal opportunities and economic rationality. Stop being patriots of bracelets, be patriots of heart, work to solve the problems of this country. Working for Spain is working for those who have less and loving the homeland is caring for our people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u11	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs González Bayo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we condemn and deeply regret the events that took place tonight in Valencia against the Vice-President of the Government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the royal decree-law that is being brought to this House today for validation allows us to deal with some uniquely important issues:... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u14	... the protection of the unemployed and the most vulnerable in our society, the extension of the Preparation Plan, but also the recruitment of persons who provide their services in households and young people who carry out scientific and technical research in the public sector. We are very sorry that these solutions arrive late, with lack of ambition and very little travel. They are answers, as already pointed out by the presentation of reasons, extraordinary and very short in time. We have to qualify this royal decree-law as the decree of patches, because it does not solve any problems, only postpones it in time. You have created uncertainty in the most vulnerable population, because you have felt how your protection sank or how your recruitment ended or how you lost your jobs or your years of research, and today you come here with a bad temper, Minister. The Socialist Group will support the initiative to activate the Preparation Plan, which includes this royal decree-law. We have already informed you in your appearance at the last Committee on Employment and Social Security which took place at the end of August. We told him: you are working badly and late, because you knew firsthand that we have 2.84 million reasons in this country for the Plan not to stop on August 15th, because we have 2.84 million people without social protection in this country. But you, knowing that the program ended on August 15th, knowing the sentence, with those limbs were left alone, gave them the same people who were having a bad time in this country and did not bring the collaboration agreement to the Autonomous Communities until the end of August. That is what you care about the 2.84 million people who today are unprotected in our society. And we do not understand why you create uncertainty, uneasiness and uneasiness in the weakest population, in the population that needs those 457 euros to mallive, because you will agree with me that with 457 euros, minister - even if you don't look at me - no one can live well in this country. [[Applauds]] Now they come to mend your answer; a remedy, do not tackle the problems, unprotected remains among the most disadvantaged people you have abandoned to your fate in our society. It was explained very well by Mr Simancas here on Tuesday in this House: they eliminated the allowance of the over fifty-two years old, but also eliminated almost impossible access to the fifty-five. I am not worth what Mr Candon said; excuses, because the older than fifty-five when they go to the offices know that they tell them that they cannot access it because you have hardened the requirements. I'm not surprised, because with these disastrous policies, that unemployment protection goes downhill. In June 2011, ladies and gentlemen, 15 108 million euros were spent in this country to protect the needy and in June this year only 6424. Borrowing your words, Mrs Báñez, the winter of the socialist government protected the people who needed it most in this country with more than EUR 15 billion; however, the spring of the People's Party only makes it available to those who need it most 6422 million. [[Applauds]] Mrs Báñez, your spring, which you sell to candy and platter, is the cut of more than 8.6 billion in unemployment protection. In global terms, the General Budgets of the State in 2011 included a budget of 30 million euros; in 2017 only 18 million, 12 million less, Mrs Báñez. As I say, the free fall, in sting, of the protection for the one who needs it most. The arrival of the People's Party has been a planned destruction of the welfare system; and I say planned because, as I said earlier, they have planned cuts in protection for the people who need it most in this country. All its policies - even if it does not want to look at me - are aimed at the destruction of the contributory and assistanceal protection; its spring, the spring that it does not want to name. But I am optimistic, because I am socialist and the socialists get up every morning with the desire to change the world and believe in the legislative initiative that the unions have presented today. Don't move your head. We want you not to look for shortcuts or delays, we want you to process yourself. There will be the socialists, in the processing of that minimum income or minimum income. We ask you to reorganise your policies because the system has shown that you cannot cover the long-term unemployed and that is why we have a structural problem that needs to be tackled, Minister. We offer you our cooperation. Finally, I do not want to forget the domestic workers, as you in the budgets took the bonus and sent back many people from this country to illegality. Don't play with people's dignity. People need security, put measures but measures in time, Minister. That is what the Socialists are asking. The researchers have also been punished by his Government and today they are once again brought here with them, but we want to tackle the issue of researchers seriously, bet on a professional itinerary based on excellence, merit and capacity. We want them to be given short- and long-term security. We will support this royal decree for political responsibility, because although it is poor in answers, the socialists think about the people who need it. That is why we have placed them, from the responsibility you have said in this rostrum, to work for those people who are going through the worst in this society and who feel abandoned by the People's Party government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u15	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, today we will validate the extension of the Preparation so that its continuity is ensured and no one will be unprotected. I would like to stress that this has been done with agreement, with dialogue with the Autonomous Communities and also within the framework of social dialogue. The important thing is, therefore, that there is agreement that no one should be left unprotected, because the first thing is people, the first thing is especially vulnerable Spaniards, long-term unemployed, most with family burdens. Precisely, the objective of the Preparation is that all these people can return to the labour market as soon as possible with a job. Things have been said here that I want to nuance. First, the PNV spokesman has spoken of misrepresenting the law. Mr Barandiaran - which I have said correctly, Barandiaran - does not misrepresent the law. It is true that at the time reference was made to Article 18(h)(5) of the Employment Act, but it is now that what is being used is 18(h)(2) or that, precisely, it empowers SEPE to exercise the powers of the Autonomous Communities, provided that there are agreements with them. They have criticized the issue of competences and, however, have presented an ILP for minimum income, which is precisely the competence of the autonomous communities. Citizens have spoken about the training check and, indeed, the training check is already in Madrid and Galicia. But I would like - since I am Andalusian - that they also demanded it in Andalusia. You co-rule in Andalusia with the Socialist Party - or support it - then demand it there, which is where there is the highest unemployment rate in all of Spain. The Socialist Group has openly criticized the Preparation, and I am quite surprised by the fact that the Preparation is a programme of the Socialist Party and the Government of the People's Party. All it has done is extend it and improve it so that those unemployed with family burdens can increase the amount. Moreover, it is curious because in the Committee on Employment - he has not said it here - the only contribution made by the Socialist Party was to say that the benefits were linked to the minimum wage rather than to the Iprem, when it was precisely a socialist minister, Mr Caldera, in 2004, who decoupled social aid from the minimum wage and linked it to the Iprem. That is the seriousness of the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] You also talk about the level of protection. With unemployment levels similar to 2009, the level of care protection has increased by 29%. They also tell us about unemployment protection. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in the country we are in 2011 unemployment benefits had reached EUR 30 billion and it is true that in recent years the unemployment benefit budget has fallen, but because unemployment has fallen, ladies and gentlemen. Benefits in the last year have fallen by 8.7% because unemployment has fallen by 9.5%. Or does it bother you to lower unemployment too? Or is it also a lie that unemployment is falling? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, no more traps in solitary. The reality is that 82% of the indefinite employment destroyed by the crisis and only 44% of the temporary employment has been recovered, the reality is that three out of every four people in this country have an indefinite contract and the reality is that in the last year, thanks to these programmes, the unemployment benefit coverage rate has increased one point. We can talk about inequality. Your Honor, 80% of inequality and poverty in this country is due to unemployment. Therefore, if we talk about alms, if we talk about dignity, what makes a person worthy is to have a job; dignity begins by creating employment and in this country more than two million jobs have been created by being Minister Báñez, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] That's a reality, whether you like it or not, Your Honor. I'm going to tell you one thing: it's okay with populist speeches, you prefer that Spain goes too wrong to distort reality and change all the data. Your Honor, I'm going to tell you one thing: we're going to continue to create jobs. And lessons, none, Your Honor, because you are weak in memory, because you are experts in tax fraud and some of your leaders have had to resign for not paying taxes, some of your leaders have speculated with VPO housing, some of your leaders have had university scholarships without going to work and some of your leaders have collected bills from Venezuela through tax havens and have made social security fraud because they have not paid their assistants' fees. [[Applauds]] That is what you, the Podemos, do, but in my land it is said that the melon must be shut up and you people have already shut up. And I'm going to tell you something else: working for Spain is not what you say; working for Spain is creating jobs, and where you govern, all you do is drive businesses away, drive away investments and destroy jobs. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, working for our homeland is to create more than two million jobs as they have been created in this country with the People's Party Government. [[Applauds]] You, who are a deputy for Huelva, are so misinformed that you confuse the Colombian Festivals, which is Huelva's big feast, with that of the colonists, which no longer exists. So, study a little more and lie a little less. At a time when the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen, can be said louder but no clearer: to defend the unemployed is certainly not to send to unemployment 3.5 million Spaniards as you did when you ruled. [[Applauds]] That is not defending the unemployed, that is creating more inequality, more poverty and worse pensions. You say that the Socialists are rising, but the Socialists were rising to unemployment to 1500 people in this country and are now creating 2600 jobs. That's what socialists did every time they got up. Do you know how to defend the unemployed? They are defended by creating jobs, creating jobs so that they can pay a mortgage, so that they can form a family, so that they can live in dignity. That is defending the unemployed, as has been done in this country in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know that in 1992 and 1993 you made the biggest cut in unemployment benefits? The amount of the benefit was reduced, the minimum time for the benefit was reduced, the tax exemption was abolished as income from work, the minimum period for entitlement to unemployment was increased from six months to one year. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you talking about? It is true that much remains to be done, but there is the reality, there is the reality of the job that has been created in this country, and there are no numbers of people who are no longer going to need this Preparation that we are going to validate today. I'm done, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for the consensus reached with the Autonomous Communities so that the Preparation can be extended and that no one can be left unprotected. Thank you, Minister, because there is more and more employment in this country and thank you because if you, with the ministry you run, continue to create 500 000 jobs a year, we will reach the challenge of the 20 million Spaniards working in 2019 and fewer and fewer will be needed programs like this, such as the Preparation. For that, to continue creating employment, always count on the bench of the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u17	Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 15/2017, OF 6 OCTOBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE MOBILITY OF ECONOMIC OPERATIONS IN THE NATIONAL TERRITORY. [[File number 130/000021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u18	We proceed to the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 15/2017 of 6 October of urgent measures regarding the mobility of economic operators within the national territory. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u19	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to appear in this House to request your support for the validation of the Royal Decree-Law of urgent measures on the mobility of economic operators within the national territory which was approved by the Council of Ministers last day 6. Before going into detail on the content of this brief royal decree-law let me put you in background on the context you regulate. Traditionally, the competence to modify the statutes of a trading company, including its registered office, rested with the general shareholders' meeting, however, different amendments to the legislation have expedited this type of decision. At first, the administrative body was allowed to have the capacity to change its registered office, provided that it was within the same population, except in the case of a statutory agreement to the contrary. In the same vein and at the request of the private sector, in 2015 the Government adopted a reform of the Capital Companies Act, which extended that power of the board of directors to any change of headquarters occurring within the national territory, unless otherwise provided in the statutes. However, since the 2015 reform, there have been certain discrepancies in interpreting how successive legal amendments affected the regime for the distribution of competences between the board of directors and the general meeting contained in the statutes of the capital companies. This interpretative divergence called into question the full achievement of the objective pursued with the legal change of 2015, which is nothing other than to speed up certain operational decisions linked to the mobility of companies. For this reason, and again at the request of numerous business groups, the Government has adopted this royal decree-law whose objectives are as follows. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u20	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u21	First, to allow companies' decision to change their registered office to take place as quickly as possible in the light of the special circumstances that have taken place over the last few weeks and, at the same time, to prevent the existence of interpretative doubts from being an obstacle. In order to achieve this, the wording of article 285 of the Capital Companies Act is specified, so that it is absolutely clear that the general rule is that the power to agree on a change of registered office within the national territory is vested in the board of directors and that if shareholders consider that such a rule should be amended, they must expressly establish it in their statutes. A transitional provision is also included concerning transfers of registered offices of companies whose statutes were already approved before the entry into force of this Royal Decree-Law. In such cases, it shall be understood that there is a will contrary to the competence of the board of directors to agree on the change of domicile within the national territory when, after the entry into force of this royal decree-law, the social statutes are amended to expressly declare it. Therefore, although the board of directors originally has the competence to change its registered office, the board of directors is free to change this approach. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is taking this step to deepen the flexibility of the corporate decision-making system and to provide the necessary certainty to the framework for corporate action, all of which is that legal certainty is a determining factor in private sector decision-making, especially at times like the one we are currently experiencing. The extraordinary and urgent need for the measure is justified in guaranteeing in the special circumstances that we are currently experiencing two constitutional principles which are particularly important in the area of the powers of the ministry I run: freedom of enterprise, first of all, and freedom of establishment for economic operators. I also understand that the fact that in the days following the entry into force of this rule many companies have taken or are taking the decision to change their registered office justifies this particular urgency. Allow me in any case to make it clear that it is the companies that will freely continue to make decisions about their location according to their own interests and those of their shareholders, workers and customers. Finally, I would like to express my appreciation of the support given to this royal decree-law by the various parliamentary groups. It is important that this text be validated with its current wording as opening the door to possible modifications could hinder or paralyse the decision of many companies to move their registered office in the coming weeks or, worse, might cast doubts on decisions that have recently been taken in implementation of this royal decree-law. I therefore request your support for the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u22	Thank you very much. The use of the counter turn has been requested by the United Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor on behalf of that group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. We have here a real short decree, a real ad hoc decree that really involves three problems or, at least, covers three issues that we believe to be conflicting: first there is one of a democratic nature, then there is another of a procedural nature and finally there is another of a political nature that nobody escapes. I begin with the first, which has to do with the distribution or distribution of resources and power within companies; that is, the distribution of decision-making capacity among the different social and economic actors within a company. In our group, in our political tradition we have always defended economic democracy and we have argued that it was necessary to deepen the capacity of the different sectors of a company, especially the workers, in the decision-making of the companies themselves. We have seen in the history of the company itself how the administrators had – to say the least – emancipated themselves from the partners or shareholders at certain historical times and how there have always been attempts that in the end these managers could not go free from the will of the partners and shareholders. Well, this decree is confined to that context and what it does is to back down because it grants special power, increased power, greater power to administrators over minority shareholders or shareholders. Not only does he no longer talk about the possibility that we would like to see how each company's workers also have the capacity to decide, but that they are withdrawn, he also deducts the capacity from the partners and shareholders. This is a problem, let us say, of a democratic nature within the company that is not only worrying for our group but also for certain associations, as you know well, such as Adicae, who has already protested in the face of this circumstance. But it is clear that this is not the most striking part of the decree, there is an added procedural element and that it does not seem to justify the urgency of a real decree of these characteristics, it does not seem that it falls within the category of exceptionality or urgency. It is obvious that it responds to an ad hoc business demand made to the Government and the Socialist Party, which seems to be also part of this agreement, the agreement of this royal decree. It is a very concrete business demand that could come, for example, from La Caixa, who disconnects a telephone, calls certain political actors from the government and also from the opposition, from the Socialist Party, to tell them: I have a problem, I may lose money, please give me an a la carte decree. And the government listens to him, he bows to his demands. And this is a procedural problem because what La Caixa argues is essentially that it can lose money in a conflict like Catalan. What is going to happen here in the future when other companies or the same one, La Caixa, can call the government and say: how does it turn out that the right to strike limits my business profits in the future, why don't you make me a decree? That is to say, what we have here is a procedural and democratic problem too: how the government gives in to business demands that may or may not be justified - and I will now talk about it - in favour of certain companies with names and surnames like all of us know. There is a convergence of interests in our view. The Government is interested in creating a political climate of propaganda according to which companies leave Catalonia and certain Catalan companies are interested in a decree that can justify their decisions made in this way. I believe that this is closer to the processes of the nineteenth century, in which large companies, or practically aristocrats, demanded a measure from the Government and that measure was applied directly, than to democratic conduct of the twenty-first century. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u24	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u25	But, of course, La Caixa argues the economic instability resulting from the problem and the conflict in Catalonia, and hence the urgency is argued. We believe that the independenceists are wrong, they have a legitimate position but we believe they are wrong; however, they cannot be blamed for everything, they cannot be blamed for economic instability. Economic instability is the result of the lack of dialogue, the lack of political channels, the lack of instruments to solve problems, and this decree attempts to use an economic weapon in this dispute, which is truly dangerous. [[Applauds]] We can understand that financial companies may be afraid of banking panic at a time of uncertainty, it may even be justified, although, as a matter of fact, you could have gone out and said that absolutely nothing is going to happen and stop that hypothetical banking panic. In any case, financial institutions may even have a pass, but what makes no sense is that there is a purely administrative change in car manufacturing companies or even hotels simply arguing that there is economic instability. It is clear that we are in a process of political propaganda in which the Government has, in turn, disconnected telephones to ask certain business people to help them contribute to a climate that can be used propagandistically; that is, one more weapon for the political objectives of the Government. We believe that this is an obvious problem that has no legal reasons, that it has no economic reasons, and that it leads us to a bigger problem, that is to use all kinds of instruments to avoid what would be the simplest solution. I finish already to let my partner go on with the argument. Mr De Guindos, if there were political channels, if there was dialogue, if there was a reasonable space of democratic common sense to solve problems of a political nature there would be no such economic instability, no need for this decree, no need for those photos, no need to take off telephones and no need for the Government to give La Caixa any more favor, which commits us all. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u26	Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u27	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to convey our full solidarity to the Vice-President of the Valencian Government, Monica Oltra, who has been harassed by a fascist group in her home, and our condemnation also to all these fascist groups who dare to camp now also on our streets. [[Applauds]] The first duty of a Democrat is antifascism. [[Applauds]] Minister, how fast you are when you want! Forty-eight hours after some big bank manager picked up the phone, you already passed this royal decree-law. How fast they are for these things, to approve the 135 reform with the PSOE, for the fiscal amnesty, for the bank rescue, and how slow and incompetent they are for other things that benefit the majority, for the fight against energy poverty, in the measures to protect people who lose their homes or against the scams of the ground clauses! How fast they are for some things and how slow for others! The chairman of the SEAT company committee has denounced the political and monarchical pressures to change the company's head office. The strategy of economic asphyxiation and legal uncertainty harm society as a whole, not only the Government of the Generalitat. These measures are against ordinary people, not against a particular government. How are you going to be guarantors of the unity of Spain if you are doing politics as if Catalonia were already an alien reality? This royal decree is one more step in the sum of misconceptions of its policy in relation to Catalonia. We do not share the Catalan Government's strategy, also on the basis of a democratic principle. On 1 October it was a spectacular expression of the will to decide, but it cannot be revealed that it is a referendum, a democratic mandate to declare independence; moreover, it forgets much of Catalan society. But now the ball is back on its roof. What are you going to do now, apply 155 for a non-declaration of independence? That, minister, would be an irresponsibility, an irresponsibility like that of the sectors that in Catalonia want the 155 to apply to justify new steps in the dead end of the DUI; an irresponsibility like that of all those who put their electoral interest before the interest of the common people. [[Applauds]] In Catalonia and Spain as a whole there are many people who are worried, distressed, who live with sadness this moment and who are so sick of irresponsibility, who do not want DUI, nor 155, nor anti-disturbing in the streets, nor people in prison, nor companies that change their social domicile. Enough of this irresponsibility. [[Applauds]] The majority want a just and democratic solution out of the logic of victory or defeat, out of the logic of all humiliation. Look, in the short term you can win the state because you have the strength, but you're going to lose democracy. This is where we are, in a democratic involution of rights and freedoms. Amnesty International has called for the freedom of Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart as a restriction of the right to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly. If the prosecution had put the same interest in combating bank fraud or corruption, we would certainly be in the first places in countries with more transparency and less corruption. [[Applauds]] I have never liked the expression train shock because it suggests that there is a situation of equality that is not real, because the coercive capacity of the State is superior to that of the Generalitat, but the question that should be asked if they really cared more about their country than their party is the following: how is it possible for half of Catalonia's citizenship to return to what you call the constitutional order in a democratic and European society of the twenty-first century?, how is it possible to bring back the constitutional principle and the democratic principle when 80% of the citizenship wants to vote in a referendum? And you do not have a democratic and not even constitutional answer to this question. How are they going to do that, with cops, with prosecutors, with the strategy of fear, pushing companies to leave Catalonia? How are they going to do that?, dissolving the Parliament of Catalonia to call elections from La Moncloa? By authoritarian imposition prohibiting the independenceist parties, as suggested or proposed by these pyromaniacs who are Casado and Albiol, to whom they would have to throw precisely because they are pyromaniacs? What are you going to do, apply 155 until people change their minds? [[Applauds]] The problem is that the situation of chronic instability deteriorates the institutions and the economic situation itself not only in Catalonia but in Spain as a whole. If anyone believes that the change of company's registered office is going to produce a profit in another territory they are wrong, because the loss is going to be of everyone; Airef has already said, 12 billion euros because of political instability and, ultimately, also because of the lack of dialogue. A classic said that the nation is a daily plebiscite, everyday. Accession to a country, to a State, is not achieved by force. To my 20-year-old daughter who wonders about the Spanish-Cataluña relationship, what would I say to her, minister: this is solved by reading article 2 of the Constitution, or title VIII, or better, 155, and if she doesn't convince you, she reads the Penal Code, which generates a lot of awareness of belonging to Spain? [[Applauds]] In democracy it is necessary to convince and not to win. The daily plebiscite can be won with a shared project based on diversity and freedom. The only way is through the agreed referendum and constitutional change to recognize reality, which is plurinationality. I'm done. We will never resign ourselves to the evil that the history of Spain is the saddest of the stories because it ends badly, as the poet said. Without a doubt, another Government is needed in order for it to succeed. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u28	I give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u29	Thank you, President. Mr Garzón, we are going to make a number of considerations because you, from time to time leaving the usual demagogy of your group, are an economist with an analysis capacity and with the ability to deduce the implications of economic operators' decisions. Firstly, the autonomy of the decision is an autonomy of the company, the only thing that has made this royal decree-law, as did the modification of the year 2015, is to give the board of directors the possibility to modify the registered office; that is, it remains the will of the companies and it seems that the companies have used it, because, as we have seen in recent days, about eight hundred companies have changed their registered office. I mean, it looks like it was justified. In addition, from the point of view of that corporate government democracy you mentioned earlier, the general shareholders' meeting can perfectly modify the statutes and can remove the jurisdiction of the board of directors and return it to the board. Therefore, there has been no change, there has been no interference in corporate governance of companies. Ultimately, it remains the general meeting that has the final say in deciding and can modify or rebut decisions taken by the board of directors. And I repeat again, it seems that a few have followed him, about eight hundred. But, Mr. Garzón, beyond what is the decree-law, because the decree-law always responds to a substrate, responds to an urgent need, what is happening? What is happening fundamentally is that Catalonia, which is the autonomous community of Spain most integrated in the world from the point of view of trade flows, financial flows, capital flows, could be seen as a result of the decisions of the Government of the Generalitat taken from the bottom of that integration situation in the world - as a consequence, I repeat, of the decisions that the Generalitat is making - and immediately that possibility simply generates the reaction of the companies. Mr Garzón, what we have seen from the change of domicile of eight hundred companies is only an aperitif of what could happen if independence were actually to come to fruition, which, I repeat, this government is not going to let go. Therefore, think of what have really been the causes, the factors behind the decisions made. Because, I repeat, there are two fundamental reasons why companies are voting with their feet and changing their homes outside the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. The first is the breakdown of legality. Legality is not a divisible concept. If a government somehow breaks a part of the law, what guarantees do economic operators have that it will not do the same with the rest of the law? Obviously, that creates legal uncertainty, because the rule of law does what it does is to determine a general framework in which commercial enterprises, which are ultimately the ones that generate employment and prosperity, move, and if that framework is mobile, if that framework is not secure, it creates insecurity. And you have no doubt whatsoever that there is no successful society without a relatively stable legal framework. But the second fundamental reason is that independence, Mr Garzón, would be terrifying for Catalonia, would be an economic suicide for Catalonia, and I will explain why. If Catalonia were to become independent, it would be outside all the treaties of the Union, it would no longer be part of the European Union, it would not be part of the euro area. Not being a member of the European Union would essentially mean that around 70% of Catalonia's products would be subject to tariffs. Do you think, for example, that the car sector, which is very important in Catalonia, could bear a 10% tariff to sell its products in the rest of Spain or in the rest of Europe? In turn, all the advantages of all the trade agreements that the Union has with the rest of the world would be lost. But they are not just tariff issues. For example, goods and services exported from Catalonia to the rest of Spain, to the rest of Europe or to the rest of the world on many occasions - because they would not be part of the WTO - would be subject to the so-called border effect. That is to say, the export of a commodity from Catalonia to France would have to pass through a border - this is one of the issues that are currently being discussed in relation to Brexit - with the paperwork and delays that this entails. The loss of competitiveness would be brutal. I repeat that Catalonia would see approximately 70% of its production subject to tariffs, administrative restrictions and any restrictions from the point of view of international trade. That would greatly affect the competitiveness of an economy that is one of the most integrated in the world and in the world's trade flows. Moreover, that is the fundamental reason why until very recently - until very recently - Catalonia grew more than the average of the rest of Spain, Mr Garzón. The recovery has been more intense in Catalonia than in the rest of Spain and perhaps, Your Honor, that is because the measures and economic policy adopted by the Government have allowed Catalonia to take advantage of the improvements in competitiveness and financing that have taken place throughout the national economy. But that is not only the case, Mr Garzón, but Catalonia would also remain outside the euro. It would remain outside all financial economic decision-making bodies of the European Union and the euro area. It would not be part of the Eurogroup, it would not be part of the Ecofin, it would not be part of the MEDE - i.e. the rescue fund - and it would not be part of the Council of the European Central Bank. But this is not just an institutional issue, but the issues involved. Access to the European Central Bank's liquidity windows - and that is something of which you understand perfectly because you are an economist and have discussed it on other occasions - would be immediately limited, aborted as a result of having your domicile in Catalonia. That is why the two main banks in Catalonia have left immediately. Don't look for conspiracy theories; it can't be, it's that you have no choice, it's that you can't live without access to a central bank in euros. That's the first consideration, but there's more. If Catalonia stays outside the euro area, immediately all Catalan assets - public debt, loans granted, etc. - would no longer be eligible as collateral for liquidity windows and, therefore, the credit restriction that would occur in Catalonia would be brutal. The contraction of the credit flows that you and I have analyzed from 2011, 2012 or 2013 would be a joke compared to what could happen, Mr. Garzón. And you know perfectly well that a credit contraction of this nature would immediately have a very important impact. But it's not just that. What would happen to the accounts? What would happen to the deposits of Catalan savers? Being outside the euro area would immediately generate doubts. We have already seen doubts in the last few days after the irresponsible decisions of the Government of the Generalitat, so imagine the situation in the event of definitive independence. The bank run would be brutal. That would ultimately lead to something that we have already seen in some other country not far away, which is Greece; it would logically lead to an undesirable situation in which withdrawals of money should be limited. Catalan savers, who have seen what has happened in recent weeks, somehow advance that this could happen and advance. Of course, people are trying to defend their savings books, their deposits, because they are their savings and the effort of life, Mr. Garzón. Furthermore, Mr Garzón, do not have the slightest doubt that in those circumstances an independent Catalonian theorist would have only one solution, which would be to set up his own central bank and create his own currency, which I will not call the Catalan peseta, even though the origin of the term peseta, as you know, comes from Catalan. In those circumstances, with that currency, there is a principle in economy that you also know: the bad currency moves to the good currency, and the bad currency - which would be the Catalan peseta - would move to the euro. What would be happening, Mr Garzón, would be a currency devaluation, a devaluation of the savings of Catalans, who would immediately attempt to protect their savings in euros, Mr Garzón, in euros, not in Catalan peseta. All this would create a situation, from the point of view of expectations, truly terrifying. On the other hand, with regard to the budgetary situation, in the face of the recession caused by trade and financial problems, Catalonia's revenue-generating capacity would be immediately undermined. Education, health and the basic principles of the welfare State could not be addressed. Ultimately, they would have to resort to something that you, as an economist, also know, which is the monetization of the deficit, the generation of inflation. They would not have access to capital markets, their ratio of public debt to GDP would be absolutely inflated, which ultimately leads to the brutal impoverishment of Catalan society, something that the Spanish Government will not consent to happen, because - you said - the impact would also be for the rest of the Spanish economy; although the impact would occur very especially in the whole of Catalan society, as we are already seeing. As for the way out, as I said earlier, do not stay in the symptoms; go to the causes of what is going on, Mr Garzón - you, who sometimes, when you leave the usual populist tone, have the ability to analyze and interpret reality -, which are ultimately the policies of the Government of the Generalitat. I understand perfectly well that the exits of companies are skewed in certain environments, but what is ultimately happening is that those who generate wealth, those who generate employment, are revealing policies absolutely out of reality and crazy of the Catalan Generalitat. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I have listened to you very carefully and I cannot deny that your argument, your discursive deployment, is consistent, except at one point: the starting hypothesis. It happens to you as to the economic models that are extraordinarily sophisticated in your mathematical development, but they start from a mistake: the starting hypothesis. If you observe - and I think this whole House could easily do so - you will see that you have a contradiction of initiation. You say: absolutely nothing is going to happen in Catalonia, legality is going to be maintained, there is not going to be independence. However, they act as reflected in their speech, as if all that were to happen. [[Applauds]] You have made a real decree to make it easier for companies to leave Catalonia, when you are saying that Catalonia is part of the state and that absolutely nothing is going to happen. That's contradictory. A Government that was consistent with its speech that nothing was going to happen would do the opposite. I would say: We will provide the whole population with the reasons why they should not be concerned, the reasons why they should not go out and take money from the cashiers, the reasons why they should be calm, because their currency will be the same, because their economic structure will be the same, because their international relations will be the same. On the other hand, what you do is a policy of fear, because you use it as a political, not an economic instrument. You have drawn here a dystopia, which seems to me very reasonable and even consistent, but it is a dystopia that has no anchor with the reality of what is happening in our country, it is simply a propaganda exercise to instill fear in a particular population that is now subjected to enormous political tensions, to take sides by one of the parties in conflict, and that is irresponsible; it is irresponsible for the effects it generates, but it is also because it means lying. Minister, you know that you haven't moved a cashier, you know that you haven't moved a building, you know that you haven't moved a job, you know that this is fireworks, you know that this is a mere administrative statement that aims to fill headlines to scare the population, to send a message: If you are independent, the thing is wrong. [[Applauds]] Eye! You're talking to someone who's not an independentist. I have my arguments and I oppose them to the compañeros and compañeras of Catalonia who believe that independence is legitimate, and I say to them that I think independence is a mistake, but I say it with arguments very different from yours. However, we're not talking about that right now, we're talking about you guys throwing more gasoline into the fire, you're fueling social tension by saying: Those irresponsibles are generating not only social tension but also economic problems that people are going to be affected by in their homes. That is irresponsible, because you are the government not only of the rest of the state but also of the population in Catalonia, and you can never forget that. Filling the population with fear is irresponsible. You know we're talking about a political problem intertwined with the economy. You know it's very strange that eight hundred companies make an administrative gesture virtually simultaneously. This is not even believed by the most naive economists. It is clear that there have been pressures in different directions, with convergences of interests. The company committee in Seat now says that it has been pressured to relocate - this is not even the technical word - to make this administrative gesture. It is clear that we are in a political battle that is not resolved by political channels but by pressure from judicial instruments, instruments... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u33	...of the State Security Forces and Bodies and now also with an economic weapon. We believe that using the economy as a weapon in a political conflict generates many victims, but the victims are always the same: the popular classes of Catalonia and the popular classes of the state; moreover, you have made a real decree for the large companies of Catalonia, but you have not thought about the dispossessed of Catalonia, you have not thought about the unemployed, you have not thought about the popular classes of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] They have made a decree that obeys the specific business demands of certain business conglomerates that we all know as well; it is not necessary to be conspiratorial to know who they are, to know the names and surnames of certain economic powers. The problem goes beyond that, Minister. I'd like to discuss those hypothetical scenarios with you. Maybe this isn't the right framework. Do you know what the most appropriate framework would be? A referendum agreed between Catalonia and the rest of the state, as was done in the United Kingdom, so that they could be discussed calmly, calmly, calmly the pros and cons of independence, and you would probably have a great focus there to make a promotion of the no, with totally different arguments, for example, to those I would use, to which I would use my group. That would mean that there would be no economic instability, that there would be no social tension, that we would not be living the moments of tension that we are living now, not only in Catalonia but also in the rest of the state, and that we would be doing things as an advanced democratic country. However, instead of going to that agreed referendum scenario where politics is made to solve political problems, we are using the police, the judges and the big companies as an instrument. That is also - and I finish with this - cowardice, Minister, because I believe that at a time when political problems exist, political solutions are needed from those who are responsible for that, who are here in this Parliament. The police, the judges, even the companies do their job, but they should not be protagonists of a problem that is not of a few leaders; there are more than two and a half million people who legitimately think differently of the Government of Spain, and that is not solved by real decrees either with the police or with the judges, but by talking, negotiating and dialogue. Therefore, from our group we say no to independence and obviously not to 155, which you seem to want to use, and yes to something very sensible: political channels for a political problem. There we can discuss economics and all the things we like about you and me, but without threatening the lives of many people who are at risk under these circumstances. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u34	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u35	Madam President, Mr Garzón, I think you are making a mistake from the point of view of analysis. Before you spoke of the initial premise, and you have an incorrect initial premise from the point of view of your reasoning. That mistake is to consider that the economic world and the world of politics are completely different planes. No, Mr. Garzón, they're not different plans. The worst economic crises, Mr Garzón, are political crises. Analyze economic history and see how, whenever a major political crisis has occurred, an economic crisis occurs. I'm going to give you a very close example, Brexit, a political problem with political implications, a referendum... And what's going on? Intensified slowdown in the UK economy, uncertainty from the point of view of economic operators, paralysis of investment projects, paralysing, for example, the evolution of the real estate sector, immediately doubts about the framework in which we are going to move in the coming years. And that, I repeat again, what ultimately produces is that all economic variables deteriorate. That is why the UK economy, in a context of growth in the world economy, is going to be the only one to which the International Monetary Fund reduced its growth projection last week, and let us see what happens in the coming weeks and months. Therefore, Mr. Garzón, do not separate me from the two planes. That's a fallacy, and you know it exactly as I do. The decisions of those eight hundred companies are not the result of this royal decree-law, Mr. Garzón. Don't be mistaken. Don't make a mistake, don't try to look for culprits where they're not. The decisions of these eight hundred companies and the decisions to stop investment or the fall, for example, of the sales of the large areas in Catalonia from day 1 to day 17 of almost 20% are mainly the result of the irresponsible decisions of a government, which is the Government of the Generalitat. That is where I expected you to be, Mr. Garzón - you, who defend the workers; you, who defend economic growth; you, who defend prosperity - because you have the capacity for analysis. You're not just a populist propagandist of what happens, you're something else, Mr. Garzón, and I'm telling you with all the affection you know I have. That is where I hoped you would have been, that you would have considered those policies, those approaches are generating fear, uncertainty and fear. In these circumstances economic operators make their decisions, which are consistent and a priori rational and reasonable. That's what they're doing. Do not kill the messenger, Mr Garzón, go to the cause of the problem, and I repeat to you again that the cause of the problem is a policy that is breaking the law and that is generating uncertainty, and the one that is going to pay for it fundamentally is Catalan society. Therefore, do not stand on the side of all those who are somehow creating such an impoverishing framework and put yourself on the side, please, of those who are somehow trying to avoid that. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Floriano Corrales: Very well.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u36	Thank you very much. It has requested the use of the turn in favour of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. I have the floor, on behalf of that group, Mr Roldán Monés.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u37	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vendrell, I am glad that you have come to the House and finally denounce the fascist enslavement. We suffer them every day in Barcelona, in our headquarters and our people there. [[Applauds]] I'd like you to report all the fascist enslavements. Today it is up to me to defend a real decree brought by the Government to facilitate changes in the company's registered office within the national territory. It is a decree that initially seems bureaucratic, it could seem simply administrative, but, in my opinion, it has a gigantic political and symbolic character. We are here because a clearly populist government in Catalonia has decided to declare unilateral independence by dynamizing legal certainty, absolutely essential - as the minister has explained better than I - for economic activity, and has expelled from the land it loves so many companies and all its big banks. As a Catalan and as an economist I find it a great pity to see how because of a government of incompetent politicians blinded by a flag, companies with very deep historical roots in Catalonia have to leave my land, which have symbolized the best of Catalan and Spanish entrepreneurship, which have been the engine of employment in Catalonia and Spain, which have been an international example in many sectors, which have made Catalonia one of the richest, most prosperous and fairest regions in Europe. The populists build a story that divides the world between good and bad, those from home against those from outside, immigrants against the natives, Catalans against the Spanish. They attribute inferior qualities to each other, to the collective, and then lie to conscience and systematically guided by a fanciful, lapsed, exclusionary and reactionary ideology. Do you want to know what Mr.Artur Mas said a few days before the 2015 elections, when they asked him what was going to happen to banks and companies? He said: No; I believe that no bank is going to leave. It's more - I said - they're even going to fight to come to Catalonia. That's what statesman Mas said. Do you want to know what Councillor Junqueras, a counselor of an economy the size of Portugal, said when asked in La Sixtha a few days ago, on October 5th? I quote literally. He said: I don't think there's going to be any company runaways. We've been listening to such vaccines for a long time, but they've never been fulfilled. That's what the brilliant councillor for Catalonia's economy thinks. These are some of the companies that have left Catalonia managed by these geniuses: La Caixa, Banco Sabadell, Gas Natural, Aigües de Barcelona, Colonial, Cellnex, Abertis, eDreams, Pastas Gallo, Grupo Planeta, Freixenet, Catalana Occidente, San Miguel, Naturhouse, Bimbo, Eurona, Codorníu and even the owner of the lotteries of La Bruixa d'Or has had to go from Catalonia because he cannot work. At this rate, ladies and gentlemen of Convergence and Esquerra, all they will have left is Toni Soler's producer to finance the propaganda that is done on TV3 every day. [[Applauds]] They are companies of all sectors: banks that have financed the major industrial projects of Catalonia, textile companies that have been world reference for decades, electrical companies that were pioneers connecting this country with North Africa, emblematic publishers that have published the best books in Catalan literature. Ladies and gentlemen, populism does not discriminate in the destruction of wealth. [[Applauds]] So far, eight hundred companies have left Catalonia, it is said soon! One of the saddest stories of all - mentioned by a friend, Roger Sensorrich, on social networks the other day - is that of Codorníu, a company created in 1551, which survived the war of the Segadors, survived the war of succession, survived Napoleon, survived the Carlists, the Civil War and the economic crisis of 2007, but has been unable to survive the savers, statesmen, liberators of Junqueras and Puigdemont. [[Applauds]] I have some questions to ask the gentlemen of Convergence and Esquerra and their independence group. Now that they have managed to expel all the companies from Catalonia, in the future born Catalan, in that Catalonia paradise that have been invented in their heads, who will pay taxes? Who will finance the welfare state in that Catalonian paradise? Who's gonna do it if there's not one company left? Is that the way you show that you want your land? Deceiving your unscrupulous and conscientious population? Provoking irrecoverable fractures between friends and family that we suffer all Catalans every day? Taking the economy to the edge of the cliff? Trituring the essence of the best entrepreneurial Catalanism that has been built in Catalonia for hundreds of years? The worst is that lies about companies and banks are only a small part of the populist hegemonic story of these years. Look, I'm gonna show you a little bit of news about another of the government's big promises. [[Shows a press release]] It says: 'The Government undertakes to raise pensions from the first moment of independence'. This was published by the vanguard a couple of months ago. It is not Nigel Farage, of UKIP, speaking of the great successes of the Brexit, is another great statesman, Josep Ginesta, secretary general of Treball, Afers Socials i Families, who at a conference in Sant Cugat said: Not only will pensions be guaranteed, but we will also pass from the rate of revaluation of Spain and will raise pensions in the first minute. According to his thesis, after unilateral independence the Spaniards will pay the deficit of the social security and pension system in Catalonia and, not content with that, we will raise them to the Catalans. But what planet do you live on, gentlemen of Convergence and Esquerra? What planet do they live on? [[Applauds]] The best thing about Mr Ginesta is that he says that if the Spaniards decide not to pay our pensions, pensions higher than those of the rest of the Spaniards, what we are going to ask for is a bridge credit. A nation, supposedly a nation created, asking for a bridge credit, to whom? Who in their right mind would lend a single euro to an independent Catalonia without international recognition of anyone, without companies, broken and ruled by you and the CUP, gentlemen? [[Applauds]] Stop fooling the citizens, you don't play with the things of eating. This is the reality, the 47 billion deficit in Catalan pensions if there were independence. [[It shows a news that reads: '47 billion hole in Catalan pensions if there was independence']] But there's another better one. Do you know the story of the tax expoliation they have built in Catalonia in recent years? It is another classic populist argument: immigrants steal from us, the European Union steals from us In this case it is Andalusians, extremists and other people inferior to Catalans who steal from us. [[Rumors]] This was the Convergence poster for the elections Look what it says: Subsidized Spain lives at the cost of productive Catalonia. [[Shows a poster reading: 'Subsidized Spain Lives at the Coast of Productive Catalonia']] [[Applauds]] Is this democracy? Where's Mr. Garzón? Is this the economic democracy you're talking about? Mr. Iglesias, is this the project you are defending for Spain? According to the account, as I said, EUR 16 billion would be available immediately after independence. But is the 16 billion speech really true? In Spain it is not the territories that pay taxes, it is the citizens, and as Catalonia has richer citizens what happens is that they contribute to the common solidarity of all Spaniards, as, by the way, all the richer autonomous communities do. [[Applauds]] Here is an example of what has happened in the past year with fiscal balances. [[It shows a news that reads: 'Cataluña contributes half that Madrid to regional solidarity']] Madrid has ended up providing the double – the double! – that Catalonia to the common arks. Madrid would probably also have to ask for independence, according to your opinion, gentlemen. [[Applauds]] They have built a great lie based on a method of calculation, that of the 16 billion, that of the monetary flow, which basically does not count all the investments that are not made in Catalonia. For example, the AVE that communicates Barcelona with Madrid, from the border, the strip, no longer counts, because since it does not benefit Catalans at all the communication between Madrid and Barcelona everything that remains outside does not count. Of course, the defense doesn't count either. Mas Colell himself, the adviser who was previously in the Generalitat, acknowledged that this method of calculation was wrong and that there are in fact 3.5 billion the fiscal imbalance that Catalonia has. If to that we subtract the creation of a new state - because I imagine they will want a justice, a defense and a tax administration -, the loss of companies and massive banks that we are seeing and the change of fiscal residence that would eventually result from all this, the consequent collapse of the economy and of employment, the fall of the collection, the increase of the costs of financing for interest - because, of course, they will start a state after having made default, that will be their only credit history -, the flight of capital due to the uncertainty about the belonging to the euro - which the minister explained so well -, the costs of the border effect and the loss of trade synergies, gentlemen, is absolutely dismantled the main argument of independence, which is that of tax evasion. The reality is that the only expoliation they are doing is that of nationalist populism with the middle and working classes in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] That's the real expoliation that's in Catalonia right now. I, from my personal experience - I lived for a while in the UK - experienced very closely the story of Brexit and I can assure you that seeing today's images now reminds me very much of what I saw there. [[Rumors]] This is what Farage said on a bus He said: We send £350 million to Europe every week. [[Shows a picture of a bus reading: 'We send the EU £350 million a week / let's fund our NHS instead. Vote Leave / Let's take back control']] We could have them to finance our health. [[Rumors]] What happened the day after the Brexit? Well, Mr. Farage said, "Oh! Wow! Excuse me. I was wrong about my promise, in the end it was a mistake. At least he had more dignity than Mr Junqueras, who after the banks left, after having denied that they would leave, the first thing he said was that it was the police's fault and then, not happy with it, he said that nothing really happened because they had gone to the Catalan countries, they had gone to Alicante and Mallorca. [[Applauds]] A true adviser, a brilliant reference for the international economy. [[Applauds]] I could go on for hours talking about myths and tales and accounts of independence, about the promises they made about EU membership, about the euro, but I have little time left and I would like to highlight a point about what Mr Garzón said earlier and take out a tweet from Mr Gaspar Llamazares [[Shows a sign with a tweet]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u38	Mr. Roldan, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u39	Yeah, I'm done with this. He said: It is a pity that it was the companies that deflated the story that Spain steals from us. It should have been the left. That's what Mr. Llamazares said. Are you so eager to destabilize the country that you are willing to support a movement that, in addition to being led by one of the most corrupt parties in Spain, is openly insolidary and openly populist? But where is the left that believed in the values of equality? Where is the left that believed in Republican values? I think, friends of Podemos, you're making a historic mistake that your voters are going to make pay for. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u40	Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Roldán, speaking of Valencia, what you should be ashamed of is that the Citizens' Group did not vote for the condemnation of the fascist attacks on 9 October in Valencia. That's what should embarrass them. [[Applauds.- Mr.Cantó García del Moral: What a shame!]] I used to talk about irresponsibility, but it's that you take the prize of irresponsibility, no doubt, because it's been days, weeks, asking for Catalonia's autonomy to intervene, asking for 155 to apply. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u42	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u43	I believe that if it were for you, you would have already applied 155 in 2006, when we approved the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. I am very sorry that you are so irresponsible, because you are the first force of the opposition in the Parliament of Catalonia and now you are going to vote in favour of a real decree that you want to promote - try to promote it in alliance with some of the big banks and the big companies - drowning and economic asphyxiation and fear about the economic future of Catalonia. That's a big irresponsibility. You are the first opposition force in the Catalonian Parliament, joining the fear strategy by four votes. We were wrong when we said that you were the People's Party crutch; we have seen these days that you are the right wing of the People's Party, not the crutch, the right wing of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] They are so extremist, so radical on the Catalan issue that they were left alone the other day in the vote on the motion against the Catalan school. [[Several Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group make negative gestures]] See if you are extremists and radicals, not even the People's Party supported you. They promised not to support Rajoy and now they will support, whatever they do, the government. You, who said you were coming to regenerate politics, are swallowing all the corruption cases of the People's Party. You are a factor of involution, not of regeneration but of democratic involution, you are pyromaniacs, you are part of the problem, not of the solution. His first battle was against the language, linguistic normalization in Catalonia, a basic, founding element of Catalan reality, a right of all citizens of Catalonia - to know Catalan and Spanish perfectly - then charged against the school. And now, against what, against the economy, Mr Roldán? You, who are so concerned about the market - we too - and about the economy, I want to tell you that the lack of dialogue, the lack of negotiation and the lack of a democratic exit are uneconomical, they harm businesses, they harm the economy. The best economic measure in Catalonia right now would be to generate trust and not fear, to generate security and not insecurity, and the only way to create economic stability is to negotiate. If they want to solve the Catalan issue in the courts and in the Civil Guard barracks, all they are going to do is create instability, so it is essential that there is dialogue and negotiation; 155 only creates more instability, you know how you get into 155 but not how you get out. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] The Socialist Party and the People's Party have reached an agreement, the Socialist Party will endorse the punitive strategy of the Government in exchange for a six-month study committee, a committee of experts. And I'm going to tell you something: either reform of the Constitution or 155; both things are impossible. What can be reformed with the self-government of Catalonia suspended? The dialogue or 155, or alliance with Rajoy or democratic solution. Lords of the Socialist Party, the two things are not possible, it is a shame to see a party of deeply Catalanist and leftist people, such as Joan Raventós and Pascual Maragall, being an accomplice to those who broke the constitutional pact, the territorial pact of the Statue, of those who have demonstrated manifest inability to solve the Catalan problem, of those who want to destroy Catalonia's self-government and end autonomy. [[Applauds]] It is shameful, regrettable that the Socialist Party is in the authoritarian bloc and not in the democratic bloc in favour of a democratic exit, because that has to be the objective. Please, let's end the epistolary genre, less letters, more dialogue and more negotiation. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u44	Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u45	Mr Vendrell, I don't know how a leftist party, which you are supposed to represent, has more anger with corruption than with corruption of others.What happens, that nationalist supremacism doesn't seem bad enough and corruption of some, because they are Spanish, is worse than that of others, because they are Catalans? Or how is the game, Mr. Vendrell, how is your way of rationalizing this matter? [[Applauds]] [[Rumors]] I'm not going to stretch out much longer. You have spoken about democracy and dialogue; right now in Catalonia, after a coup, we have a suspended Parliament, a closed Parliament in which the Democrats cannot speak. That's democracy. [[Applauds]] What my party is asking is to find a way, a constitutional way, to return to democracy, because the vote to vote three, four and five times in a referendum, even if you think it is democracy, nowhere in the world is democracy! [[Applauds]] Democracy is achieved through elections, where we all have equal participation, where there is a neutral electoral panel, where it is independently supervised, where we all vote freely and without coercion. That is democracy and that is what my party defends against the coups that you are defending in this House. [[Applauds]] As I have seen that you have not addressed any of the fundamental economic issues that you raised with regard to your support for the economy, I am not going to expand further. I just wanted to thank the minister again for facilitating that the Catalan economy, my economy and the economy of many of us here, could have survived because probably without this royal decree, if we had Mr. Garzón as a counselor or Mr. Vendrell, right now we would have a corralito in Catalonia and we would probably be very close to the same level of crisis and giant uncertainty that we were unfortunately in 2012 and then they are the ones who say they want to defend the savers and the workers. [[A lady MP: Liar!-The rumors continue]] The only way to defend savers and workers is by allowing the economy to function within legal certainty, banks to borrow from the European Central Bank and economic stability. What happens is that you don't understand any of that and you don't care at all about it. I mean, that's what I'm staying with. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u46	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mr Salvador Armendáriz, takes part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Congressman Roldán recalled a video of Mr. Mas saying that companies would never leave Catalonia and that they would come much more because they are not Sisters of Charity, but that they look after their interests. Yesterday Mr Tardà told the Vice-President not to drown the others economically in Catalonia, that is, in addition to stealing them, we drowned them. And I've seen a video of assamblea.cat - which I don't even know what it is - in which an individual comes out saying it's okay for all companies to leave because they're practically mobsters. It's my idea to say, "There's no worse blinder than the one who doesn't want to see!" I would ask Members who want to break up Spain, firstly, not to make us responsible for their own decisions and secondly, not to deceive the citizens. What, you didn't see what was going to happen? Or worse: did they know what was going to happen and honestly don't care? For my party, we are experiencing a painful moment and this exodus of companies is still a tragedy, and of course a tragedy for everyone. If I came here being a ruling party in a community and after making a political decision it turns out that hundreds of companies left my community, I don't know what face I would sit here to blame others - honestly I tell you -. I do not think there is anything good about this political drift, nothing good about putting at risk the viability of the main financial institutions in Catalonia, of course, and neither does it create an unnecessary shambles in companies that not only live together in Spain, an open, dynamic and fraternal Spain, but compete with far greater emotional intelligence and less glaring, less victimism and less childishness than some politicians and some political options in this House. Minister, I understand that companies need certainty and tranquillity, and what they are asking us to do is to ensure a single market, open, without interference or patriotic distortions; and I believe that we have a duty to guarantee it, and they have a right not to harm their interests, of course, it is our primary duty. It gives me the feeling that some thought that everything would be martialally put at the service of the breakup, and it is not. Sometimes freedom should also have meaning. Today we have to endorse, and we do so because we think it is appropriate and appropriate and, in any case, what we want is for this situation not to continue and for all this damage to continue, correct who has to rectify and in the future those companies that have left Catalonia to return with normality, with calm and with guarantee as soon as possible to Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u48	Thank you. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today the Government brings us the validation of a royal decree that is but another tool in its repressive madness towards the Catalan people. Why? For having a government that has decided to put in ballot boxes to consult its people and respect the decision that they have freely and democratically taken. It is this logic that will lead them on Saturday to apply Article 155 and before that, from Euskal Herria Bildu, from the Basque sovereignist left, we have nothing but solidarity and commitment of support for the Catalan people. Today they bring us a validation of a real decree that we obviously do not share and that tells us about the transfer of registered offices; it would be good if we were also clear of factories, bank branches or facilities that provide services, because that would remove the doubt that I am going to pose to you. Does the transfer of a registered office have any political effect on Catalan citizenship? Are there workers who are forced to move? Is there a problem with conducting ordinary banking operations? There is a professor of economics who few days ago in La Vanguardia said that the relocation of a head office in principle does not mean any change. A head office can be a four-square-metre office with a telephone and a caller. Don't you have anything to say to this in response? This leads us to ask another question. Is it not that the purpose of your Government, and of you as an executioner, is only to instil an unfounded panic in the civilian population? In other words, is it not that you are trying to draw political results by threatening the common Catalans and Catalans? On the other hand, threats have been registered for other companies to abandon their head office in Catalonia. The chairman of the company committee of Seat Martorell denounced yesterday political and monarchical pressures - for what the Bourbons have left! - against that company. [[Applauds]] The Consellera Bassa denounced direct calls to companies to move their headquarters, and that most companies have contacted the Government and said that they did so on a temporary basis because of the pressures they received. The question is, do you have any record of this extortion? Who is blackmailing companies and for what reasons? Do you approve of these pressures and coercions on companies? In conclusion, we have only two possibilities for this which they are doing: that their decree is a punishment against Catalan workers, that in this case they will turn against them because their punishment also affects workers who are probably not for independence, or a second option, most likely, that their decree has no effect on Catalan workers and that, in fact, all this is nothing more than a propaganda operation to intimidate the Catalan people. The two options, let me tell you, demonstrate your clumsiness and guarantee your defeat once again. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u51	Thank you very much, President. First, to note that the Citizens' Group has not used the turn in favour of this royal decree, it has used a turn that does not appear in the Rules, which is the turn of hatred and demagogy. [[Applauds]] On the subject, Minister, the reasons for the extraordinary urgency of this royal decree are not those which appear in the royal decree or those which you have established in the first intervention; the real reasons are those which have appeared in the turn against. The real reason is the October 1 referendum. The real reason is: the ballot papers, the ballot boxes, which did not exist, and which existed, the voters who existed and the millions of Catalans who went to vote. And what justifies this royal decree is the referendum that his Government promised it would not exist. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] This is the reality. Minister, I don't know if you realize this, but with this royal decree you give the highest credibility to Catalonia's independence. [[Applauds]] The Spanish State, when Catalonia declares its independence, will not recognise it, and you are sure that no country in the European Union will recognise it and that the European Union will not recognize it. Then, according to its legality, with the legality of the European Union, Catalonia will continue to be the European Union and will continue to be Spain. What is the reason for companies to move their registered office, rather than their business? Just one, and you have said it with your words: for companies to vote with their feet, for companies to influence politically what is happening in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] What they did not get in the pre-campaign they want to get in the post-campaign of the referendum, that companies position themselves politically, because technically it has no motivation, it doesn't make any sense. Moreover, Minister, by this rule you do not deceive, you expropriate the partners, you expropriate the shareholders their capacity, your decision regarding the location of the registered office, because those societies that had decided to retain the power of their partners to decide - I am finishing, Madam President - were forbidden. In any case, Minister, changes in your registered office are not changes in your activity or changes in your business. The change of registered office, which costs 80 euros, today is from here to there and tomorrow is from there to here. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Keep that in mind. You have remembered the hundreds of companies that have changed their registered office and I will simply remember the more than 260 000 companies that have not changed their registered office in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u52	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u53	Good morning. Egun on. Thank you, President. Today they bring us here for validation the Decree-Law of 6 October, to facilitate the change of the company's registered office, a change that, from our point of view, does not meet a legal or economic criterion. In its explanatory statement it points out that at times strategic decisions of companies require the transfer of registered office, to add that in the current context these decisions can be motivated by the special circumstances that characterize the time when this rule will come into force. Whatever these special circumstances may be, they should be explained in the actual text of the royal decree-law itself or in the exhibition that you have made here today. While in principle you have only said that they were in response to a request from many companies, in your reply to Mr Garzón you have said so more explicitly, but the reasons you have given have been reasons based on a hypothetical situation that has not yet been given and in which your Government has much to say. It is a decree which for us owes more to a measure of pressure from the Executive, as a result of the situation in Catalonia, and sets in motion a policy of uncertainty which, of course, is not a good companion for travel neither for economic stability nor for political stability. The place of residence for legal persons, as a place for the exercise of their rights and the fulfilment of their obligations, is one of the fundamental elements at the time of their establishment and, therefore, must be stated in their statutes, and as part of the latter their modification is the responsibility of the general meeting of shareholders. It should be remembered, as the Minister has also said today, that in 1956, 1989 and 2010 it was already said that, unless there were provisions contrary to the statutes, the change of domicile within the same municipal term could be agreed by the administrative body. Also in 2015, with a law dealing with urgent measures of competition reform, this competence was extended to the administrative body throughout the national territory, provided that there was no provision contrary to the statutes. That is, the administrative body was already competent to make this change in 2015, as it was sufficient to make a statutory change, which some companies, such as Sabadell, had already done and were therefore prepared for any contingency. But it is also because a controversy has arisen, which I am not going to reproduce at the moment, that there is a resolution of the Directorate-General for Registers and Notaries which allows that, even if this legal change does not appear expressly in the statutes, the administrative body could decide whenever there is an express mention in its rules that the existing legislation would apply. Therefore, those companies that needed this decree as water of May could also have accepted not only the reform of 2015, but also this resolution if they had been predictors, because a company, when drawing up its statutes, must not conform to standard statutes, but must assess all the risks so that through them they can solve most of the problems that may arise, both in legal traffic and in the economic one. It is also in this year 2015, when the change takes place, when the government itself justified the importance of leaving in the hands of the ownership and the general boards of shareholders the approval of something as sensitive and linked to the spirit of enterprise and its administrative centers, as is the social and fiscal domicile. [[Rumors]] That is why today we should ask ourselves what has changed now to propitiate this express change, because if, as the Government has repeatedly said, the rule of law is guaranteed, nothing is going to happen, there is not going to be a unilateral declaration of independence, there is going to be no consequence, why they have consented and cooperated by drawing up an ad hoc decree opening the door to an express change of headquarters without going through the filter of a general meeting. The companies, I recall again, could make the change of this headquarters with the 2015 reform, that yes, they would need more time and, of course, go through the agreement of their shareholders. It has to be said that a change in the headquarters of Catalan companies has a minimal tax impact because the main taxes or are of a state nature and does not generate any more employment or income for the new autonomous communities... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u54	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u55	... on which the new head office of these companies rests, unless there is an effective transfer of the workplaces and, suddenly, there is no relocation of the means of production. Therefore, do you believe that contributing with this decree to the flight of companies, as some media call it, to a change of headquarters, which does not involve a change in workplaces and generates a situation of social alarm in the face of a hypothetical situation is the image that is to be given to the world? Is it good for the economy in general? Because it must be borne in mind that the Catalan and Spanish economies are, of course, interdependent, and that the market does not differentiate the origin of companies. Having said all this, our group is going to vote against the validation of this decree, in short, for several reasons, because the fixing of the registered office is not baladi, since the company law itself defines it as the place where the centre of its effective administration and management is located or where its own operating centre is located; because it is not due to a need of the companies nor to a legal necessity, but rather to a political necessity in the face of a certain hypothetical situation; because with the regulation of 2015 it was sufficient for the administrative body of the companies to agree on a change of registered office adjusting their statutes; because both the company law and the unified code of voluntary recommendations of the National Securities Market Commission... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u56	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u57	... establish the general board as the supreme body in the making of corporate decisions; then this decree seems to be somewhat opposed to the principles of corporate governance and transparency, because it endangers the rights of shareholders and reduces their ability to act, because, ultimately, it gives a free bar so that any company with head office not only in Catalonia, but in any territory can exit it and fix its legal domicile in another autonomous community by jumping to its board of shareholders; because there can also be corporate conflicts arising from the new area of decision and execution of the administrative body; because this measure is due more to a use of the markets as a pressure measure, against sovereignism and the Catalan situation, than to a need of the companies, and because the freedom of enterprise of article 38 of the Constitution, to which you mentioned, was already guaranteed with the reform of 2015. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u58	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u59	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, we join the complaint about the fascist harassment at home and about the family of the Vice President of Valencia. [[A Huge Embrace]] [[Applauds]] Secondly, Minister, last night it was made public that the chairman of the SEAT Martorell company committee denounced political and monarchical pressures for SEAT to change its head office. It will agree with me that this would be extremely serious, this would be an unacceptable political interference in any modern free market economy. I understand that it matters a lot that today - here, if possible - you either deny or disallow anyone who has made those so-called "gasteriles" of other times, because thousands of jobs depend on your responsibility. You will remember that a few months ago the former Minister of Industry, Energy and Tourism, Mr Soria, literally acknowledged that the electricity companies came to the ministry with the decrees already drafted. The Government, therefore, had only to fine-tune these decrees and implement them so that they could be published in the BOE. - I make a parenthesis: Surely the subject of another debate would be behavior, we would have to think, if it is cause or effect of the known rotating doors -. The case is that the actual decree that we are discussing today allows us to evoke the case of the Soria decrees, intuiting the clear how companies in the financial or energy sector - in short, companies in regulated sectors - come to your ministry with decrees written to measure by your legal cabinets and your Government approves them naturally. I am sorry, but nothing is opposed to assuming that this is what has happened with the actual decree that is being discussed today, which only conceals that companies will be able to move their corporate home to their liking - but not to the liking of their shareholders, but to the taste of their boards of directors - with the only, spurious and at the same time reckless in order to frighten citizens, companies and investors with the seven plagues of Egypt that would bring us the independence of Catalonia. In this sense, the connivance of the PSOE is explained. Today they bring to validate the House the 'A for them!' with a white collar, padded with a mutual scratching of the back between politics and economy of BOE. I'll scrape your back and make it easy for you to argue that companies are marching from Independence Catalonia, and you scratch my back and make it easy for me to relocate home without having to ask my shareholders, it's not going to be an expoliation. What's the result? You say that almost 800 companies have moved their headquarters to Catalonia. Do you know how many there are in Catalonia, Mr Roldán? There are 260,000 companies. You who always speak of the silent majority, read the communiqués of Pimec and Cecot and you will hear the silent majority of Catalan SMEs. [[Applauds]] Do it, please, before drawing dantesque landscapes that time will tell if they are fulfilled or not. [[Rumors]] I had a brief parenthesis to highlight the legal 'fist' that I will shorten for having been widely argued. Obviously, this measure is opposed to the most basic European and Spanish principles of transparency and corporate governance. We shall see what the European Union tells you about its proposals. It is now clear that you, on behalf of the lords of IBEX 35, take away the power of the shareholders, the real owners of the companies, and their decision-making capacity transfer it to corporate administrators, which is a clear way of disempowering the owners of the companies. Furthermore, the reasons for the change of registered office are not substantiated, Minister. The legal security of companies, whatever happens, is fully guaranteed in Catalonia by many campaigns of fear that they want to impose. What all Catalan and Spanish citizens can see with this decree is that you have no inconvenience or scrupulousness to subordinate the good progress of the economy to political interests and act against the Catalan economy even at the cost of launching messages of instability and uncertainty, ignoring that in economy everything is cross-reputes. These messages are collected and amplified from Moody's - I will quote it if I have more time - passing through Bloomberg, which yesterday editorialized 'Abandon the ultimatum of 155' - I have a lot of quotes; then I give you the text so that you can reproduce it - and arriving - minister, pass on - to the very cover of L ́Osservatore Romano. [[Show a copy of a press clipping]] You are covered in L ́Osservatore Romano three days in a row between last week and yesterday day 18. Minister, you are pleased that IBEX 35 companies have at the beginning of this year 696 subsidiaries in tax havens, and you have been unable to write a single royal decree to tax in your country! [[Applauds]] But, in a single day and with a single call, you have enough to pass this decree, by which companies can arrange the change of registered office without the agreement of their shareholders, thinking only of the bold holder - who flee Catalonia - to harm our economy, regardless of the damage they are causing also in the Spanish economy. Instead of posing a win-win scenario, you prefer to sink the boats. What was it like about the ships and the honor? Minister, we do not need to go beyond Orion to say that we have seen things we never thought we would see. In Catalonia - all over the world it has been seen - companies and investors have been able to see what does not create a good climate for the Catalan economy; nor does it generate a good economic climate that the Spanish Government says everything will go very badly, or that the Minister of Finance is invented without any concrete data that can reaffirm his words that thousands of jobs will be lost, or that the Minister of Health claims that billions of banks have withdrawn when they decide to leave Catalonia. It is not a good thing for the economy that you, Mr De Guindos, are repeating that twice the GDP that was lost in the Civil War will be lost, without mentioning any studies that can reinforce your words. It is clear that companies can be located wherever they want – it would be more difficult! – as well as that customers have the right to put their assets where they create more convenient. And, if I may - and with the pleasure of the President - I will end with optimism, and by proposing perhaps the only point in my speech at which we may coincide, I will paraphrase Martorell's great philosopher: The Catalan economy always rebounds and survives its illustrious burials. The Catalan economy always bursts and survives its illustrious buryers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u60	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Milla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by talking about the real decree, which is ultimately the issue that brings us here today, a real decree in which the statement of reasons refers to that for decades - since the 1950s of the last century - it was established that the transfer of domicile of a society, within the same population, could be carried out without the agreement of the general meeting, unless the social statutes said otherwise. This was also reflected in the subsequent Laws of Anonymous Societies of 1989, and Capital Societies, which were passed in 2010. It was just over two years ago, in 2015 - as the Minister has said - when the competence of the administrative body was extended to changes of registered office within the Spanish territory, provided that there was no contrary provision in the statutes. The purpose of this legal change - as was said - was to accelerate the registration in the Business Register of companies in a context of increasing their geographical mobility. However, the fact that the statutes of many companies continue to assign to the general meeting the power to agree on the change of registered office is sometimes interpreted... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u62	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u63	Thank you, President. This has sometimes been interpreted as a provision contrary to the recognition of such competence by the administrative body, and this has prevented the regulatory change agreed in 2015 from achieving its intended purpose. All this makes little sense, since generally the forecast in the social statutes is nothing more than a mere transcription of what was provided for in the trade legislation prior to the 2015 reform, established in order to show that the will of the partners is to be subject to the supplementary regime in force at all times. Accordingly, it could be considered that such a provision to the contrary exists only when the statutes have been amended following a regulatory change to depart expressly from the supplementary legal regime. So what the royal decree seeks is to clarify the drafting of the Capital Societies Act in order to speed up, as originally intended, changes of registered office in the Spanish territory. It has been necessary to provide legal certainty in order to prevent possible interpretative divergences from delaying the effectiveness of the transfer of domicile within the Spanish territory in a context in which, as we have seen in recent days, there has been a marked increase in the societal movements from Catalonia to the rest of Spain as a result of the uncertainty and the increase in the perception of risks generated by the so-called independence process. In a few days Catalonia has ceased to be the head office of more than eight hundred companies, companies from virtually all sectors that add up to tens of thousands of employees and accumulate a turnover of billions of euros and that include innovative and cutting-edge sectors, such as the biotechnology and digital sectors, as well as sectors that are often considered strategic, such as insurer, financial, energy, water supply, etc. We will probably end up knowing, ladies and gentlemen, with official data and not mere rumours such as those in the media, to what extent financial institutions, originally domiciled in Catalonia, have faced liquidity problems during the last few days as a result of the withdrawal of deposits, and how the support of the European Central Bank - the appeal to the European Central Bank has multiplied in the last few days as we can know in aggregate terms - has avoided major problems. There are those who hope that these changes in social domicile are simply administrative, temporary, reversible changes, which do not have a real effect on the economy, but we must not be fooled; first, because the change in social domicile is the result of increased uncertainty and the perception of the risk of the Catalan economy, and this in itself is already causing damage to economic activity which will eventually result in job losses. Moreover, the change of social domicile itself confirms the loss of reputation that the so-called independence process is causing in the Catalan economy as an attractive space for investment and business development, and when this reputational mortgage appears it is very difficult to raise. When a government has no problem in saying that it is willing to miss the current legality, we should not be surprised that neither companies nor investors trust that government, and this makes it more likely that the change of registered office will open the door afterwards to other localization decisions, such as the relocation of the operational headquarters or the commitment to new locations to develop new business lines or expand those that already exist. It is normal for companies to want to dilute the weight of the business that generates their activities that are carried out in areas considered to be of greater risk or uncertainty, generating an inertia that ends up causing decisions to change location to become firm and irreversible. This was demonstrated by Quebec's experience following the corporate exodus that produced its own secessionist tensions and, although in the end, Quebec did not follow the path of independence, from the eight banks that were there years later only one maintains its headquarters in Quebec. Some seven hundred large companies left Quebec and never returned, and Montreal entered a decadence phase from which Toronto benefited most of the time. The situation in Catalonia is so serious that perhaps there has not been enough emphasis on the contradiction of the fact that the defenders of independence are betting on building a new country in which virtually all companies in the strategic sectors would be foreign, something that today does not like more than the defenders of free trade without any kind of interference, it does not like more than those who consider that the world should not be more than a huge planetary market where no matter where the company's social domicile is located. This new state would be, if it were born, in economic terms much more dependent on the outside, infinitely more dependent on the outside in economic terms than Catalonia is today in the rest of Spain. The quimera of independence, ladies and gentlemen, is based on a cluster of false promises that threaten to drag Catalonia into a new era, the era of lost opportunities; a drift that we must face from that legality that some want to jump, betting on reforming the legal framework with the instruments that legality itself provides, rather than being outside it or against it, because legality forces us all, ladies and gentlemen, also in terms of the ways and procedures to change it. And allow me, Madam President, to end with a quote from George Washington, of the first president of the United States, who was also the leader of the independence of the United States when it was a colony of the great British empire, and who in his farewell speech, as president after his second term, said: The basis of our political system is the right of the people to make or alter their constitutions of government, but the Constitution that exists at any time, until it is changed by an authentic and explicit act of the whole people, is sacredly binding on all, because the very idea of the power and the right of the people to establish a government presupposes the duty of each individual to obey the established government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u64	For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Palmer Tous.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u65	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I would like to express the revulsion of my parliamentary group to all the slaves, including that which they made to the Minister of Health, which nobody here has mentioned. [[Applauds]] The Government is now bringing in a decree-law aimed at developing a new framework to speed up the mobility of enterprises within the national territory. The first consideration I want to make here is obvious. It is not a question of forcing, but of facilitating such mobility whenever the company makes that decision. In other words, it is a question of making a free business decision more effective. The relevant question is not why this decree-law now, because the answer is obvious: it has been the business sectors themselves that have asked the government for this change to facilitate their relocation from headquarters given the difficulties that live in Catalonia. Here the relevant question, I believe, is how we have come to this scenario in which the companies themselves want to leave a region as prosperous as Catalonia, and the answer is that the Catalan Government, radicalized by its partners in Esquerra and the CUP and obsessed as it is with this delusional and illegal objective of independence, has completely abandoned its functions, the functions that every ruler must fulfil, that is, to fight the crisis, to work for economic growth and employment and, therefore, for the maintenance and improvement of the welfare state. That's right. Instead of ruling, they have dedicated themselves to promising an impossible independence, generating a dynamic that has pushed them and all into an unsustainable situation from the economic point of view and social coexistence. Meanwhile, what has the People's Party government done? For what belongs to every sensible ruler, work intensively to combat the crisis and achieve economic recovery throughout the national territory, including Catalonia. Specifically, the Government of the nation has specifically supported the Government of the Generalitat by paying dues for its debt, a debt... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u66	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u67	...that no one was financing. Let's remember, no one lent the Generalitat a hard time, it's worth remembering. This was the only way to finance basic public services and to charge suppliers. It was therefore avoided that Catalan citizens had to pay for the mistakes of their rulers. In short, the Government of Spain has devoted itself to solving the real problems of the citizens, of all, including those of the Catalans, while others are dedicated to generating these problems obsessed with their great vital goal, secession, without majority support, unilaterally and, above all, outside the existing legality. Yesterday the ruling of the Constitutional Court was very clear. Once we are clear that this drift means acting outside the rule of law and is a failure of social coexistence, I would like to reflect on the consequences of this journey initiated by the Generalitat. The irresponsibility of those who challenge legality has consequences of all kinds, but today I am going to focus on the economic consequences, and that secessionist drift has consequences on economic growth and employment. This same week, the growth forecast for 2018 has been lowered due to the situation in Catalonia and the Airef yesterday said that Catalonia would go into recession in 2018 if it follows this drift, and no longer talked about tourism figures, because they are quite depressing. Therefore, we are not talking about virtual figures, about possible effects, we are talking about real effects. [[Applauds]] Only by putting a first piece of information on the table that is intensely affecting growth - it has already been mentioned - should Catalonia become independent, would Catalonia cease to be part of the European Union and, therefore, of all the agreements signed by the European Union, including the World Trade Organisation, and would of course also cease to be part of the euro. I repeat it here because it's worth remembering. Don't be fooled, leaving Spain means leaving the European Union and leaving the euro. In particular, what does it mean for Catalonia to be outside the European Union? For example, 75% of their companies' exports - which would no longer be part of the World Trade Organisation - would be subject to high tariffs, which would have a very negative impact on their foreign trade and, given the weight of the foreign sector for many Catalan companies, would have a powerful impact on GDP and employment growth. On the other hand, what does it mean to be outside the euro? Something important, that financial institutions would lose access to the resources of the European Central Bank - which is not a small one - but, above all, that the clients of these institutions would lose the protection of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. And I guess that's what Catalan citizens know because many of them - quite a few - have moved up to EUR 4 billion from their deposits outside Catalonia. In financial terms, I would also like to recall one detail, the corralito that would have to be imposed in Catalonia after independence, according to the CUP itself, in order to avoid the massive leak of deposits and finance the anxious republic. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the real cost of the secessionist adventure is very high. The minister has already reported it. An independent Catalonia is born broken, with an impoverished population of around 30% or 40%, rising unemployment, with a breakdown of the welfare state and an unsustainable public deficit. And one detail, it's not to be frightened, but with a powerful buying loss of pensions. With data in hand, 4.5 billion annual deficits that are paid by the single state fund, therefore, a Catalonia outside Spain would assume that each Catalan pensioner would lose about 2600 euros per year, an average of 216 euros per month. Please tell your elders. Given this encouraging scenario, what do companies expect to do? Well, obviously, run away. The Catalan independenceists proclaimed that the companies wanted to settle in an independent Catalonia. All companies will want to come to Catalonia, they said; well, the reality, the pure bath of reality, is that there has been a massive flight of companies, some of which, by the way, are of some illustrious names of the trial itself. All the IBEX companies, less Grifols, and hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises, have changed their headquarters, which is true that in volume they can be few compared to the total, but in terms of GDP they represent more than 50 %. A detail, in the face of this avalanche of corporate flight, some have wanted to console themselves by talking about going to the Catalan countries. Well, Mr Junqueras, Alicante is Spain and Balearics is Spain; don't be fooled, there we have it very clear. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that companies move freely, seek legal certainty and flee the abyss. The Spanish Government, with the adoption of this decree, has done nothing but facilitate the effectiveness of a free business decision and has done so with a final goal, curbing a bloodthirsty of deposits that was endangering the confidence of the entire financial system and curbing the legal uncertainty generated. Ladies and gentlemen of the Catalan Government, of Podemos, the one who leaves one hundred and fifty companies a day in Catalonia cannot attribute it to the approval of this decree or to the will of this government. It's absolutely absurd. You cannot blame others; it is only you who are responsible for this situation. Please return to the legal order; return to the seny and let's all work together for Catalonia and Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u68	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the appreciation and respect I have for Mr Bel and Mr Capdevila, I think I should reply to him and make a number of considerations according to his speech. First of all, Mr Bel and Mr Capdevila, I will tell you that it hurts me to leave eight hundred companies in Catalonia, it hurts me a lot, and I hope you will too. Ultimately, I know that this exodus of companies shows the contradictions of the policy of the Government of the Generalitat. Make no mistake about the culprits, this royal decree has nothing to do with those eight hundred companies that have left. The real reason for their escape is, I repeat, the irresponsible policy of the Government of the Generalitat. Don't have the slightest doubt that there hasn't been any pressure. [[Mr. Capdevila i Esteve makes a phone call gesture with his hand]] I have not called anyone at all and I am convinced that no one has called anyone. I say again, do not create doubts and uncertainties about a flight and an exodus of companies that I fully understand that they do not like because it makes clear the enormous contradictions and irrationality of the policy of the Government of the Generalitat. Have we also called for the reduction of tourism reserves or the reduction of car sales by 20% or 25% or the drop of sales of large warehouses by 15% to 20% or the withdrawal of deposits? Because as soon as the two banks announced the change of their home immediately the situation changed, Mr Bel and Mr Capdevila. Do not overvalue me, do not overvalue the capacity of the Government. [[Applauds]] Have a little rationality and common sense. Don't be so blind. Finally, think about the costs this has for Catalan society. I used to say that we have a figure of between 25% and 30% of GDP falling as a result of independence. Do you know how much Greece's GDP fell during the crisis? 26.5 per cent. With regard to the war data - which you say was during World War II - I will tell you that what happens during a war is a change in the composition of GDP, that is, non-military GDP falls by 75% and military GDP increases by 50%. That's not the reference. The reference is, for example, the impoverishment that occurred in Greece, which did not come to leave the euro, but which, as you know, endured a corralite, a fall in investment and a sharp deterioration in expectations. That is the fundamental reference. I am not giving, nor anyone gives, letter of nature to independence, independence will not take place, but there are two considerations I will make to you. The first is that economic operators often act out of expectations and, in this case - not the expectation of independence, because, I repeat, the Spanish Government will take all measures to ensure that this does not happen and that territorial integrity is fully respected and the Constitution is respected - companies are essentially leaving because they are seeing the irrationality of their policies. You are able to break all the principles of legality and the rule of law and - as I said earlier and I repeat - legality is not a divisible concept, if someone violates one part of it, what guarantee we have that others will not be violated in the coming weeks. The truth is that you have not shown much respect for the rule of law or for the basic rules of democracy in recent times. Therefore, Mr Bel and Mr Capdevila, think, and since you are representatives, you are Members for Catalonia, let your parliamentary groups see that you know of this, that you know the consequences of what you are doing and that, indeed, you reconsider and return to legality so that we end the torture to which the Government of the Generalitat is leading us. Thank you so much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u70	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u71	We continue with the amendments approved by the Senate to the Public Sector Contracts Bill, which transposes into Spanish law the directives of the European Parliament and the Council 2014/23 and 2014/24 of 26 February 2014. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u72	Thank you, President. Egun on. Good morning. Public procurement is a major economic activity that offers the public authorities the possibility to carry out cross-cutting policies and, of course, to influence the achievement of public purposes of general interest other than the very purpose of each individual contract, but with the virtuality of improving its quality and without exceeding the limits imposed by the obligation to respect the general principles governing procurement. [[The Lord]] In this context, it must be recognized that the Government's preliminary draft has been improved because many amendments have been incorporated, many of them negotiated with the rest of the political groups. In short, it is a law practically agreed to by 90% in a paper, that of Congress, where predisposition, will and agreement have prevailed. We have negotiated, we have agreed and all the groups have given way to a law which is therefore adapted to the objectives of the Community directives. But I also have to say that when the law has been referred to the Senate, what was our surprise? That the PP group itself has amended three articles that had been unanimously adopted in the Congressional presentation. Of course, it will not be us who say that amendments cannot be tabled in the Senate, a House that has, and must have, the possibility of improving the law, either through new amendments or by amending others, but what we do not think is right for a party that has given its vote in favour of the presentation of the Congress and whose result has been the approval, I repeat, by unanimity of the same. What happened, that when they discussed them they didn't know the scope of them? They are amendments which, by the way, are not technical because they are all intended to allow public procurement to comply with the applicable collective agreements, i.e. the collective enterprise agreement, without taking into account that on many occasions such agreements have been made in order, after a downturn, to significantly reduce essential working conditions for workers, including wages. What is at heart here is a problem concerning the consortia of collective agreements provided for in Articles 82, 83 and 85 of the Workers' Statute, which in its last reform establishes the prevalence of the enterprise agreement on higher-level agreements and which, we are not mistaken, are generally superior to the enterprise agreement since, as I have pointed out on many occasions, they have been detached from the sector with much more unfavourable conditions for workers. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u73	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u74	The application of the sectoral collective agreement in the field of public procurement is not a whim. The directive itself requires States to lay down specific rules to ensure that labour law is complied with in a broad sense. Thus, for example, it is inferred from Article 69.5 of Directive 24/2014 or also from recital 98, which states that the criteria for awarding the conditions for the performance of a contract should be applied in accordance with Directive 96/71/EC so that the social aspects must respect the basic conditions covered by that Directive, such as the amounts of wages. In addition, European Directive 96/71/EC on the posting of workers provides that Member States shall ensure that, irrespective of the legislation applicable to the employment relationship, undertakings ensure to posted workers on their territory the working and employment conditions relating to the following matters which, in the Member State where the work is carried out, are laid down by: laws, regulations or administrative provisions, and/or by collective agreements or arbitration awards declared to be of general application. Article 3.8 provides that collective agreements or arbitral awards declared to be of general application shall mean collective agreements which must be respected by all undertakings belonging to the sector or profession concerned and which fall within the scope of their territorial application. In short, we are not going to support the PP's amendments in the public sector basically for several reasons: because allowing the application of the company agreement would allow the fraudulent use of these in order to significantly reduce the working conditions, especially wages, of workers without contracts, and especially those in which labour is intensively used; because we must prevent possible manoeuvres on the part of competing companies to reduce abnormally or disproportionately the prices and costs linked to the contract, to the detriment of the rights of workers and competition between tenderers; because the Community directives tell us that in any case the working conditions agreed in universally applicable collective agreements must be respected, transferring that the minimum wage established in each productive sector as a single and uniform rule for the whole market is respected; because, moreover, the agreement of the political groups has not been respected since, as I said earlier, those articles were negotiated and voted unanimously in Congress and, moreover, because our group is consistent with the position adopted by this working group against reform 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u77	One moment, Mr. Navarro, one moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u78	Thank you again, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of the three amendments which deal with the same subject and we are going to do so because by referring to the convention which is applicable, it seems to us to be a more neutral wording. This prevents a rule of labour law from being modified by one of administrative law and also by the back door. We agree to sit down and study all the labour law reforms that are needed, taking into account the changing social reality. But, as I say, it is not right for us to do so through the back door and neither is it right for us to create a specific regime of administrative procurement legislation governing different labour law rules than for the rest of the contracts. I would also like to say that here some of us will vote in favour and others against, but this should not upset the work done. Ladies and gentlemen, since this project came to the House, we have defended its importance, we have argued that it should not be treated as a mere bureaucratic adaptation to European directives, but should be used to make in-depth reform. What we are talking about here is simply the correct use of public money. When public procurement does not work, when there is no transparency, when there is the capture of contracting bodies by economic agents, when it is used for different purposes to meet public needs, when there is no competition, there is a field paid for corruption, both for hard corruption - what has been the financing of parties and agents involved in the process, which we hope has been relegated to oblivion - as for the soft - which is the partyist or electoral use of recruitment, which I fear is not relegated to oblivion - there is what in South America is called the capitalism of comrades and which here we have sometimes called the capitalism of amiguetes. Therefore, the reform of the Contract Law is one of the three levers that we want to use to banish corruption and amigoism, to end the capitalism of comrades. One of these three levers is currently being worked on in the Committee on Development, which is to secure the signing of a major infrastructure pact, with which we want to move away from the politicization of investment decisions in infrastructure; something easier to say than to achieve, but we are on it. The second of the levers is on horseback between the Development Commission and the Contracts Act. An amendment to this effect has already been adopted in the general budgets of 2017, concerning the establishment and establishment of a national evaluation office, which should be responsible for evaluating infrastructures with criteria not only for economic sustainability but also for socio-economic profitability. The third of the legs - I would like to highlight it - has been achieved with this law. '...a draft contract law on public services in order to establish certain healthy barriers, avoiding abuses that are easy to commit in a matter of dangerous stimuli...' This is what the first Public Procurement Act of 1852 in Spain said. We've been making similar mistakes for a hundred and sixty years. Ladies and gentlemen, all the problems and abuses in public procurement have been attempted to curb by making more bureaucracy. We've got a law that's a mastodon based on getting more bureaucracy in. We have focused on it in another way, we have focused on it by creating an independent supervisor, an independent authority that regulates, that is able to issue binding instructions and that oversees the recruitment. And this is not something we have invented; we were asked by the European Union. We're very satisfied with this. We are also very pleased with everything that has been amended, because here there has been work by all the groups, there has been consensus work and there has been a serious desire to reach agreements by all the groups present in the paper. And we are pleased with the work done on SMEs. We have been very concerned about opening up the procurement market to SMEs, and we have done so, for example, by ensuring that batch division is the norm. And, in addition, we have been concerned to avoid the abuse of payment to contractors; it did not make much sense for the Law on late payment to be made by the Administration to the principal contractor, but the payment to the subcontractor was rejected. Well, we have done such important things as not accepting the possibility of the agreement between the parties agreeing on deadlines beyond those established by the Law of lateness, we have helped to enhance the use of the electronic invoice, we have established the obligation on the part of the Administration to verify the payment to subcontractors in certain cases and we have even introduced the possibility that the contracting authority will introduce the possibility of direct payment into the documents. We have done much more; we have been sensitive to environmental issues, to the hiring of social services. Overall, I wanted to highlight that it has been intense work and that the result has been reasonably good. However, the adoption of this law is not the end of the road, that is, the objective of ensuring that public money is used properly, because it is now up to the Government to ensure that it is adopted, including our supervisor, that it is complied with and it is up to us to ensure that it is done. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Navarro. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs. Honorato Chulián.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u80	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I wanted to thank the members of civil society who are accompanying us today in the rostrum, specifically the people of Cepes. In the processing of this law they have not only accompanied us but many collectives and I believe that without their hard work that during all this time has accompanied ours, it would have been impossible for the text of the law to be as it will be. So thank you very much. [[Applauds]] I would like to start by saying that, in fact, today's discussion would not have to take place. And why wouldn't it have to take place? I explain it a little by referring to the beginnings of the processing of this law. At the end of November last year, the Government was sending to the Congress of Deputies a draft law on public sector contracts, a bill that our group - and not only our group - considered insufficient at that time, which did not transpose elements of the directive and also did not address the major challenges of public procurement in our country. We are now presenting an amendment to the totality that was rejected, but this did not cause us to decline and we are working hard to introduce amendments that could improve this text - 186 amendments in total - aimed primarily at three objectives: firstly, what we have called the democratization of public procurement, that is to say, to ensure that 18% of GDP is not banned from large companies but that SMEs, self-employed people and the offers of entities with greater social and environmental sensitivity can enter; secondly, efficiency, avoiding overruns and, moreover, dispelling the quality price dictatorship because it seems to us that what is cheap at the end is expensive, and thirdly, pursuing corruption and achieving greater transparency. I believe that all the rapporteurs of this law will agree that it has been hard work, intensive work but where there has really been a will and need to find a consensus, to find agreements and to negotiate a text in which the maximum possible consensus could be integrated, which is actually the text that was put on the table in the work of the paper. This shows that, really, when there is a political will for agreement and dialogue, there can be ways of dialogue and consensus. This text incorporated up to one hundred and fifteen amendments from our Confederal Group and I do not resist pointing out some of the most important and interesting achievements that I think are being incorporated. It will be impossible to report all because there are many, but it seems important to me to highlight how from tomorrow the price will not be the fundamental criterion for evaluating the offers, but the quality will be above. The social clauses permeate the whole development of the law, the whole articulation of the law, from article 1 and all its development. Reservations of contracts for social economy entities and the guarantee of wages - for example, may be the cause of termination of the contract the non-payment of wages -, the obligation of public administrations to retain payments in the event of non-payment of wages from contractors to workers, and to consult with social organizations during the award process. As far as SMEs are concerned, the progress achieved is also very important, generalizing the possibility of direct payment to subcontractors, also lowering solvency criteria for start-ups and generalizing batch division. In terms of transparency, there is also significant progress. Almost all the facts relating to the procurement procedure are published, they are published in the contracting profile, the amount of minor contracts is finally lowered, the instructions are terminated, access to the special procurement remedy is democratized, we introduce a totally new procedure... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u81	Mrs. Honorato, just a moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg your silence. The speaker was not being heard and she was the one to be heard. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u82	We have introduced, as I say, a totally new, agile, objective, transparent and easily accessible procedure for SMEs. It is also true that they are not all achievements, there are also some but we have already pointed out in the proceedings here, in Congress. The main concern was that of all that had to do with the monitoring mechanism. It seems to us that the monitoring mechanism is lame because it is overly complex and ultimately incardinated in the Ministry of Finance. It seems to us that a truly independent supervisory office could not be incardinated in the Ministry of Finance. Nor does it convince us of the nature of the tariffs for the concessions of works and services, since they are considered non-taxable and we did not agree with that. It also seems to us that we have missed an opportunity to establish a broad, broad and easy lane for the recovery of privatized public services. However, this was the text that was agreed upon in the course of the presentation and, as I said at the beginning, we should not be here now debating this for a simple reason: because we did not expect the People's Party to assert its absolute majority in the Senate to modify what we had already worked on in Congress. On a matter of form we do not agree with this method, since we had spent a long time in that work in Congress, but we do not agree with the substance either, because we believe that these amendments can open up the possibility of disconnecting more secure sectoral agreements and finding ourselves in situations where there is competition to pull wages prices to obtain administrative contracts. So, as I say, we are going to vote against it. In any case, it seems important to me to point out, regardless of whether these three amendments of the People's Group are adopted - better if they are not approved - that the text that will come to light from the next few days, the new public sector contract law of our country, is not the draft submitted by the People's Party, it is not the draft that the Government brought to this seat, but a better law, a hybrid law, a law that is based on the contributions of all the political groups in this House and that will allow tangible improvements: a more transparent, quality and socially sensitive recruitment. We are not fooled either because we know that there is a lot of work to be done and that there are still work to be done, but we are proud to have helped build the first part of the road. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs Honorato. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Serrano Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u84	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we never thought that the Public Sector Contracts Act would return to the Congress of Deputies after passing through the Senate, and more so after a long period of processing where the dialogue and consensus of all political forces succeeded in creating a climate of work in favour of the general interest and of the many sectors and groups affected by this law. Not in vain, we know that public procurement accounts for almost 20% of the gross domestic product in Spain. But we are not naive, we felt that the will of agreement of the People's Parliamentary Group was only a mirage, a necessity and not a will or a conviction. In its DNA there are neither social nor environmental issues, and we have seen this, because as soon as the text submitted by Congress has arrived in the Senate, where the People's Parliamentary Group has an absolute majority, it has not had time to amend it and they have preferred that the text return to this House, increasing the delay in the processing and the risk of penalisation of Brussels for the eighteen-month delay in transposing the European directive. You will say that only in three articles, but what three articles have you touched, Your Honor? Those that affect the most vulnerable, the most needy, the weakest. Those that affect the workers of public service contractors, of many public services that you privatized and led to indirect management. And now they suffer the consequences of those political decisions. They are seeing how their work is poorly paid, their rights are not recognized and, above all, the benefits are borne by others, i.e. the contractors. These are the consequences of having privatized, for example, security at airports and train stations. I'm Cordoba and I want to ask you a question as an example of that precariousness I'm talking about. Can you tell me why the fifty-two security guards of the railway stations of Córdoba and its province, workers of the company Seguridad Integral Canaria to which ADIF awarded the 2015 contract, have not paid their payroll since August? Now what? Can you complain to Prosegur, who is the new contracting company and has subordinated these workers? Are you going to lose your salary, like you did on another occasion? Has the Ministry of Development been interested to see whether the specifications have been complied with, to see whether the contract has been terminated and under what conditions? Has anyone from the Government of Spain, the Ministry of Development, ADIF or the People's Parliamentary Group wondered how these unpaid families have lived since August? Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I ask you: Do you care about the working class in this country? Despite this scenario, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have discussed correcting what was agreed unanimously in the presentation: the protection of workers from public service contractors. Their comrades in the People's Party in the Senate have taken away their mask again, exposed them and again we see what they are, the most damaging labor reform party for millions of Spanish workers. They are seen the plumer again and insist on the destruction of the hierarchy of conventions, and there is no point in saying that it is a decision or a technical precision. These amendments correct the references to the fulfilment of labour obligations as a criterion of award, as a condition or execution or as a cause of criminalization of sectoral agreements and replace the implementing agreements. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the People's Party gave priority to company agreements over all others. It is enough for the entrepreneur to make his company agreement adjusted and, alas, to contract. Don't you think that it would be more dignified in public procurement to those bidders who were taking on higher wage levels through the sectoral agreement? Let us not be fooled, the sectoral agreement is always more beneficial to workers than that of the enterprise. So this amendment has nothing technical and involves a great deal of transfer of wage income to capital, which consists in the fund of its labour reform. All this, at the cost of continuing to maintain and increase job insecurity. Where is the spring of employment in this country, according to Minister Báñez? That spring, if there is, you've recently fallen the leaves like you dropped the faces. It's because it's autumn. Keying the flag of labour reform into the Public Sector Contracts Act is for the Socialist Parliamentary Group a kind of puya that we are not willing to support; quite the contrary. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group did not like the draft which the Government referred to this House almost a year ago, a draft which had an obligation to take up the mandate of European legislation. The Directive indicated that Spanish procurement legislation should be more transparent in order to combat corruption and should incorporate social and environmental clauses, promote access for SMEs to public procurement and establish a system of governance; ultimately, promote socially responsible, effective and efficient public procurement. The draft contained many of these issues and, therefore, in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we understood that this text should be improved by means of the amendments that were bringing us different collectives, associations, autonomous governments, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, entities and experts in this field, to which we are grateful for their contributions. The Socialist Group has tabled four hundred amendments aimed at humanising the Government's proposal. As a result of our commitment to workers, improvements have been made in the draft law to ensure that there is a socially responsible public procurement based on social and environmental criteria, favouring access for SMEs and the protection of subcontractors; that the award criterion is not exclusively the price, but that the most economically advantageous tender is awarded according to the value-for-money ratio; and that the cost of wages is taken into account in contracts where the main object of the service is the labour force. We were able to improve the text presented by the Government on the basis of consensus, political will and dialogue among all those present at the presentation. But was this enough for the Socialist Group? No, no, Despite the Government's predisposition - more out of necessity than out of will and ideology - we believe that this project still has shortcomings and two red lines for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. This law severely limited options for remunerating services and, in addition, abolished the contract for the management of public services, a figure very rooted in our right which has shown its efficiency in the provision of public services in the social state and which is perfectly compatible with the mandate of the European directive.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u85	Mrs. Serrano, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u86	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Thank you. Due to these issues, the Socialist Parliamentary Group abstained from the meeting of the Finance Committee on 27 July at which the draft law on public sector contracts was adopted in the light of the report prepared by the paper. But now, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot abstain from these three amendments introduced with night and ease in the Senate. This law was an opportunity for the Government to establish from the administration itself and through public procurement measures that will ensure the reversal of the unjust social, labour and business situation created by the years of its absolute majority with the excuse of the crisis. However, what the People's Parliamentary Group has done when it has seen itself with an absolute majority in the Senate is to re-cut workers' rights.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u87	Finish it, Mrs. Serrano.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u88	Yeah, I'm done. Thank you. They have lost the opportunity to return to the workers what is of the workers. Ladies and gentlemen, more than the same in the People's Parliamentary Group's action with regard to workers in this law, more precarious and more poverty for this country and for workers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs Serrano. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bravo Baena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u90	Thank you very much, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is the end of the process of what a few months ago was the preliminary draft transposition of a directive and today is a new law on public sector contracts. The path was not easy; rather, quite the opposite. The political situation seemed to suggest that the agreement was going to be virtually impossible, but the reality has been different. Today we have the new Public Sector Contracts Act, a law that will have a direct impact on employment creation and economic growth in this country; it does not in vain represent 20% of gross domestic product and affect both the public and private sectors. Allow me a license, allow me to see in my presentation only the positive, the positive of what this law represents, the good that this law brings, and the good that all the political forces represented in this plenary have worked. They have worked very well, although not everyone shares my opinion. Two different issues in the approach: what the law has brought and how we have come to this point. Main milestones we've achieved. There was a need to improve the value for money ratio and I believe that we have achieved this by including qualitative, environmental, social, labour and innovative aspects, all of which are linked to the subject of the contract. Special sensitivity to the third sector has been demonstrated. We have built a better institutional architecture to have better instruments to enable us to control administrative irregularities and the fight against corruption. One example is the Independent Public Procurement Authority. For the first time in the Contracts Act we have incorporated that the Administration can pay directly to subcontractors. This means that we are leading the way in the European Union and not just that, but that the administration will be able to control the average payment periods in accordance with our law on late payment, to reduce those late payment periods. We have also established greater control over recruitment in public sector entities, especially instrumental ones. How? Eliminating internal recruitment instructions and rules. It was also important to work with SMEs. What have we done with the SMEs? We have made the administrative procedure more transparent, we have reduced and simplified the burdens, we have made a new wording for the lots, and finally, to favour those newly created companies, we have put in place solvency measures. Moreover, and as it could not be otherwise if we really bet on R & D+i, a new partnership procedure for innovation has been regulated. Finally, the workers. Although others think that they are not important to us, they are very important to the People's Party. That is why we continue to work on job creation. We have established essential obligations to improve the quality of terms and conditions of employment and their remuneration and, in addition, in case of non-compliance, it will justify the termination of the contract. I am now referring to the three amendments that you have discussed. Member of the Socialist Group, these three amendments are of a technical nature. They concern three articles: 122, 149 and 202. Do you know what they're trying to incorporate? It's a pick-up. Do you know what that vest says? It does not say which convention we have to apply, it says that we will apply the existing collective agreement, which we decide among all. Why do we say that? You have proposed to the Employment Committee the opening of a paper on Article 42 of the Workers' Statute, which refers to contracts and subcontracts. Whatever is decided there, this vest will be transposed directly into the Public Sector Contracts Act. That is what was intended in the Senate, there was no other intention but to give it coherence. Why? Because the opposite can lead to legal uncertainty, conflict in the application of the rule or contradictory interpretations, and somehow the applicability of the Contract Law could be imperfect. Secondly, let us report on how we have come this far. If this law is something, it is the law of consensus, of agreement, of dialogue, of the transfer of the parties - yes, of the transfer of the parties - to achieve the common goal, which was best for our fellow citizens. And how did we do it? With the help of 169 entities involved in the public hearing process. And in the parliamentary process the People's Party has received more than sixty professional entities and groups, just as, we are sure, you have all done; sure, you have all received a lot of people. This law contained 1081 amendments, more than 90% of which have been agreed, incorporated or negotiated. That is the sign of the dialogue, that is the reflection of hours and weeks of meetings on paper, of bilateral meetings, of meetings in corridors, of discrepancy, but all for a common purpose: to pass the law of the public sector. Let us remember, this law has been passed without any vote against, without any. And allow me to join in the thanksgiving part with a unanimous demonstration of all the members who made up the presentation to the Finance Committee to the Commission's lawyer, the Under-Secretary of State for Finance and the Director-General for Heritage. We want to give express recognition from the Group of the European People's Party to all the fellow rapporteurs of the rest of the political forces. We are delighted with the work they have done, very happy, and not just the rapporteurs, but we want to thank those who, not being rapporteurs, have allowed this law to have zero votes against, because we are aware that there have been people who have helped that from the back, and I think it is fair to thank them. [[Applauds]] I would like to point out in this place that there is one person who has taken all the thanks, the deputy Marí Bosó, who received the thanks of all political formations for his work, for his ability to negotiate and for his leadership, in fact and in law. Allow me to thank you for the generosity you have had in allowing me to close the debate on this contract law, when the real architect of the whole law has been the MEP. [[Applauds]] To do justice to the law, it seems to me correct to reproduce some - literal - manifestations carried out by some of your lordships, not of the People's Party but of other formations: This presentation is peculiar for its duration and for its will of consensus. This presentation stands out for its cordiality and understanding. This paper is the will to achieve as much consensus as possible, a consensus that is worth it. This is the paper that shows the policy understood as the search for agreements, i.e. it ennobles parliamentarianism. Let me conclude, therefore, as a reflection for all: when we share ideas and approaches from respect for the Constitution, the law, the legal system, the institutions - I am talking about Congress, I am talking about the Senate, I am talking about the plenary, I am talking about the committees, I am talking about the papers - when we respond to the recommendations of the lawyers and also to our respect for the international sphere in which we move - especially the European Union - we will be able - and with this law we have demonstrated - to build a better future for Spain and for the Spaniards. I sincerely believe that the Spaniards deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u92	We turn to agenda item 33: Amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft law on explosives precursors. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u93	Thank you very much, President. I am simply saying that we have no comment to make on the amendments adopted in the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this law is the result of the mandate of the European Union Action Plan to improve the safety of the treatment of explosives, an action plan from which the European Union Regulation 98/2013 - of the European Parliament and of the Council - on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors, which, although directly applicable in each Member State, provided for the adoption of a rule in those States that would allow its correct application. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already said this when this very proposal for a law was discussed earlier in plenary. We, the liberal parties - the real ones, not the others - do not like regulatory restrictions very much. We do not like to have to legislate on how to limit the work of professionals, in this case the explosives sector, however, we consider that this royal decree is necessary for the explosives industry, both for manufacturers, storers and distributors, and for those who ultimately buy these products, substances or compounds; and it is necessary, above all, for the safety of all Spaniards, which is the prism on which we believe we should value this norm. Moreover, from that point of view, it seems to us fundamental - I repeat - that we could say that the vote on this bill is late, because some parties have delayed its adoption to the detriment of the end of the security of all Spaniards. We were warning this in March during the debate on the consideration of this law. More than a third of those detained in Spain for their connection in one way or another with Islamic terrorism are immersed in terrorist cells, as happened in Barcelona or Cambrils. Any of them can use the Internet to learn about the process of making an explosive, as did those terrorists in those attacks. Explosive precursors at the end are only substances that, although legal, although harmless, are likely to be used in high concentrations for the domestic and illicit manufacture of explosives with which terrorist attacks can be committed. This happened in London in 2005, in Oslo in 2011, in Paris, in Brussels and in Barcelona too, to the misfortune of all of us, where terrorists used acetone, propanone, a substance of legal use but which can be used as a precursor of explosives. All these substances, ladies and gentlemen, can easily be purchased in sufficient concentrations to manufacture a powerful artifact following the information that is now available on the network in a simple way for anyone. Following this reasoning, we should ask ourselves how the terrorists could accumulate in Barcelona, in Alcanar, 500 liters of acetone to manufacture 100 kilos of explosives - 100 kilos of explosives with 500 liters of acetone - without generating any suspicion. For in large part because of the legal vacuum that existed so far and before the passage of this law. Of course, we cannot ensure that this rule will be the infallible antidote against new terrorist attacks in our country or anywhere else, but it will undoubtedly be an obstacle for those who intend to do so and will therefore contribute modestly to improving something as important as the security of all our citizens. The Spanish need appropriate and necessary rules to deal with terrorism or any other criminal strategy that includes the use of such materials, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore believe that we should no longer delay the adoption of rules such as this which we are now debating. We will accept the amendments that have been introduced in the Senate because we understand that they are technical amendments that they do are to complement and give greater legal certainty, especially in the management of sanctioning files that could result from the incorrect use of the rule, and we therefore urge the rest of the groups to make a real contribution to the safety of all by adopting this bill. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin this speech today, which is World Day against Breast Cancer, sending a message of hope, encouragement and affection especially to all those women who are going through the hard trance of this disease. A lot of cheer and a lot of strength! [[Applauds]] Turning now to the issue that brings us here today, the background to the rule of this draft law on explosives precursors, which is expected to be adopted today, dates back to 2008, when the Council of the European Union adopts a plan to improve the safety of explosives. The objective of this plan is nothing other than to strengthen the control of illegal manufacturing explosives and thus reduce the risk of access... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u98	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u99	... at a high level of substances that can be used as precursors of explosives, which is known as home-made bombs. This arose as a result of Europe-wide concern about the threat to public security of terrorism, as well as other serious activities related to organized crime. We still have in the retina and in the memory all those attacks that have taken place in Europe; nor has our country been alien to these tragedies. We have in mind the attacks of Cambrils and Barcelona, which sought a much greater tragedy using these chemicals. In fact, 500 litres of this type of substance were seized to launch the so-called'mother of Satan' bomb to carry out a further massacre in this attack. The adoption of this law is therefore more than necessary. In fact, our group will always support all such measures that serve to prevent, prosecute and neutralize all forms of terrorism, provided that legislative measures scrupulously respect the rule of law, that is, the fundamental freedoms and rights that all people have, because the rules must be aimed at the search for peace and security. Therefore, it is logical that we legislate on mechanisms that allow us to, I insist, prevent and anticipate terrorist threats. It is also true that in some matters this law is short. We would have liked to have accepted some of the amendments that we have proposed - some have been accepted - such as incorporating mechanisms for greater coordination between the different security forces and bodies, because if we do not address this, then what happens happens. In fact, this debate began here precisely with an amendment to a whole group on the question of improving coordination. In any case, no doubt this law is better than what we had. We have humbly contributed, putting our granite in order to improve it, and I believe that among all of us we have achieved it. What remains meridianally clear is that the work of all is the greatest proof of the commitment of all of us here and those of us who have worked on this rule in the fight against terrorism. One thing that I think is important is that the fight against terrorism cannot lead to the reduction of rights to citizenship. This is a red line that we must not cross. The logic has to be the reverse, that is, instead of cutting rights, we need to strengthen the rule of law. But this is not the end of everything, but we must continue to work on measures to promote and better respond to terrorism. For example, I believe that we need to address - it is an important issue - an in-depth study and analysis leading to the reform of Law 2/1986. It is an outdated law, more than thirty years ago, that today does not give the results that it did give thirty years ago. There is no police union, no Civil Guard association, that agrees with this police model, to say the least. I think we need to be brave and in a state pact to get to work thinking about what model of police we want and what model we need for our country, to change this law that, as I say, is obsolete, is more than thirty years old. In fact, we have requested a subcommission to work with all experts to change the police model in this country. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have worked on the drafting of this rule, all the rapporteurs and the lawyers, because we have done so in a constructive climate of understanding. Despite all our differences, from what separates us, we have contributed to the drafting of a law that is in the interests of the citizens. There is no doubt - this is the example of this law - that dialogue is always the best way to solve problems and reach a good agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Delgado. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Botella Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u101	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, given the circumstances with which we live and always defending that a Congress must be active and react to the events that take place in everyday life, and taking advantage of the meeting with us of the Minister of the Interior, I would like to convey my solidarity to the Vice-President of the Valencian Government, Monica Oltra, for the unacceptable slap she suffered in her private home. [[Applauds]] I use my minutes briefly, Minister, to convey to you the concern we have in Valencia for the growth and progress of these ultra-right fascist groups that are well-identified, that have recently been acting with impunity and that cause real concern to the population. We ask you that your ministry be involved and that, please, through the Internal Affairs Commission, you send us all the measures you consider. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] We are now entering a delicate matter such as explosives precursors; delicate because, as you know, it is highly unstable. However, I will try to focus on the more formal aspects of the procedure that we have followed, ladies and gentlemen, to bring forward an explosive precursors law that culminates today. A process where essential aspects are regulated to implement a European regulation that was already applicable de facto since January 2013 - basically since 2014, which was the official date of its application - for the marketing and use of explosives precursors. Since that date - I draw your attention to the fact - there has been a delay in the adoption of the law in Spain, a delay which makes those essential aspects that we needed to adapt to be properly implemented in Spain not regulated today, and I must inevitably address the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party who have supported the Government over the last few years. Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of security, as you know - but it must be remembered - there is no complacency, but the highest demand and diligence. For reasons of national security, I ask you, how is it possible that the Government did not deal with and no longer passed this law in the X Legislature? How is it possible that the Council of State itself had to reprimand the government for it to deal with projects such as this with greater urgency? How is it possible that the European Commission had to initiate a procedure for non-compliance with the Spanish Government because of this inexplicable delay while the Minister of the Interior - in this case, Fernández Díaz - was so in other things that we have had to open to him in this Congress, in this legislature, a commission of inquiry to explain the partisan use of his ministry? Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the subject we are regulating and the need for thorough control of these substances has been dramatically demonstrated by the recent attacks in Catalonia. The court order for these terrorist attacks states: There are reasonable and sufficient indications that Alcanar's home was trying to manufacture acetone peroxide, better known as TATP, that is, 'the mother of Satan', commonly used by the terrorist organization Daesh in its recent terrorist actions such as the Paris and Brussels bombings. In the case of Catalonia, according to the judicial investigation, the spontaneous explosion in Alcanar's house frustrated the initial plans of the Ripoll terrorists who were, unfortunately, a major attack on those explosives in Barcelona. Ladies and gentlemen, there can be no self-congratulation when in 2017, with the European regulation already in force but with this law still under way - and some of the previous Members have said - the terrorists accumulated in the house of Alcanar an enormous amount of acetone - as it is said in the judicial order, apparently up to 500 litres, because the whole expertise is not yet complete - a precursor on the precursor list, a precursor that is in the annex to the list of precursors that the European regulation provides us since 2013. And there can be no self-congratulation in this case either in Mossos d'Esquadra or in the Ministry of the Interior or in the Government of the Generalitat with all that has happened. As a congresswoman I find it very uneasy to hear what one of the acetone sellers in Spain has said: 'We had no order to take data or communicate anything', or what the lawyer of the Association of Victims of Terrorism has said: 'We consider that these controls are not being applied and that they should be reviewed so that they do not fail again'. Ladies and gentlemen, national security is a priority for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and our attitude throughout the process of this law has been to bring all our knowledge and experience to make the possible improvements to the articulation of the law both in Congress and in the Senate. We believe that they have not been studied or accepted by the People's Group from the outset with the dedication that matter demands and only in the final line have some of our contributions been reconsidered. We welcome the improvements made in the Senate in line with the amendments we have already tabled, such as the deletion of Article 4.6 of transactions between private individuals, which we have always said was distorting the main mandate of the Community regulation. We are pleased that the Government has finally accepted our amendment to carry out one or several information campaigns aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises and private businesses that will undoubtedly facilitate compliance with the new law and help raise awareness among citizens about explosives precursors, as, as we have seen, there were people who did not realize that this was working. We are also pleased that the galimities of the competent authorities with which the Congress project came out have finally been corrected in the Senate. We disagree that the issuance of the licence subject to a fee should be maintained, maintaining an amendment introduced by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress whose effects were not previously assessed by the Council of State or by the Council of Ministers or by the Ministry of Finance itself. Nor is it explained, apart from collection logic, that the amounts of sanctions are similar for individuals and economic operators, far from what happens to drug precursors. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Our vote is going to be favourable because this new law, despite the delay and limitations I have pointed out, can contribute to improving national security and, which is also very important, to saving many lives. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Botella. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As a Galician from an area heavily affected by forest fires, I would like my first words in this rostrum to be for the neighbors and all the Galicians who have been fighting alongside the brigades and the State Security Forces and Corpses against that incendiary terrorism that has ravaged our lands and dyed them black. [[Applauds]] These people who, from Sunday at four in the afternoon, were fighting with their own hands against the fires while other people, a minority in Galicia, were working in whatsapp groups to call demonstrations for the next day. Those two Galicians. [[Applauds]] Minister, I am glad that the Civil Guard - and I want you to congratulate her - has arrested two people, unfortunately from my province of Ourense; one of them admits that they paid him for each fire 50 euros. What a sad dye of mourning our natural park of the Xurés for 50 euros! So congratulate the Civil Guard, the police, for surely there will be more arrests. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the law on explosives precursors. Spain, as everyone knows, is on alert 4. Spain faces jihadist terrorism and organized crime, like other countries in the international arena, so the answer has to be international, it has to be European. And the European response comes precisely with this law, with the development of Regulation 98/2013, being some of its precepts - as here some rapporteur does not know - in force since 2 September 2014, although the development of other articles was necessary. Well, the following month the Minister of the Interior took office - and I already repeated it to Mrs Botella on another occasion - the bill entered the Congress of Deputies; more speed, impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, this law comes out with a broad consensus, as has been seen both in the Senate and in Congress. There's a game, some MP says it's in the henhouse - I'm not going to say it's in the henhouse because, ladies and gentlemen, I'm higher than the henhouse, but it doesn't matter where we sit here, but the size of who we are here. I do not mean in a pejorative way the henman because, as I say, I am higher than you and not everyone is lucky enough to be famous or to act one day in a movie and to be able to sit down with each party -, to which I want to say something, because the ones we are above represent citizens and I want to say something to that party, the only one who opposes this law. [[Applauds]] I didn't tell you when the attacks took place, I didn't tweet, I didn't hurt the tragedy that there were, as others do now with the fires, I didn't do it at that time, but I could have reminded you - as soon as it was seen that there were 106 candy and acetone peroxide in Alcanar's house - at that time to all Catalans that the only party that opposed the law on explosives precursors had been precisely a Catalan party and I didn't do it at that time, I didn't remember it, but today I do remember it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Their sectarianism prevented them from carrying security issues, because at that time, when they voted against this law, they thought more about the security of the coup of institutions than about the security of citizens and Catalans. They voted against that law and you were the first to suffer the effects of precursors of explosives with acetone, sulfuric acid and oxygenated water. You were going to be the first victims and you were the first and only ones who voted against the law. It is very serious this law and the security issues should be separated from the ideological debate, just as they should ask themselves why some things are good and the bad is just what Madrid does. Consider your situation because you still have the opportunity to vote today with the rest of the parliamentary groups in favour of the law if not, if one day an attack occurs, you will have to apologize for not voting in favour of this law. [[Applauds]] Mrs Botella, spokesman for the Socialist Group, leaves me no choice but to remind you of something. You have been a government delegate, and for ten years my colleagues in Valencia and all over Spain have suffered squabbles and you didn't say either; my colleagues in Murcia are suffering them every week and you don't say anything; the government delegate in Valencia suffered another on the 11th and you didn't say anything. [[Applauds]] They're sectarians, they only condemn the enslavement as they please, Mrs. Botella. You have been a delegate of the government and you should have a sense of state that you have not shown here today. But it's not just that, it's that he also comes here and says that we'd have to rush the bill. Do you know what Mrs Botella was going to do in the Commission? To vote no, but today I have to thank the Socialist Group's current spokesman, Mrs Robles, for the vote in favour at the time in the Committee on the Interior, because at that time - and indeed she has my admiration; she has been Secretary of State - she has shown the face of the State. I have just said: there are attacks, there may have been attacks and we must vote in favour of this law. The Group of the European People's Party truly thanks Mrs Robles for the gesture she made in the Committee on the Interior so that the law could be adopted as unanimously as possible. On the subject of licences, licences and fees, they must be paid, because a licence must be made that cannot be falsified and between individuals it will be difficult to transit explosives, and you know it. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by telling Mr de Podemos that I am indeed in favour of talking about the police model. You're a civilian guard, and we can talk whenever you want, but I'm not going to sit down and talk to you as long as you have a gentleman in front of you who speaks excitedly when they hit a cop, I'm not going to do it, really, and my group isn't going to force me to sit down with you to talk to you about the police model. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my spokesman, Mr Rafa Hernando, and José Antonio Bermúdez de Castro for letting me defend the first law that came from the Ministry of the Interior, and in particular I would like to thank the two rapporteurs who have been with me, Carmen Navarro and José Alberto Martín-Toledano. Comrade José Alberto Martín-Toledano, spokesman for the Committee on the Interior, I know that today you gave me the rostrum to be able to speak; from here I pay you a tribute because, although we are in the henhouse, I know that you, as spokesman, also count on those we are in the henhouse. To the lawyer, to Rosa Ripollés, who made all the technical considerations...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u104	You have to finish, Mrs. Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u105	I'm done. Thank you very much to all groups for supporting this law. In some ways, the state cannot be passive and we today show that, although there is no security at 100 per cent, it is in our hands to put a granite of sand so that Spain and the Spanish feel safer. Thank you very much. [[Mr Campuzano i Canadés asked for the floor.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, who stood up in the seats in the upper part of the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs Vazquez. The Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u107	Thank you very much, President... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u108	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u109	President, thank you. He said that I want to remember all the women who suffer from this cruel disease and their families, a disease to which today precisely the day is dedicated to remind us, so that we all bear in mind the efforts that must continue to be made to eradicate it. [[Applauds]] Firstly, I would like to bring to the heart of Mrs Botella and all the members of this House who, without a doubt, reject any act of violence, threat or harassment against any person, not only against some but against all those who suffer this kind of violence, harassment or threat, all of them are rejectable. In the case before us, I have had the opportunity today, from the first moment I was aware, to show my rejection of what happened and the unconditional support for Mrs Oltra, and I have also had the opportunity to speak with the President of the Valencian Community and with herself. It is a duty and I will do so, regardless of the person who suffers an act of harassment, violence or threat, because we all have the same rights. Having said that, I wanted to thank all groups for their support for this draft law on explosives precursors. On the day I presented it in this House, I had the opportunity to ask for everyone's support and, above all, I offered our willingness to improve the text as a result of the various amendments that could be offered by the various parliamentary groups. I said that the only intention we had was to improve and guarantee the safety of all citizens. That is what we wanted and I would like to thank all the groups who, working in committee first in Congress and then in the Senate, have helped to improve a text which, as I say, is intended to ensure the safety of all citizens. We need to be more effective and not lower our guard against any possible threats. This bill - and it has been recalled - does not respond to a whim, it undoubtedly responds to the recommendations made at the time by the Standing Committee on Precursors in the European Union, which has already been tasked with studying the measures and drawing up the recommendations concerning all the regulations on explosives precursors that were available on the market. But this has not been a point and an end because, without a doubt, we will have to continue working to continue to incorporate new amendments, and we will even have to continue to incorporate certain substances that are necessary for regulation. I can assure you that this is a real obsession within the European Union and in each and every country to continue to improve this situation and this control; we will certainly need to know how to harmonise, on the one hand, what rights manufacturers and traders have but, at the same time, what security measures must be applied in order to safeguard the rights of all. The other day we had the opportunity at the G-6 to be able to study each and every one of the circumstances in these cases and each of the countries we meet there - and being all represented - we pointed out the need to improve. That is to say, within the Commission, this concern is being continuously and constantly reflected, to the point that today... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u110	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, I beg you...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u111	...we've adopted a standard...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u112	Wait a minute, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this point has not concluded, the Minister is speaking, and I ask you to pay attention and silence, including the members of the Minister's group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u113	Today we finish here, in Congress, the processing of this bill, but we will certainly have to continue to improve the situation. The European Union will, in the near future, make public a series of recommendations on this issue because we will be aware of the modus operandi and even of the fact that substances, with their mixture, can result in a powerful explosive; that is, that we will have to be constantly alert in order to be able to react. I therefore reiterate my gratitude to the political forces for their support. This is not a law that goes against someone, it is a law that improves the security of everyone; sincerely, I thank you for your cooperation because from now on the State and the Security Forces and Corpses have better mechanisms to be able to combat the threat of terrorism. Thank you very much on behalf of the Government, but above all thank you on behalf of the Spanish society to whom we must be able to safeguard their rights. And I would also like to thank the Group of the European People's Party for its generosity and for having been able to contribute with the rest of the political forces to the fact that today this law is a real reality when it comes to defending the rights of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Campuzano, you asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u115	Mr President, on the basis of Rule 71. There have been value judgments by a Member who compels me to claim a correction. Would you excuse me? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u116	I understand that you are asking for the floor on the basis of Article 71.1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u117	Indeed, yes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u118	You have one minute and only to respond to those allusions, not to get into the background of the debate because you have not asked for a word to speak on this point. But by allusions you have a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u119	I will not go into the background, Mr President, but Mrs Vázquez has linked our political position on this bill to the issues of terrorism and I ask you to withdraw those words. Our criticism of the law is about competition and I find it intolerable that our political position should be judged and that, as a result of our political position, we are responsible for some kind of attack. [[Rumors]] You know that is not true and I ask you to withdraw those statements from the Journal of Sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mrs. Blanco, do you withdraw any of your expressions?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u121	Mr President, I am proud of this Parliament, which I have been a party to since 2000, in which we can talk, is open to talk and vote...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u122	I'm just asking you...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u123	They had the turn to talk and I've never associated...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u124	Forgive me. Listen to me, listen to me, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u125	I've never associated...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u126	Listen to me, please. It is not in the use of the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u127	...I have never associated terrorism...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u128	Listen to me. It is not in the use of the floor. He's not on a rebuttal shift to allusions. They have asked you to withdraw any of the expressions you have made, and I ask you and you have to answer me: do you withdraw them or do you not withdraw them?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u129	I can't take back what I haven't said. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u130	All right. Well, thank you very much. - DRAFT LAW CONCERNING THE SPANISH LEGAL ORDER DIRECTIVE 2013/11/EU OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 21 MAY 2013 ON THE ALTERNATIVE RESOLUTION OF CONSUMER Disputes. [[File number 121/000005]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u131	We continue with the next item on the agenda, amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill incorporating into the Spanish legal system Directive 2013/11 of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council of 21 May 2013 on alternative resolution of consumer disputes. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group to set positions. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. I speak very briefly from my seat on only two issues on this subject, that the amendments we are going to vote on are technical amendments, almost a correction of errors coming from the Senate, but the problem in this matter is not that, but precisely those amendments that were not incorporated into this bill and that are the ones that make the bill lame and incomplete. It could have been a much better transposition of a directive if some amendments had been incorporated that had been left aside and that had not only not been incorporated into Congress, but were also rejected in the Senate. Therefore, show our sadness that we have not been able to contemplate issues such as the competences that some autonomous communities have in this matter and that we have not wanted to contemplate in order that the State wants to enter even where it should not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u133	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. Fragmentation of the internal market is a burden on competitiveness, growth and even job creation within the Union, and there is no single internal market if there is no adequate level of consumer protection, and there is no adequate level of consumer protection if they are not recognized as channels for exercising effective methods of conflict resolution. This is the object of this bill. [[The lady]] This draft seeks a procedure for the alternative resolution of consumer disputes which is simple - i.e. easily understandable -, affordable to the consumer - the economic aspect - and effective in the sense that it is resolutive. This solution must be guaranteed for both online and non-online transactions, being especially important when consumers and businesses are in different countries. Where were we until this directive is now transposed? Pretty late. Since a 1998 recommendation, this had not progressed much. In fact, Spain had been a pioneer, since the Consumer and User Defense Act 1984 had covered these arbitration systems, but, as I say, over the past 20 years more or less they had not been properly established or fully functioning throughout the Union, to begin with because there is a problem of knowing the mechanisms as is apparent from the restricted percentage of users who use them. Moreover, coverage is not similar in all countries; either it has not been properly established or it does not work properly in all graphic areas or in all sectors. Therefore, there are no homogeneous quality levels in all countries and cross-border conflicts are not always effectively resolved. In short, there are disparities in knowledge, coverage and quality that hinder the effective implementation of the internal market, deter many consumers from buying beyond their borders because they fear that it is not easy to resolve any conflicts and for the same reasons entrepreneurs have little incentive to go beyond their borders. This law was dealt with in an environment of consensus and we proposed amendments aimed at removing all barriers to access to this type of dispute resolution for users and businesses. Significantly, we suggest removing the barriers, upper and lower limits by which this alternative resolution mechanism can be used. These amendments have been accepted. Those who now come from the Senate come - let us recall - from failures in the final vote, with which we have no inconvenience in accepting them. I'm done. This is the text and we are satisfied with it. We shall therefore vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u135	Thank you very much, Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in the place of a fellow Member, Maria de la Concha, who has been the one who has basically carried the weight of the speech and unfortunately is sick today and has moved the honour of closing the procedure. The position of our parliamentary group on the amendments, basically because they are technical amendments that have taken place in the Senate, is positive. However, we are not fully satisfied with the outcome of the law, even though it has developed basically in a consensus-seeking environment. The reasons for these disagreements are quick to explain. Today, this project closes a parliamentary procedure which involved transposing a directive whose fundamental objective was essentially to raise the level of consumer protection in a context in which large transnational companies increasingly have market power and cause the economic conditions of production, distribution and consumption to be detrimental to the ability to satisfy consumers' needs. It is paradoxical the distance between the rhetoric in which we are moving from free market to increased competition, which from a theoretical point of view should automatically be translated into higher quality and lower prices for consumers, and the reality of our everyday consumption acts. I'll give you a couple of examples. In our country, more than 53% of consumers' high consumption costs are concentrated in just six large distribution chains, which since 2011 have increased their market share... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u138	... 16 points at the expense of small producers, smaller chains, all of them practically national, and traditional trade. This automatically translates into a higher level of concentration, reduced competition and effects on consumers and small producers, who are able to impose abusive conditions on the purchase of their products. Another sector that we were particularly concerned about, especially after what happened due to the crisis, is the financial sector. Only five large companies accounted for 72 % of the country's financial assets, when in 2008 these five large companies controlled only 42 %. More than 30 points of increase in market share, greater concentration and greater oligopolisation of the sector. To any first-rate economics student, when faced with a micro-economy course, the first thing they explain to him is that when a sector is oligopolisted, what occurs is a tendency within that sector to collusive agreements, looking for income and the maximum benefit that derives from monopoly situations. This is where what is called market failures appear and what is needed is the intervention of the State through two essential ways: the mechanisms of regulation and defence of competition - our country has much to go on in terms of independence and impartiality and effective capacity to regulate market conditions - and, as a last resort for consumers, the mechanisms of arbitration. This bill basically deals with this, but it still does not meet the requirements that we consider essential to effectively protect consumers. Progress has been made, that cannot be denied, as a result of the opening of the original text presented to us by the Government, but it has not been all necessary. We needed a law that was as clear as possible; that offered free assistance, as has actually been achieved; that was essentially managed by the public and that did not set minimum or maximum limits for access to these arbitration mechanisms; that strengthened the public system of consumer arbitration, that provided for the existing consumer arbitration boards budgetaryly and that increased their number, that provided the necessary technological and human means for the companies or institutions responsible for this task to publicize their services and make them available to all citizens, but above all a law that respected those autonomous communities that had competence in this area and had not, however, seen the possibility of seeing them developed. In short, we wanted it to be a law that would strengthen a modern, agile, free, accessible and above all independent, impartial and fair service for consumers. Many of these points have been achieved during the parliamentary process, and we should all welcome that, but the question of the re-centralizing drive of the People's Party has prevented the autonomous communities with competence in this regard from developing them. In short, this is not the bill that our parliamentary group would have liked to have gotten out of here. We recognize the progress that has been made and we are pleased and proud of the contributions that we have made and that have made it possible to enrich it, but we show our discomfort that we have not been able to make further progress, especially in the area of decentralization, not for ourselves, but for all the consumers in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Montero Soler. On behalf of the Socialist Group, Mrs Tundor Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments that have been incorporated in the Senate in the handling of the important European directive on alternative resolution of consumer disputes that we are discussing today are all of a technical nature, with the exception of the amendment to the second additional provision, which has reinforced the protection of air transport users. This change is significant following the events of the past few weeks in relation to airline flight cancellations and will represent a significant advance on the current claim system. This amendment adopted in the Senate and formulated, among other things, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group implies strengthening the out-of-court procedure before the State Aviation Safety Agency provided for in the draft approved by the Government, so that the outcome of that out-of-court procedure becomes binding on air carriers. The passage of a complaint system before the State Aviation Safety Agency, culminating in the issuance of a report by the Agency and calling on users to go to court for another mandatory out-of-court complaint system and with a binding result for airlines, is a qualitative leap in the protection of transport users that will improve the guarantee of their rights and reduce judicial procedures in this area. In addition, last week an agreement was reached at the Senate Plenary to ensure that this new accredited procedure in the field of air transport user protection is fully operational within six months. In the debate on amendments to the whole that took place a few months ago the Socialist Parliamentary Group already announced that we did not agree on how the law had been transposed, but that we hoped that the work... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u141	Mrs. Tunditor, just a moment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u142	...that all the groups in this House...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u143	Your Honor, just a moment. I just want to check to see if we realize there's a person intervening or not. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u144	He said that in the debate on amendments to the whole that took place a few months ago the Socialist Parliamentary Group had already announced that we did not agree on how the law had been transposed, but that we hoped that the work done by all the groups in this House in the work on the Commission would lead to an improvement of the draft law, and so it has been. As I said at the time, consumer rights become wet paper and are virtual rights if there are no proper procedures and channels for exercising them and there is a risk of increasing the distance between the consumer and the trader. Compliance with consumer protection rules is reinforced by alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. These methods are not so much an alternative to justice as an alternative justice. The bill that comes back from the Senate today entered this House at a very complicated time - coinciding with the budgets - and with important shortcomings that we have been able to correct in the process of amendments, contributing with our work as a Socialist Parliamentary Group to improve the protection of all Spanish consumers. If that had not been the case, we would have a transposition that would break with the principle of gratuitousness in consumer complaints, making it possible to charge a symbolic cost of up to 30 euros; but we corrected the text and maintained the principle of gratuitousness in consumer complaints. The project approved by the Government left out claims of less than EUR 30 and more than EUR 10 000, breaking again a tradition that the Spanish alternative dispute resolution bodies had followed of not establishing limitation on the basis of the amount claimed as it represents a guarantee for consumers in their relationship with the companies, but we also rectified the text and removed the minimum and maximum thresholds to admit to processing a claim. The draft approved by the Government allowed accreditation to entities paid by the claimed employer, departing from the criterion followed by virtually all Member States in this regard that have prohibited such entities, but we corrected the text and prevented accreditation of entities of alternative dispute resolution in which the persons in charge of the resolution are employed or remunerated by the claimed employer. The draft approved by the Government imposed on any consumer arbitration system that issued its awards within ninety days without providing the arbitral boards with sufficient material and human resources to be able to do so, but our amendments were accepted to approve a plan of aid for the management of consumer arbitration boards to enable them to be provided with sufficient human and material resources to be able to issue the arbitral award within ninety days of the directive. The project approved by the Government was not very sensitive to the competences assumed by the Autonomous Communities in the field of consumer protection, but we adopted a respectful text in the constitutional framework for the distribution of competences to take into account the competences assumed by some Autonomous Communities in the field of mediation. In 2016, 14,462 claims were filed with the Banco de España and, according to the information available, more than 8000 claims have already been registered in the first quarter of 2017. Of the total number of decisions issued during 2016, 71% ended in a sense favourable to the claimant's interests, which shows that this is a sector in which the mechanisms for guaranteeing users' rights needed to be strengthened, and we approve the obligation of financial institutions to submit to the consumer dispute settlement procedure before the accredited entity that is established in this area. I would not like to end without thanking the second rapporteur, Miriam Alconchel, and congratulate the technical team that has worked with the Socialist Parliamentary Group for this to happen. Improving consumer protection was our goal; that same objective marked the negotiation of the amendments that we had with other groups of the House, to which, from here, I thank you for the degree of understanding, which was a constant in the processing of the law. Today, the Socialist Group is particularly pleased. As a party of government that we are and as responsible for the first Consumer Act of 1983, which was a paradigm in Europe of the alternative system and the development of the arbitration system of consumption, today we can say that we feel that our work has resulted in better protection for Spanish and European consumers and therefore our vote will be favourable. Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tundator. [[Rumors]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr De Arriba Sánchez has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are finalizing the plenary session. I think that if someone asked us at some point the name of the Member or the Member who is speaking, it would be hard for us to remember. I don't even say what you're saying anymore, but the name of the deputy who's talking. I ask you, please, a little silence, because we have very little left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is back here today, transposing a European directive on the alternative resolution of consumer disputes. The search for greater consumer protection and the improvement of their capacity to defend their rights have enabled us to reach a relevant agreement that will presumably translate into broad parliamentary support for this bill. Although it is a reason for congratulations, it is no less true that our obligation is to continue to take steps within the framework of dialogue, agreement and compromise to ensure the highest level of protection for all of us as consumers. This high degree of consensus that is reflected in this normative text is the result of the dialogue, which I believe should guide and be a sign of the identity of our daily work as parliamentarians. [[The Lord]] This bill sets out the minimum and harmonised quality requirements to be met by entities responsible for managing out-of-court dispute resolution mechanisms that voluntarily request accreditation to be notified and included in a single consolidated list of the European Commission. It regulates the procedure for the accreditation of these entities and sets out the obligations to be assumed by them. The aim is to ensure that consumers resident in the European Union are able to settle disputes with entrepreneurs established in any Member State; disputes of a national or cross-border nature, relating to contractual obligations arising from consumer contracts for the purchase, sale or provision of services, whether online or not. This rule will make it easier for consumers to find a solution without having to resort to the judicial process for possible problems arising from contracts with entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must point out the progress that has been made during the parliamentary process. Firstly, the recognition of our competitive distribution, expressly recognising the competence of the Autonomous Communities and, where appropriate, the Autonomous Cities of Ceuta and Melilla to designate a competent authority to certify the bodies of alternative resolution established in their territorial scope. The sensitivity of the different territories, particularly those with co-official languages, has also been taken into account, recognizing this fact and incorporating the obligation of these entities to ensure the use of Spanish and the co-official language of the community where it is established. In short, the claims made in this area of competence have been met, always within the established framework of our Spanish Constitution. Throughout the process, we have achieved broad consensuses, consensuses that have certainly made it possible to improve and enrich the text, which we hope will finally be adopted by this House. Examples include ensuring that these procedures are free for consumers, that persons employed or remunerated exclusively by business organisations or associations to which the employer belongs cannot be credited or that entities are prevented from benefiting, on the basis of their financial level, from non-admission of claims. This bill contributes, with all the guarantees it incorporates, to a strengthening of the position of the consumer, whether it is binding or not, with measures such as that the parties are obliged to communicate to the entity when they are going to make use of the assistance of lawyer or legal adviser or that the parties' access to the procedures must be simple and easy to identify for consumers. Further requirements are laid down to ensure the independence of the persons or professionals who resolve and the possibility of filing a complaint with the resolution entity is incorporated where the parties understand that there is an abnormal functioning of the entity, a lack of independence or impartiality, and the entity is required to transfer that resolution and that claim to the competent authority. This project, ladies and gentlemen, reflects the role of the European Consumer Centre in assisting consumers in their claims. Important is the obligation for entrepreneurs to accept these procedures in particularly conflicting sectors, such as financial or airline sectors. In the latter case, that of the airlines, one more step has been taken, establishing the binding nature of the result for the parties. It has been expressly stated that the interests of consumers will be represented by consumer and user organisations set up in accordance with state or autonomous rules and the obligation of employers to inform consumers about these systems and the consequences of non-compliance with this obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, we are faced with a law that will undoubtedly give new impetus to the out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes, improve consumer-entrepreneur relations and boost e-commerce and cross-border trade. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate to the parliamentary groups the request for support for this legislative text, because we understand that it will better protect the citizens, all of us as consumers, and because the vote in favour of this law will make our country still a reference in consumer protection. [[Applauds]] On behalf of María Eugenia Romero and María Torres, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group and on my own, I do not want to end without highlighting and thanking the atmosphere of dialogue and dialogue that has been held in the various working meetings with the different parliamentary groups, both in Congress and in the Senate, in the interests of greater consumer protection. I am also grateful for the work done by the lawyer of the Committee on Health, Social Services and Consumer Affairs and for the presence here today of the holders of the General Secretariat for Consumer Affairs and the Spanish Agency for Consumer Affairs, Food Safety and Nutrition. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to continue in this line of work with a negotiating and consensus attitude, with a predisposition to constructive dialogue and agreement, in order in this way and in coordination with the Autonomous Communities to improve the lives of each and every citizen of this country day by day. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. De Arriba. On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u148	Thank you very much, President. I want my first words to be in support of all the women who suffer from breast cancer and their families. We are working together on cancer prevention and control. [[Applauds]] There's hope. I will speak for just a minute to discuss the alternative dispute resolution law. Today, more than ever, we European citizens must continue to strengthen our confidence in our common European project, because it is constantly improving and does not cease in its future vocation; we must also strengthen that confidence in our trade or domestic and cross-border consumption relations between individuals and businesses, as well as in that we - all of us are consumers - enjoy faster, more transparent protection and, above all, operate more effectively and effectively. This project represents an important step forward in the standardization of Spanish and European legislation and, above all, a direct improvement in the welfare and confidence of all of us as consumers. This law is the clear example that our European project exists, works and, above all, improves and protects us. I would like to thank each and every one of the parliamentary groups, both in Congress and in the Senate, for their contributions, their work and their constructive and ongoing dialogue to advance consumer protection and defence by passing this law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u149	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u150	We turn to the last item on the agenda, concerning the request of the Defence Commission for an extension of the time limit for the subcommission to study the professional regime of military troops and navy of the Armed Forces for the completion of its work. This request shall be put to the vote at the end of this meeting. We shall proceed to the vote in three minutes. [[Pausa. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote and by the first secretary of the Bureau, we will read the institutional declaration of the World Breast Cancer Day, the institutional declaration on the occasion of the World Food Day and the institutional declaration of the Congress of Deputies within the framework of the International Day of the Child 2017. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u152	Thank you, President. Institutional Declaration of World Breast Cancer Day. Since the Congress of Deputies we want to take advantage of the fact that today, 19 October, the commemoration of World Breast Cancer Day is taking place to raise public awareness of the importance of early detection, access to treatment and support for research, which mainly affects women. Despite the fact that out of every eight women one will develop breast cancer throughout her life, thanks to the advances made in this area the cure rate currently exceeds 90%. With this we want to convey this message of hope to the patients and their families and to thank the work of the professionals who, with their effort and dedication, have made Spain one of the countries with the highest life expectancy in the world. [[Applauds]] - INSTITUTIONAL DECLARATION IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE INTERNATIONAL DAY OF THE CHILD 2017. [[File number 140/000018]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u153	Second institutional declaration of the Congress of Deputies in the framework of the International Day of the Girl Child 2017. On the occasion of the International Day of the Girl Child, held on 11 October, the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies reaffirms its unanimous commitment to the rights of girls, regardless of their religion, culture, geographical origin and sexual orientation, so that they can all learn, lead, decide and prosper in their lives. Gender inequality extends throughout society, from school to government bodies; girls and women suffer inequity, prejudice and discrimination every day. Girls and adolescents strive to bring about changes in their lives that are frustrated by the discrimination, violence or poverty to which many of them are subjected. Six out of ten girls live in countries where standards and customs place them at a significant disadvantage throughout their lives. Women occupy on average only 23% of seats in parliaments in the world and only 5% of mayors in the world. Less than 1% of women parliamentarians in the world are women under the age of 30. It is more difficult for girls to reach positions of power when many of them do not have access to education or finish their studies and carry out domestic responsibilities at an early age; girls between the ages of five and fourteen spend 160 million more hours each day than boys of the same age doing domestic chores. Violence is the second leading cause of death among adolescents; one out of every four girls in the world has been a victim of physical violence since the age of 15. Complications of pregnancy and childbirth are the leading cause of death among girls under the age of nineteen in the world, because, ladies and gentlemen, more than 30 per cent of girls in developing countries are married before they reach the age of eighteen and face a teenage pregnancy, a situation often imposed where they do not have control over the decisions that determine their fate. It is necessary to balance power relations and it is justice that we promote the development of the full potential of girls, but it is also efficient, because it has already been shown in many developing countries that a girl with secondary education, when she reaches adulthood, invests 80 per cent of her income in ensuring the education and well-being of her family, thus encouraging the advancement of the whole of society. According to Plan International's 'Free the Power of Girls Now' study, 88% of girls believe they have more opportunities in life than their mothers, but only 37% believe they have the same opportunities as boys to progress. In Spain, the study highlights the fundamental aspects of sexism that girls themselves denounce to achieve equality: the persistence in traditional roles, in the gender division of household tasks and care; the cosification of their bodies, which are treated as a sexual object, and the control to which they are subjected by their partners. In addition, boys and girls claim to face discrimination and intimidation in our country when they move away from conventional behaviours marked by gender stereotypes. Girls of any religion, culture, geographical origin and sexual orientation can provide a unique vision of their realities, know better than anyone and in detail the barriers they encounter for progress and can put on the table their own solutions to overcome them. For this reason, the Members of Parliament who represent Spanish citizens in the Congress of Deputies today reiterate our support for the defence of the rights of the girl child and, first of all, we call on the international community to promote the leadership of the girl child and that they can lead the necessary change to make the world more just, more inclusive and more balanced. Secondly, it is essential that public and private spaces be empowered to enable them to raise their voices with the aim of ending violence, discrimination and injustice against women and girls. Thirdly, combating gender-based violence and promoting equality will remain one of our legislative priorities. No girl should live in fear either in her home or in school or in her community or social environment. Fourthly, we commit ourselves to promoting policies that contribute to the achievement of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda goals on gender equality for and with girls, women and young women. Fifthly, we will promote policies aimed at closing the gender pay gap that will facilitate the economic empowerment of women on an equal footing. Sixthly, we commit ourselves to their voices being heard and incorporating their views into the design of the public policies that affect them. Seventh and last, we are committed not to turning our backs on girls who are often silenced, exploited or discriminated against. Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u154	Institutional declaration on World Food Day. The World Food Day, proclaimed by the World Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, FAO, is celebrated on 16 October with the aim of raising awareness of the global food problem and strengthening solidarity in the fight against hunger, malnutrition and poverty. The right to food is a universal human right recognized in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which allows people access to adequate food. However, it is estimated that there are a total of 815 million people worldwide who have suffered chronic malnutrition during 2016. We cannot forget that, according to international bodies, 70% of the world's hungry people are small farmers, farmers, artisanal fishermen or shepherds, and 75% of them are women. Land grabbing, agricultural price volatility, control over water or other natural resources prevent them from developing their productive activity with guarantees of progress. This figure could be increased as a result of increased conflicts, increased political instability, as well as those resulting from scarcity, loss of biodiversity and climate change. Food systems consist of complex processes involving various actors. The environment, people, institutions, production and distribution processes influence final access to food and the ability to choose healthy diets. The functioning of the food chain is not always fair and transparent to the weakest links, which are producers and consumers. Since 2007, the number of people living in urban areas has started to be higher than in rural areas. Experts predict that these figures will increase and urbanization will pose problems in the efficiency of supply and distribution, increasing the dangers to health and food security in turn. Cities, as large resource consumers, need to change policy approaches for the time being to only provide food, shifting a more systemic approach and promoting coherent municipal food programmes and policies. Fighting this dramatic world duality from the cities is the objective of the Milan Urban Food Policy Pact, signed in the Italian population in 2015 by twenty-eight cities and that now, on the occasion of the recognition of the city of Valencia as the world capital of sustainable food 2017, aims for more and more cities to adopt their commitments. It is therefore necessary to develop sustainable, inclusive, resilient, safe and diversified food systems to ensure healthy and accessible food in order to reduce food waste and preserve biodiversity while mitigating and adapting to the effects of climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, the Congress of Deputies, on the occasion of World Food Day and coinciding with the year in which the city of Valencia is the world capital of sustainable food, wants to join the goal of achieving sustainable food systems and reaffirms the commitments set out in the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda to achieve the goal of Zero Hunger and urges the Government of Spain to make decisive progress in the policy to combat hunger and in the global commitment to sustainable food. Congress of Deputies. 19 October 2017. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun voting. First, validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 14/2017 of 6 October, approving the extraordinary and time-limited reactivation of the Programme for the vocational retraining of persons who exhaust their unemployment protection. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 2 telematics votes, 337; 335 plus 2 telematics votes, 337.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u156	The royal decree-law is validated. We then proceed to the processing as a draft law by the urgency procedure of Royal Decree-Law 14/2017 of 6 October, approving the extraordinary and time-limited reactivation of the Programme for the vocational retraining of persons who exhaust their unemployment protection. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 335 plus 2 telematics votes, 337; in favour, 85 plus 1 telematics vote, 86; against, 250 plus 1 telematics vote, 251.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u157	Consequently, it is not treated as a bill. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 15/2017, OF 6 OCTOBER, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE MOBILITY OF ECONOMIC OPERATIONS IN THE NATIONAL TERRITORY. [[File number 130/000021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u158	We continue with the vote of the Royal Decree-Law 15/2017, of 6 October, on urgent measures regarding the mobility of economic operators within the national territory. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 335 plus 2 telematics votes, 337; in favour, 245 plus 1 telematics vote, 246; against, 90 plus 1 telematics vote, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u159	The royal decree-law is validated. We now vote for the urgent procedure of the Royal Decree-Law 15/2017 of 6 October 2017 on urgent measures regarding the mobility of economic operators within the national territory as a draft law. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 plus 2 telematics votes, 337; 90; 245 plus 2 telematics votes, 247.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u160	It's rejected. Consequently, it is not treated as a draft law.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u161	We now proceed to vote on the Senate amendments. Firstly, the amendments to the draft law on public sector contracts transposing into Spanish law the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, 2014/23 and 2014/24 of the European Union, of 26 February 2014. We are going to vote in bloc on the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 164 against, 171.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u162	They're rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u163	We now vote on the Senate amendments to the draft law on explosives precursors. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 318 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u164	They're approved. - DRAFT LAW CONCERNING THE SPANISH LEGAL ORDER DIRECTIVE 2013/11/EU OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 21 MAY 2013 ON THE ALTERNATIVE RESOLUTION OF CONSUMER Disputes. [[File number 121/000005]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u165	We are now going to vote on the Senate amendments, also in a block vote, to the bill incorporating into the Spanish legal system Directive 2013/11 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on the alternative resolution of consumer disputes. Voting en bloc. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 318 against, 16 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u166	They're approved. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-19-CD171019.u167	We now vote on the request for the extension of subcommissions. Request of the Defence Commission to grant an extension of the time limit for the subcommission to study the professional regime of the military troops and navy of the Armed Forces, for the completion of its work. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] The extension was therefore approved. The meeting rose. It was two and five minutes in the afternoon.
