ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u1	The meeting was called to order. We begin with the agenda item for the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 6/2016, of 23 December, of urgent measures to boost the National Youth Guarantee System. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Employment and Social Security has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the President of Congress and all the Members of this House on having had the good initiative to start the plenary sessions at 3 p.m. It is an example of rationalization and reconciliation of work and personal life, not just family life. I think it is good that we move forward in Spain, starting with this House, with working hours compatible with life. That is also important for quality in employment and of course for us to count in Spain always with all the talent. I therefore begin my speech with this affectionate congratulations. Let me continue with a reminder this afternoon. This weekend a great woman has passed away, our partner, deputy in two legislatures and the first mayor of democracy, Pilar Pulgar. From here, as a companion, as a woman and as a friend, I would like to have a witness of affection and affection for your family, and I want you to rest in peace. [[Applauds]] Without further ado, ladies and gentlemen, I come to present the Royal Decree-Law on Urgent Measures to boost the National Youth Guarantee System in Spain, which is the first rule for the Ministry of Employment and Social Security to be validated in this legislature; as well as in its day the strategy of entrepreneurship and youth employment was the first great agreement of the previous legislature in our country. Therefore, we continue with what is everyone's task: a Spain of opportunities counting on all the talent, especially the young talent. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we were aware of Eurostat's unemployment data, which continue to point out that our country's high priority is to work for employment. It is the great desire of all Spanish society and, of course, the great priority of the government of Mariano Rajoy. [[Rumors]] Spain today, thanks to the commitment and effort of all Spaniards, is actively translating all economic growth into job creation. Today we have known that Spain is the country where in the last year more has been reduced... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u3	Minister, one second, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, because the minister is not heard. Go ahead, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u4	Thank you very much, President. I told them that today, according to Eurostat data, Spain is the country in Europe where unemployment has fallen the most in the past year. One in two Europeans who left unemployment in the euro area did so in our country. In addition, these data also tell us that eight out of ten young people who left unemployment in the euro area in the last year did so in Spain. This encourages us to continue to work with confidence and hope for the opportunities of all Spaniards and, especially, for the opportunities of young people. Employment remains the main objective of Spanish society as a whole. It has also been and is the priority of this Government. We will face four major challenges, which are the basic lines of action of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security: to improve the employability of our young people, mainly through training; to increase quality and stability in employment; to promote equal opportunities in access to our labour market and, of course, to foster the entrepreneurial spirit. That is the great strategic goal ahead of us. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know very well, from its first phase back in 2011, our country suffered a terrible economic crisis transformed into a harsh social crisis, especially if we talk about young talent. It increased from an unemployment rate of 18% to almost 50%; it led to an increase in youth unemployment of almost 30 points. One million jobs among children under 25 were destroyed, so that the loss of young talent was a tragedy in those years. This forced us, as a Government, but especially as a society, to make rapid decisions in favour of employment and young people's opportunities. I would like to point out here that over the past five years the sum of effort and commitment from all Spanish society, from all its institutions and from the social partners has made possible a change in the trend in young employment. The major agreements and measures in the field of youth employment have come through agreements and consensus. From the Government, we launched a strategy that meant seeking opportunities for young people. We did so in the new regulation of the Workers' Statute with the modernization of the training and learning contract, which, together with that of the Ministry of Education, was one of the two ways to implement dual training in Spain. We did so in 2013 in this great social agreement, the first social pact of the last legislature, which was called the strategy of entrepreneurship and youth employment, one hundred measures in favour of guidance, training, recruitment and entrepreneurship among young people. We have also mobilized it from the Government of Spain, and especially its President, Mariano Rajoy, so that Europeans also have a programme that accompanies national initiatives of commitment to young people; this is how the youth guarantee was born in Europe. In February 2013, this youth employment initiative 2014-2020 was endowed with €6 billion for the European Union as a whole and our country, Spain, was among the first to benefit from this initiative with the National Youth Guarantee Plan. By Royal Decree-Law 8/2014, of 4 July, and then by Law 18/2014, of October, the bases of the National Youth Guarantee System were laid in Spain. This initiative was extended in 2015 by Law 25/2015, which extended the benefits of the youth guarantee to young people between the ages of 25 and 30, all of them actions in favour of work mediation, improvement of employability, support for recruitment and, as I said, entrepreneurial initiatives by young people. Since then we have done nothing but learn together; we have perfected those initiatives, strengthened communication and improved their implementation in Spain. The royal decree-law that we want to validate today in this House gives a new impetus to the implementation of the youth guarantee in our country. This royal decree-law comes from the previous consensus with the social partners and with all the autonomous communities, because we are very aware that when we add up wills the results multiply in Spain. There's the results. As I told you, our country faces the need for opportunities for young people with two major programmes: the entrepreneurship and employment strategy and the youth guarantee, which today has given more than 1,700,000 opportunities for employment and training for many young people in Spain. That has helped two fundamental things. On the one hand, to correct the shortcomings in our labour market and the problems faced by young people in accessing employment and, on the other hand, to reduce the high drop-out rate in our country, which has already been reduced by 6 points and for the first time has fallen by 20 %. We have gained relative weight in vocational training in Spain. For this reason, the training and learning contract, which is the route of vocational training in the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, has had more than 543,000 contracts to provide employment and training opportunities for young people. In these years we have managed to increase the quality of employment among young people. Over the past year - and it seems to me to be good news - there has been an increase of 25 % in the number of undefined recruitment among young people, almost twice as much as in the number of undefined recruitments with a general rate. All this set of corrections and shortcomings have helped us to describe the results in the form of positive data for young people. In the last year employment is created at a rate of 7.1% among children under the age of 25, twice the overall rate. The youth unemployment rate has been reduced by 14 points in the last three years, and today Spain, as I told you, with Eurostat data, leads the reduction of youth unemployment in Europe: eight out of every ten who left unemployment in the euro area did so in the last year in our country. We're moving forward, but we're deeply unconformist. These data only encourage us to continue working hard and intensively, because we are on the right track, but youth unemployment rates in Spain are still unacceptable. For this reason, the youth guarantee represents a huge opportunity for all together, autonomous communities, social actors and governments, to be able to continue to give opportunities to our young people. In the youth guarantee system we already have more than 420,000 registered, and of them 145,000 have found a job: one in three entering the youth guarantee system ends up returning to the labour market. We are going in the right direction, but we need to continue to add opportunities, and to do so quickly, and that is why this new royal decree-law that we validate this afternoon promotes measures to improve registration in the system and continue to unite wills in order to improve efficiency among all public administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, through this operational youth employment programme, Spain has allocated a total of EUR 2.360 million by the European Commission. The initial figure set by the European Commission was 1.887 million, but the Spanish Government wanted to add an additional 473 million to this youth opportunity programme. In addition, in the coming weeks the European Parliament has planned a new allocation to the youth guarantee of 900 million euros, which could increase the resources for Spain by a total of 3.260 million euros. Of this total amount, in December 2017 we must have justified and certified as a country, among all public administrations and intermediary bodies of the European Social Fund, EUR 1,082 million. In December 2018, an additional 849, plus the total additional resources, those 900 to which I have referred that could end up approving the European Parliament. We must make the most of those resources that will come to our country, and as soon as possible. We owe it to the young people. That is why the real decree that we validate today introduces urgent measures, that new impetus that told them at the beginning. For what? First, to facilitate the increase of young beneficiaries by removing barriers and registration requirements in the youth guarantee system. Secondly, to make more efficient use of those resources that we are receiving by launching new actions through intermediary agencies, autonomous communities and the Spanish Government itself. It is important that we do so quickly and that we do so together so that the efficiency of all these policies can be seen by young people in the form of results. This rule is the result of reflection and shared experience in recent years, agreement among all at the Sectoral Conference on Employment and Labour Affairs and constructive social dialogue. Therefore, what we are doing is a reflection and an analysis of past experience and, from there, continue to bet and add up opportunities with our young people. This standard introduces some new developments. On the one hand, as I said to you, the requirements for registration in the National Youth Guarantee System are simplified. For example, it used to be necessary for a young person not to receive training or not to have a job three months or thirty days before it could be discharged; now it would be sufficient for him not to do so the day immediately before. We also increase the registration points that can be made in the system, either through the autonomous communities and their public employment services, or through the social partners themselves, chambers of commerce, local authorities, intermediate bodies in general, which also manage the European Social Fund. Any one of them can give the inscription of a young man in that unique file. But with this royal decree we want to go further and also allow automatic registration in the system of those young people who in any public employment service, state or autonomous, are today job-seekers, making it easier for a young person to receive guidance, training and bet on employment from the very beginning. What we do with this royal decree is to incorporate measures that respond to the needs and experience of implementing the youth guarantee to make it more efficient. In turn, it incorporates another commitment made and made known by the Government at the beginning of the legislature, which is also a fulfillment of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, and which means that all those reductions in contributions that facilitated employability or, at a flat rate, entrepreneurship among young people become, through this royal decree, bonuses of the National Employment System, and so we can also consolidate and strengthen our model of pensions. This is a commitment, I insist, of the Toledo Pact and also of the Government at the beginning of this legislature. This royal decree is to add a new impulse of initiatives by young people and to achieve, with it and with the efforts of all, that every day young people have more opportunities. I would like to point out that since the adoption of this royal decree-law by the Council of Ministers, in just over a month, five hundred young people have been enrolled in the system every day. We must therefore add to all those efforts and that commitment by young people in our country. I would also like to make one thing clear to you: as regards the resources that come from Europe from the youth guarantee to Spain to transform them into opportunities or investment for young people, in no way will we lose a euro of investment for employment, training or guidance for young people. It is about renewing our responsibility to face the problems in implementing the youth guarantee in Spain, as well as working, as is our obligation, so that this young talent that has suffered and has been one of the most vulnerable groups throughout the crisis and at the beginning of the recovery will be compensated, with opportunities, for these new years of hope and confidence. From this rostrum, I also call for the commitment of parliamentary groups to validate this royal decree-law, which, as I said, is born of social consensus and born of consensus and dialogue with the autonomous communities. Let's keep adding up for the young. Young people need it, but also Spain needs it to be able to count on all the talent, with that talent that is going to be our future, but that has to be present now: our young people. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro spoke at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in 2013 the European Council launched the Youth Employment Plan 2014-2020. In 2015, it was extended to those over twenty-four years and under thirty, after a debate in this Congress in which many political forces said that it made no sense, after the years of crisis, to exclude people between twenty-four and thirty years, because they were people who had finished their studies and had not had the opportunity to work at any time, given the economic crisis. We still have the highest youth unemployment rates in this country, 46%, but in the Canary Islands we reach more than 50%. I have spoken repeatedly here, I have put forward non-legislative proposals in the Commission and in plenary explaining that the youth guarantee system in this country was not working because of the registration system, which was also very complicated and excluded a very large part of young people, those who are at risk or in a situation of social exclusion without economic capacity to have the right technological knowledge, and of course also because of system failures, issues that were repeatedly denied to me. We also warned that much of the money the European Commission had given this country was going to have to be returned because it had not been executed. Today we have this royal decree, which resolves in part the complaints that we have made: it facilitates registration, that more young people can take part in the youth guarantee plan, the role that certain institutions, social actors and autonomous communities have to play, and an agreement has been reached within the framework of the social dialogue and the sectoral conference. We are going to support it, but it still seems insufficient to us. We believe that this issue has to be managed by the autonomous communities with specific policies and taking into account the criteria and profile of young people who are unemployed in each of the territories, which are different. In any case, we do not understand why when the European Commission distributed the funds on the basis of unemployment rates in the countries of Europe there was also no allocation of funds on the basis of youth unemployment rates in the autonomous communities. In our view, these issues would have to be managed 100% by the Autonomous Communities. There is no point in a centralized registration service, as has been done. That is why we will support it - we believe it is a step forward - but we will have to assess results in the coming months in order to try to ensure that the largest number of unemployed young people in this country are able to gain employment as quickly as possible and thus justify European aid in time and in time. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u7	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law responds to a great need, so its validation is more than justified. There is an urgent need to improve the employability and inclusion of young people in the labour market, either as self-employed persons or through self-employment. We cannot avoid the very serious problem we have in Spain, with a large number of young people in employment close to the lowest levels in recent decades, to the point that we are one of the European countries with the greatest number of young people unemployed in Europe both in absolute terms and in percentages of unemployment. But if these figures and European percentages are alarming - and the national percentages too - they are even more alarming in the case of Asturias, which is a community that has been installed in the red light of the labour force rate for several consecutive years. In fact, the latest EPA, published last week, again reflects that there are fewer and fewer Asturians working or in a position to do so, to the point that the comparison with the same period of 2015 indicates a reduction in the working population of 10,100 people; a minus 2,15 %, the largest negative data in the country as a whole and very far from the total registration in the national total, which was at least 0,56%. A substantial part of the victims of this official indicator were young people. In 2015, 7,750 young people left Asturias, who are known as urban legends, after the unfortunate definition of a former socialist autonomic president. The exodus of young Asturians also affects the process of decline of the community and the very serious demographic problem of ageing the most accused population in Spain and one of the highest in Europe. For this reason, Forum will vote in favour of this royal decree-law because its measures encourage the contribution of young people enrolled in this programme financed by European funds, which in Spain will be implemented through subsidies to Social Security for companies that make job offers. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u10	Thank you, President. Spain has been the State that has received the most money from the European Union for the youth guarantee in order to reduce the unemployment figures totally indignant, as a result of the mismanagement of the People's Party. [[Rumors]] But little has been done in the last parliamentary term to improve this situation. For you, Minister, the youth guarantee represents a subsidy, it represents a source of income at the expense of those who do not have a job. After three years without doing anything, now comes the rush and the urge to change the Youth Guarantee Plan that has never been believed. What hides these hurryes and emergencies is that Europe has said that either batteries are in place or they will have to return all the money. Which is the same thing, a wash in front of a system that you've never believed. It is not a problem of inconformity, but of incompetence. Those of us who believe in the youth guarantee, the need for the employment of young people, we put in place plans such as Avalem Joves or as Jove Oportunitat, L ́Institut Valencià de la Joventut and the Conselleria de Economía, cross-cutting plans that seek a comprehensive work at the social level, at the level of training and at the level of job integration, plans that seek to improve the lives of the younger people. What surprises us is that they present themselves here as saviors, that they continually say that employment policies are their priority when they are leaving out the younger people, when they are leaving them out of having a dignified present and future. And that shows they're bad managers. Moreover, Europe has said so, they mismanage the aid they receive, because in the end for you the youth guarantee, as I said before, is a simple subsidy. So, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, minister, let him look at it, they are worse for incompetent than for corrupt.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u11	Before giving the floor to Mr Campuzano i Canades, I ask Mrs Sorlí Fresquet whether she is prepared to withdraw the last words she has said. [[Pause]] I'm waiting for you to get to your seat. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u12	I will not withdraw the words because it is my political assessment of the management that has been done so far.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u13	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Campuzano i Canades.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u14	Thank you, Madam President, Minister. We would have preferred a certain tone of self-criticism in Mrs Báñez's intervention because, as several spokespersons of the Joint Group have reminded her, this royal decree is the result of the finding that the youth guarantee was not working in Spain and the autonomous communities had long demanded flexibility in its management. In the case of Catalonia in particular, the Catalonian Employment Service and the social partners have already asked for this correction months ago. In this House, non-legislative proposals were adopted in that direction and the Youth Council was critical, and - and most importantly - the European Union has come to propose that Spain should return the money that had been made, in so far as things were not being done well. It's good to say that. It is not that it is the result exclusively of a reflection by the Government, it is that we were being told that things were not being done well. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the worrying thing is that, as Spain is a leader in youth unemployment, the coverage rate of the youth guarantee programme is getting away from the prospects we had. The minister spoke of about 420,000 registered young people, benefiting 125,000. We are far from the 800,000 or 900,000 young people who should benefit from this programme, but if we assess the quality of the services that these young people end up offering in terms of employment, practice and training, the data tells us that this employment, practice or training does not go beyond six months. Therefore, what we fear, Minister, is that this European effort, this at all negligible amount of resources that Spain is receiving and that it is going to receive in the coming years does not solve the structural causes that explain our high youth unemployment. When the Minister draws attention to the importance and value of these resources, which are not intended to reduce social security contributions, but to employment subsidies - the same active policy technique financed differently - we must remind her once again that our problem of youth unemployment is not primarily explained by this issue, by the cost of social security subsidies, but by the inability to move well from the education system to the labour market and that the resources of the youth guarantee will not be used to reverse these underlying causes. [[Rumors]] I'm so sorry. I am also afraid that the Royal Decree-Law will not be dealt with as a bill and, therefore, will not count on our favorable vote, but on our abstention and demand that we treat it as a bill and deepen that discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u16	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Madam President. Today we are called upon to ratify a real decree-law of urgent measures for the impulse of the National Youth Guarantee System, a decision that in this case implies a substantial modification of the characteristics of that instrument that in turn come from another previous one, from the Royal Decree-Law 8/2014, of 4 July, which was subsequently converted into Law 18/2014, of 15 October. It is the same thing that has happened to Mr Campuzano, to my predecessor, and it is that in the assessment that has been made of this royal decree-law there has been a lack of self-criticism by those who are proposing it, by the government. The first warning to be given is that these amendments have as their antecedents and reason to make it possible to make greater use of the aid envisaged in their day in view of the difficulties which have been identified in the years since they were put into effect and in view of the poor results of the management of these funds. At the time, and as stated in the explanatory memorandum itself, the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 meant an increase in financial resources for Spain. It was within the framework of cohesion policy and it was also within a framework in which - I said - they should be primarily intended or used in the field of youth employment. The statement of reasons goes on to recall that the review of that framework has even led to an increase in those funds, which was decided by a communication of 30 June 2016. It is said, therefore, that these funds can reach EUR 1.9 billion. For this reason, and while the explanatory statement states that the reason for the changes is to strengthen the mechanisms of this youth guarantee system, it is true that the reason behind the reform is, in substance, to change the aspects relating to the registration of potential beneficiaries in a file or register - after proof of compliance with requirements - since the simplification of the procedures for such registration during those two years has not only been complicated and difficult, but has unduly hampered access to the status of beneficiary of the system for many young people, and has therefore resulted in a notoriously low use of European Union funds intended to finance this guarantee system. That is therefore the ultimate reason for this change: the very low percentage of unemployed young people who have gone to the system and, therefore, the very little use of the funds available for it. The Royal Decree-Law has arranged for this purpose several amendments in which we agree. The requirements for being a beneficiary of the system are simplified and to this end, the requirement for a period prior to the registration of 30 days without having worked or received training or educational actions is reduced to one day. It is sufficient for this to be registered as a jobseeker. Secondly, it allows all participating entities to establish specific procedures and opens the door to the possibility of facilitating access to the register also to the local government, the social partners and even private sector entities and not only to the State administration and the autonomous communities. Thirdly, it is possible to register virtually automatically in the system all young people registered as applicants for employment in any of the public services, provided that they meet these requirements. A role is given and the relevant role of the social partners is recognised, which adds legitimacy to this initiative. Finally and strategically, because it affects another debate but we believe that it is important, it establishes the conversion of reductions to social security contributions into social quota subsidies for the case of formalisation of training or apprenticeship contracts. This conversion, in addition to adjusting to its own nature of employment promotion measures which are active employment policies, avoids the breakdown in the collection of social security contributions. A couple of substantive issues, however, are missing. In our view, there is a lack of precision regarding the guarantee of work paths for young people. Today, it is not guaranteed that this work of young people will meet the characteristics of dignity, because young work so far has been a precarious work. These changes do not affect that situation and we believe that greater relevance should have been given. From our point of view, in particular, at the time the Basque Group warned that the law in which this royal decree-law, 18/2014, is protected, contained two aspects that ignored the competences of the Basque Autonomous Community. On the one hand, the one concerning Articles 92, 98 and 102 as regards the management of the system file, which fell within an area of implementation in labour legislation that was not respected, thereby violating Article 12 of our Statute of autonomy. We also note that article 107, in its paragraphs 6, 12 and 13, violated transfers already materialized to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in the Royal Decrees 1441 and 895 of 2010 and 2011, with regard to both the use of funds and the labour inspection. That dispute was settled, at least apparently, with the interpretation made by the bilateral Commission for Cooperation between the State and the Autonomous Community, but despite the fact that this decree-law merely amends aspects that do not seem to refer to these articles -92, 98 and 102-, and even though it draws a certain characterization of the bonuses that we also broadly share, we believe that it does not affect all aspects of the youth guarantee or all aspects of the guarantee of the competences of the Autonomous Community that should have been met. That is why, as Mr Campuzano has done, we believe that it is appropriate, both in terms of substance and in terms of safeguarding the competences of the Basque Autonomous Community, to make improvements to this directive by introducing into the text any additional provisions, or any other provisions, which expressly recognise these issues. To this end, this possibility is subject to the condition that it be treated as a bill, which, in accordance with articles 86 of the Constitution and 151.4 of the Rules of Procedure of this House, can be carried out if this House so decides after a vote to that effect, which we have requested from the President of the House from this moment on. This is our assessment. We will wait for the answer to be given on this last question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u18	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Once again, we are going to put patches on economic policies that do not produce enough employment and what they produce is, to a large extent, precarious. Last Friday his government presented us with an economy that is going so well that it only allows pensions to rise by 0.25%, that is, pensions remain almost frozen for another year. Today we are presented with a real decree-law, an emergency procedure, once again - in 2014 it was also urgent - because the economy is going so well that the National Youth Guarantee System must be improved because the number of young unemployed remains among the highest in Europe. After years of the programme, there has been another further success of its economic policies. The actual decree-law presented to us today improves - to be said - the National Youth Guarantee System. [[Rumors]] We welcome your rectification of the requirements, for registration in the system, relating to not having worked or received educational or training actions in certain periods before submitting the application that are limited to the previous day. We also welcome the removal of the requirement to submit an express declaration of interest in participating in the youth guarantee programme, with a commitment to active participation in the case of young people registered as job seekers, a bureaucratic process that only caused obstacles to young people and, in our view, had no reason to be. However, despite these small improvements, you have not responded, for example, to the requests of the Generalitat de Catalunya or that of the trade unions. We are told that there is consensus but my sources tell me the opposite, both the trade union and the Generalitat side. For example, the director of the Servei d'Occupació de Catalunya has moved a minimum of three important and necessary changes in the system that you have not responded to. Firstly, the incorporation of part-time young people. The term not occupied should include persons with a working day of less than 20 hours per week, in line with the European objective of quality employment and to meet the needs for better employment and employability offered by youth guarantee programmes. The precarious situation of our young people's work, widely described and quantified by contrasting studies, must justify before the European Commission the inclusion in the youth guarantee programmes of this large group of young people as a way out of the precarious circle in which they find themselves. Secondly, it facilitates the registration of all young people with residence permits. To date, it has been made easier for young people under the supervision of the Administration to be included in the Youth Guarantee File. It seems good to us, but the problem lies at the time when they turn eighteen, as these young people cease to be under the supervision of the administration - a situation which is already very complicated - to which we must add that they do not have the option of improving their employability by means of youth guarantee measures, which is what most of them can afford a job opportunity in the near future and which they can get out of exclusion, as we said. It should be emphasized that these young people have a greater vulnerability and risk of social exclusion. Therefore, all young people with residence permits should be granted work permits and their access to the file should be ensured. We believe that this is a group of preferential care which cannot be excluded from these programmes. Thirdly, to extend the registration requirement to young people residing abroad. With regard to registration as a requirement for access to youth guarantee programmes, we propose to establish a system to include as beneficiaries young people residing abroad who are registered at the corresponding embassy, so that they can benefit from return programmes to work, since youth guarantee as an incentive for the return of talent can be a good instrument. You remain immersed in your centralist and homogenizing vision despite the fact that the State does not manage active occupation policies, beyond a single registration file that the European Union, by the way, forced us to create. The most serious thing is that 50% of the resources in the youth guarantee system are appropriated. In fact, the situation is even more perverse, in Catalonia the money is advanced by the Generalitat; yes, the Generalitat, it is the one that must advance the resources to deal with the youth guarantee program and does so at the expense of increasing indebtedness. I suppose it must be one more strategy of its dialogue operation, so it is important that the resources that arrive in Catalonia are inferior to the competences transferred in order to maintain the underfunding, expoliation or call it whatever they want. The worst is that after years of implementation of the youth guarantee system, the state government today does not know what 50% of the system's resources are spent on - it preferred not to spend it in fact - rather than transferring the resources to the autonomous communities, which are the real managers of the system. Well, without any debate - it could have been presented, I repeat, as a bill - with the resources that have been transferred to the autonomous communities, they now intend to finance the social security subsidies and reductions for young people under the youth guarantee system. More harmful and useless bonus policies in our view and that of many Members of this House. To improve, to give help to recruit young people, this is always to the detriment of other ages, and this is not the problem or the solution; we could have debated it, as my colleagues from the Catalan European Democratic Party and the Basque Nationalist Party also said. Finally, your dialogue operation seems once again a monologue operation. If they wanted dialogue they could have started by submitting a good report with the actual data from the youth guarantee programme and do so as a bill to discuss it and improve it with the real social actors and in Parliament. But no, they remain anchored in the culture of the royal decree-law and contempt for Parliament as we see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we speak in this House of the Youth Guarantee as a mechanism to smooth a dramatic situation in our country, such as youth unemployment. According to Eurostat data, the youth unemployment rate in Spain - young people aged 15-24 - is 48.3%, the second highest in the European Union, only below that in Greece and far above that in other countries in our environment such as Germany, which is in 7.2 or Denmark, which is in 10.8 or the United Kingdom which is in 14.6. In addition, young people working in our country do so under extremely unstable conditions: around 75% of young people between the ages to which we referred have a temporary contract, compared with 34.5 in Denmark, 31.7 in Austria or 15% in the United Kingdom. The Spanish temporality rate is only exceeded in the European Union by Poland. However, the problem of temporality in our labour market lies not only in its intensity but also in its nature. Even in those countries with a relatively high rate of temporaryity, such as Germany, this is a largely voluntary temporaryity; however, in our country, in the case of Spain, most temporary contracts are involuntary, that is, our young people would prefer to find permanent jobs and the reason why they do not find them is simply because our labour market cannot offer them to them. I am addressing you, Minister, we are leaving an entire generation without opportunities, which, first of all, is not of justice and, secondly, we cannot afford it as a country. [[Applauds]] That's not all, though. In addition, youth unemployment in Spain is complicated by particular weaknesses such as: firstly, a drop-out rate that doubles the European average; secondly, the low weight of vocational training and, thirdly, a low knowledge of foreign languages. The consequences of job insecurity in our country are dramatic; throughout the educational spectrum young workers are at increased risk, first of all, of remaining unemployed; secondly, of being trapped between temporary contracts for long periods of time; thirdly, of experiencing wage penalties and, lastly, of being overqualified for their work. - At another time we can talk about the brain drain and the consequences of that leak for our country. That is why, as a matter of urgency, we need to take advantage of the instruments we have. The Youth Guarantee was approved in the Council of the European Union with an ambitious objective and a significant budget allocation for our country, which generated expectations that have subsequently not been met. The programme was not launched in Spain until the end of 2014, a year and a half after its adoption. The registration of young people was an impossible mission for many and the beneficiaries of concrete actions began to arrive with drop-outs, which made the program a globally ineffective proposal. In the development of this system, EUR 1,887 million was made available to Spain for the co-financing of EU structural and investment fund expenditure during the period 2014-2020. According to the latest data from the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, there have been more than 200,000 applications and 180,000 positive decisions, as at 31 December 2015, to 439,000 applications and 405,000 positive decisions as at 31 December 2016, compared to more than one million potential beneficiaries. That is to say, we do not reach half the resolutions of the potential beneficiaries. Regarding the number of visits received by the beneficiaries, as of 31 December 2015 it was 379,000, of which only 69,000 were of a finalist nature and 310,000 were of a non-finalist nature; that is, despite the means available, the effectiveness of this programme has so far been marginal. Spain must take advantage of the EUR 3,260,000 it will receive from Brussels for the allocation of the operational programme for youth employment up to 2023; if these amounts were not reached, the difference will be reduced from the initial allocation. In my group, we have a particular concern about long-term unemployment and, in particular, youth unemployment. Our labour policy pursues three main objectives aimed at eliminating the main problems affecting our labour market. [[Rumors]] Firstly, to reduce unemployment, especially long-term unemployment; secondly, to put an end to precariousness by encouraging the creation of stable and quality jobs and, finally, to boost human capital with active employment and training policies that are truly effective. This was reflected in paragraph 42 of the agreement we reached with the People's Party, which included a number of measures included in a plan to combat unemployment, including: the impetus for specific plans and actions to combat youth unemployment within the framework of which we are debating today, the European Youth Guarantee. In particular, and as a matter of urgency, first, to improve the procedure for registering young people under the age of 30 in the telematics register. Secondly, the integration of the registry data with all those necessary for the evaluation of its effectiveness and, thirdly, to establish new incentives for greater involvement of the autonomous communities in the implementation of the youth system. On this point I turn to you again, Madam Minister, because we have had to be us, we, the citizens' deputies, have had to come here to force you to do your job and tell you that from now on, fortunately, the absolute majority and therefore the rollers for this country have ended, and that is a cause for celebration for us. [[Applauds]] With the approval of this decree-law, the above-mentioned point of the agreement is complied with, facilitating the registration of young people in the youth guarantee system. It also provides for the conversion of reductions to social security contributions into bonuses paid by the public employment service and, therefore, by the State General Budgets, which will undoubtedly improve the accounts of our poor social security and increase the use of available European funds. However, to turn this program into a success story, it is necessary to go further. We believe it is necessary to develop a new strategy for entrepreneurship and youth employment for the period 2017-2020 that replaces the one in force before the next completion. It is also necessary to update the catalogue of measures and incentives for recruitment on the basis of their effectiveness in terms of training and employment. We are also looking forward to the early implementation of far-reaching reforms in our labour market - I am again addressing the Minister - and we are still waiting for the conclusions of the experts who appointed to comply with the European Union's judgments and for more recruitment measures. [[Minister of Labour and Social Security, Báñez García: I too]] We believe that it would also be necessary to encourage training contracts and to bet on dual vocational training as well as on the income of our young people entering the labour market. I tell you from here that it would also be necessary to implement this committed wage supplement for young people as soon as possible, as well as the statistical programme to make personalized proposals for training and work itineraries. So we urge you from here, we encourage you to implement these measures as soon as possible. In short, in conclusion, we believe that it is important to validate this decree-law and that is why we will vote in favour of it. It is equally important to continue to make progress in the establishment of measures to promote the opportunities of our young people. However, Minister, only when each and every registered young person has benefited from a successful intervention and is working or training to work can we really say that we are satisfied with the measure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u21	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u22	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Good afternoon, minister; we see that you continue with the exultant tone of last Friday and keep drawing our attention. The Youth Guarantee Plan he presents today, the validation of his royal decree, should make him think or at least rectify or lower that joy in his tone, because it certainly has nothing to do with what young people in this country are living with. As exultant as you are, minister, the emperor goes naked. You in this case metaphorically also go naked and the balance that this group formalizes on the management of the Youth Guarantee Plan is the story of a real failure. Yes, a real failure; that's what all organisms say. You've been able to put everyone in agreement. Even the OECD agrees that the management that the Spanish State has practiced has been detrimental to what they have to see as important public funds for nothing more and nothing less than creating jobs for our young people and for our girls, who of course have no future in this country but to abandon it, emigrate or seek the future out of the house. Minister, this plan has been miscarriage, born without consensus or social dialogue. The unions have been warning you of their mistakes for a long time. It is a plan that, as you well know, put all kinds of obstacles in favour of the almost impossible registration of those who would be recipients of this program, almost impossible because with the regulations that previously had young people in this country it was enough simply to have a one-day contract, for example in a Telepizza, or to be recipients of a contract as a doctor for a day so that they would automatically be expelled from it. And not just that. It was a plan designed - as the job guides told them - with an exclusive file, separated from what was the unique SEPE list, the management that professionals of the public employment services in this country had to formalize daily. That is to say, it has been a real failure, Minister, but it has not only been a failure, but the most surprising thing is that you appear here today and do not even exercise a bit of self-criticism with what it has been to put at risk the return of important amounts for our country. It has been a failure in what has to do with the registration of young people. One in ten is enrolled, a balance sheet more than negative. You are in very bad condition, but the most tremendous thing is that in a democratic country we do not have objective balances that tell us what was the result of your action. This is what all agencies are denouncing. And, minister, do you know why they don't formalize those public reports? Well, simply because they have too many things to hide. Public employment offices point out that they probably do not give such public data for a reality that is deeply asphyxiating. That reality had to do with something as tremendous as that the beneficiaries of that programme were actually doing to implement non-work practices, and that had nothing to do with what the Youth Guarantee Plan intended. Minister, despite your alleged solvency and your lessons to the rest of the governments of change, you are very bad managers, you rule very badly. If you were in a private company with this plan you would be fired and without compensation, because your result is too bad. Minister, you make the same mistakes. To create employment for young people in this country you do not go to the formula that you bring back in this royal decree. He insisted on the previous royal decree and insists on it with reducing coefficients and also with bonuses. It is true that at least now they amend some of their mistakes and move from reducing coefficients to bonuses, but, Minister, the path is profoundly inadequate and is being denounced by the professionals. By means of financing and the formulas for tax subsidies to companies, no employment is created; what is undoubtedly done is indirectly - if not directly - to companies. If you want to continue to fund businesses, do so, but this measure is no good for creating jobs. Minister, you continue with the same measures: to prevent, hinder or penalise the exit from the labour market. With the structural unemployment situation in our country, we do not need to penalise early retirements, because new people need to be incorporated into the labour market and others need to leave. Minister, your star measure, the compatibility of working life with retirement, is another disaster that will cause us to have even more young people who have no future in this country. Madam Minister, you too insist on a path that is profoundly inadequate for us: what you call entrepreneurship. We say loud and clear that to start creating quality jobs for our young people we need to repeal the entrepreneurship contract; that contract that allows our people to be in practice for a year, and of course they have no rights associated with their contract. Madam Minister, if you want to create jobs, we have already told you on several occasions that what you have to do is change the productive model of this country and encourage and work from an integral perspective so that we can take seriously the reality that we have of unemployment and precariousness, 26% of precariousness, after Poland, and that figure almost doubles - you know this data - when we talk about the young people of this country. Minister, do you know what you did to alleviate the unemployment situation of our young people? He issued this rule to us on December 15, 2012, by which you made it easier for young people to travel abroad to work, depending on the country in question. [[Show a document]] For example, if a young man emigrated to Sweden you would give him EUR 1,030; if a young man emigrated to France you would give him EUR 990. This was called external mobility. We don't believe in this model, Minister. We believe that it is necessary to repeal the two labour reforms, yours and that of the Socialist Party, to also repeal the entrepreneurship contract, and to take seriously a strategy agreed with the class unions that will seriously start to create quality jobs in our country. Minister, I don't know if you know the data on the destruction of youth employment in our country; I suppose you know them. It was about five million young people who lost their jobs. Yes, Minister, five million with the latest EPA data. I do not know if you know that with this National Youth Guarantee System that you bring us today they will not alleviate the problem that we have in our country. Madam Minister, we are aware that there is a serious problem of emigration of young people to Spain, but there is also a very serious problem of ageing in our country's labour market, which needs to be attacked immediately and with these measures will not be alleviated. The people who preceded us have said that this royal decree subsumes some of the shortcomings that the previous one had, and it is true; among them, for example, the fact that you recognize that it is better to join the single list of job seekers, and from there to direct all the young people of the country to the Youth Guarantee Plan, but up to this royal decree it has taken you three years to recognize that they had been wrong. However, Minister, we do not know what the reality of these contracts is; we do not know whether they are training contracts, whether they are apprenticeship contracts, whether they are in practice, whether they are scholarships, if they are non-work practices, we know absolutely nothing. What we do know is that you are talking about a program that is based on mere survival, that is, on covering the vital minimums of a young person in a country, and so the future cannot be built. I'm done. Minister, we don't believe in your social model, it goes the wrong way. We believe that the future cannot consist of having to choose between a precarious garbage contract or being in unemployment; we defend life, and as we defend it we ask you to act immediately for decency and for quality contracts for young people in Spain. I think they deserve it, and at the very least I should recognize that you've been wrong. This group believes that this royal decree has too many nuances, it has too much depth to be processed - as has already been requested here - as a proposal for law. If we do not surely get it from his government ally, the Socialist Party, today he will give the yes to this proposal and get it validated by the royal decree-law. If that is the case, we will certainly abstain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u23	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ferrer Tesoro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, today the Royal Decree-Law 6/2016 of urgent measures to boost the National Youth Guarantee System is brought here to this House, but they could well have called it how to rectify a management disaster, late, bad and trailing. Recognize it, Minister, the reality is that the impact of the Youth Guarantee System on unemployed young people has been very poor. The Ministry of Employment and Social Security has made serious mistakes in the design of this programme. We are not just saying this, the Socialist Group, but we were warned by the European Commission in November last year in a report on the youth guarantee in Spain, showing that this initiative has not achieved any success or improvement in the employability of Spanish young people. This report gives Spain a resounding suspension and indicates what should not be a youth guarantee programme. This report carries with it a possible sanction from the European Union that could leave us with less funds for the next period. The paradoxical situation would be that the country of Europe with the highest rate of youth unemployment, which was only surpassed by Greece, still has the European funds to combat this serious problem. If this were not so much yesterday, we were aware of a report by the International Monetary Fund which states, inter alia, that income disparities and the risk of poverty or social exclusion have increased markedly in our country because of the financial crisis and the fall in employment that disproportionately affected young people. The same report adds that the evolution of employment between young people and the few graduates is lagging behind others, and that more effective use should be made of the youth guarantee. After three years of implementation, the coverage of the programme barely reaches 10%, the figures are very eloquent. The implementation of this programme has also resulted in the unanimous rejection of different political groups, autonomous communities or social actors. But if there is something that speaks for itself and needs no further arguments, it is the youth unemployment rate: according to the latest EPA, it is 43%. We are faced with the most obvious finding that the Youth Guarantee System has not worked in Spain. 400,000 people are registered, compared to almost one million who initially saw the Government as potential beneficiaries, i.e. a mere 40%. And that aside from those who have had no choice but to leave Spain in search of a job opportunity that they do not find here: 500,000 young people exiled during the last and penultimate legislature, their famous external mobility. Not to mention those who intend to emigrate or the few who succeed in emancipating themselves. Youth employment, far from being a solved problem, remains a priority and urgent issue. Poor working conditions, precarious working conditions, uncertainty, mark the reality of young people in Spain. One of the worst consequences of the economic crisis is the unacceptable unemployment rate among young people under the age of 25. The figures, as I say, speak for themselves. The programme, which was a good tool to try to alleviate this harsh reality, has been lacking transparency, lack of dissemination, difficulty in the registration process or lack of data to allow for a continuous evaluation. A website was created where it was impossible to properly accredit itself. Public money has been wasted on auto-bomb campaigns, while being spared in advertising media to publicize this program. The lack of dissemination and dissemination has been evident. You have compiled lists, registration numbers, registered users, waiting for you to be lucky enough to have an opportunity. But for something it did serve: for the creation of a parallel, opaque, manipulable and confoundable record to mask the unemployment figures. When it has been managed by the Government, in this re-centralizing anxiety that it has, it has worked badly; very few young people registered, and a few of them have benefited. A veritable misconception. Youth unemployment is a much more complex problem. It needs measures that address solutions to youth employment in a structural way. We are convinced that a good opportunity has been missed for the Youth Guarantee System not only to improve or subsidise job creation for young people, but also to introduce the necessary reforms to make the transition from school to the labour market more effective. It has no use, Minister, as you said here today, for Spain to be one of the first to present this type of initiative if it has left much to be desired. Nothing to be proud of. The balance sheet tells us that it has not only been a failure, it has also been a serious show of irresponsibility. He has also said in this House that the Spanish model has been copied by many countries. Were you referring to France, where you have reached 80 % coverage? Or perhaps he was referring to Germany, with 60%? Well, for copying us, they've done better than we have. In these cases we can say that the copy is worth more than the original. Perhaps you would like to learn from these countries, where these resources have been made more effective. It must be said loud and clear that the Youth Guarantee System would not have been rectified if it had been for you, gentlemen of the People's Party. If it does not become because you no longer have the roll that the absolute majority gave you, and because of the pressure among others from my group, the social partners and the various autonomous communities, you would continue to waste the public money from European funds. More irresponsibility if it fits. The end result is that billions of euros of European funds are at stake that could be invested in our country in one of its main problems, youth unemployment, and that will pass by if we are not able to correct the current shortcomings. At the Sectoral Employment Conference, the draft adopted by the Government was substantially improved. What did you get? Firstly, to simplify the requirements for young unemployed people to have access to policies that are included in the youth guarantee, which seems to me to be an insufficient but positive step. It was also achieved that a young person who registered in any register of a public employment system of any autonomous community would automatically switch to the national, even with retroactive effects. In addition, the conversion of reductions to social security contributions into bonuses from the budgets of the State Public Employment Service was also achieved thanks to the pressure in this case of trade unions, whose participation as social partners is also more supported in this royal decree-law. Another agreed improvement is that any potential beneficiary only has to believe that he was not working or in training the day before his registration on the platform; and not in the last month, as required by the regulations so far. Certainly a requirement that is not met in any other country of the European Union. In other words, flexibility has been achieved. And of one thing that we are particularly satisfied with is that it did not come into force, in this royal decree-law, the cheque formation. The reform of the Youth Guarantee Scheme provided for the introduction of a training check, which meant that other actors, such as private training companies, were also allowed to participate in this area and that they could obtain certificates of professionalism without taking into account the socio-economic reality of each territory. The meaning of our vote is going to be favourable, because even if we do not like anything how it worked, we believe that this correction, although forced and insufficient, is something better than what was and is now going the right way; and because this has been voted on at the Sectoral Employment Conference, previously negotiated with the various autonomous communities, where this draft has been made substantially better thanks to the various contributions made. As we are responsible and do not come here to posture, as other political groups do, we want the Youth Guarantee System to be effective, to reach as many young people as possible who are unemployed and, worse, without guarantees of finding it. This correction is late, but it may mean, in the event that this time it is effectively managed, that young people find a way out of work, but this does not take away so that it seems insufficient and incomplete to us. From the mistakes one must learn and correct everything that has not worked correctly. The ministry in its day did not listen to some autonomous communities that did not share the model designed. We believe that the new direction of the system must be aimed at taking more steps in favour of autonomous management, which has been shown to be more effective. We therefore welcome the fact that under pressure they have been forced to rectify, although we cannot fail to say that it has been late and not entirely. We have the feeling that a lot of time has been lost, too much time for not doing it right from the beginning. This time there is no excuse for budget availability. Money came from Europe; all you had to do was manage it well. We will be attentive and follow up comprehensively so that no more money is wasted or more opportunities are missed for so many young people who are waiting for their Government to give them a job opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u25	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Hoyo Juliá.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u26	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is concerned and takes up youth employment. That this royal decree-law is debated today, and that this royal decree-law is one of the first to have passed this legislature, is not by chance, as the minister has said; just as it was not by chance that the last legislature was one of the first initiatives of the Government to be the Strategy of entrepreneurship and youth employment. Both facts show that, as the President always says, the People's Party government is committed to young people and to improving their opportunities. These facts and this work, much work already done in the previous legislature, in the X Legislature, have certainly borne fruit. As the minister has said, according to Eurostat data Spain is the European country where youth employment has been reduced the most in the past year. Since 2011, unemployment has been reduced by 15 points, and of course one in two young people leaving unemployment in Europe does so in Spain, and the undefined recruitment of young people is increasing by 30% since 2011. These data show that the work line is the right one; that by improving the employability of young people, increasing the quality and stability of employment, promoting equal opportunities in access to the labour market, and promoting the entrepreneurial spirit, youth employment results. In June 2014, the National Youth Guarantee System was launched in our country. It is important to remember that, although it was a tool to combat youth unemployment approved by the Council of Europe, Spain was one of the main drivers of this initiative and managed to raise pre-financing from 1.5% to 30% in 2015. The minister knows this well, because it was up to her to go and fight him in Europe. As has been said, the purpose of the plan is very good, since it allows young people who have just completed their formal training or become unemployed to acquire more training and experience or find a job that is in line with their profile. At present there are just over 400,000 young people enrolled in the system. It is true that in proportion to the potential beneficiaries the percentage is not high, but there are few, so I do not think that the figure should be disregarded. There are many young people who are doing it satisfactorily, and of course one third of those young people are able to continue with stable employment. But it is true that the objective must be to try to reach all, so the Government brings here this royal decree-law, which, as the minister has said, follows the consensus reached with all social groups and with all autonomous communities. The passage of time is always the one that tells us, and more in a system that gets started for the first time, how it can be improved. For this reason, in 2015, despite the fact that we had to make an additional effort, we approved extending the age to twenty-nine years, and if we adopt this Royal Decree-Law today we will help to promote access to and registration of young people to the National Youth Guarantee System by simplifying the requirements, extending to all young people registered as job seekers, directly involving the social partners, on the one hand, in the registration of young people in the system, and on the other, by participating in the Delegated Commission for Monitoring and Evaluation of the System, or by converting reductions to social contributions into bonuses. Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to your speeches, I must say that I agree with some diagnoses and forecasts. We agree, for example, that increasing job stability and achieving a higher quality of employment are two goals that are irrefutable, inexcusable, but above all achievable. There have been constructive interventions that I should like to thank, with contributions aimed at contributing to the improvement of the National Youth Guarantee System. What I can't share - and if I'm in a hurry, you can't consent to it - and that's why I have to fight it, is that they draw up a diagnosis and a prognosis by obviating and forgetting from ideology the difficult and ruinous situation that was found by the previous Government of Spain, and especially Mrs Báñez when she arrived at the Ministry of Employment. Ladies and gentlemen, these disproportionate, unfounded and opportunistic criticisms are not credible and are also unfair. The future of Spain, employment and its policies would have been much different, much simpler and more fruitful, if it had not had the aberrant figures of millions of unemployed and the stories of unemployment and despair inherited by the government of Mariano Rajoy in December 2011. In 2011 Spain had no opportunities or options for young people, expectations of prosperity were virtually nil. Of course a young man could not find a job or see that he could find it in the future. Mrs Ferrer, I will tell you that your group cannot give any lessons in employment; none. The data is here. [[Show a document]] This graph represents the evolution of youth unemployment in Spain over the last ten years. In the first five you, the Socialist Party, ruled, and as you see the youth unemployment went up. In the last five years, since 2012, it has ruled the People's Party, and as youth unemployment is seen as low. Here's the data. There are other issues on which there may be debate, because they are subjective issues, but on employment issues the data are objective, and the data are here; these are the data. I could give you many more, I could give you the unemployment data for autonomous communities, but you are Andalusian, and in Andalusia you govern, so you will know that Andalusia is the region of Spain that always leads with regard to all kinds of unemployment, youth and not youth. Well, in the last month he's outnumbered him by very little Extremadura, where you happen to rule as well. Mrs Díaz, I will tell you and your group that you do know about employment. Well, more than just a job, how to lose a job. Or do you not know what the erratic tourism policy of Mrs Colau is carrying out for Barcelona? He's losing a lot of work. The shutdown of 29 hotel projects will result in a loss of approximately 10,000 potential jobs. Don't you know what the suspension of Operation Chamartin meant for Madrid? Approximately the loss of 120,000 jobs. Yes, Your Honor, your group knows about employment, just as it knows about youth guarantees, because you, just as you represent citizens the most, are also the ones who know the most about everything. So, in terms of youth guarantee, you know a lot. But how do they apply the youth guarantee in the administrations where they govern? Shall I tell you how to apply it? Guaranteeing yours, your family, your friends, your affiliates the job. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Yes, that's how they apply where they govern the youth guarantee; that's how they apply it. You were talking about young people going abroad. Are you talking about the young people who go to Venezuela to learn how to tap a phone and then come and are hired by the institutions where you govern? Are you talking about those young people? [[Rumors]] That's the reality. He was also talking about companies. There is something basic about employment that everyone should know about, but what I think you have not yet realized. Administrations put the tools in place to create jobs, they don't, because it's companies and the private sector that create jobs. I know those are words that some of you get rash when you listen to them, but it's reality. Businesses and the private sector are the ones that create jobs, and administrations are to put the tools at the service of those businesses and the private sector to grow and create jobs. Yes, Mrs. Díaz. Ladies and gentlemen, you have all agreed on a point that is true. There is still much to be done, there are still many unemployed people waiting for an opportunity to come to them. That is why you will not observe, ladies and gentlemen, neither pride nor joy nor relief - neither in the Government nor in the People's Parliamentary Group - for having completed a task, because we are not entirely satisfied. But you will agree with me that the situation in which we find ourselves is far from what the Government found in 2011 and the fact - although not in its interventions today, not in public, but rather in private - is that it is recognized by its fellow bankers. Just as your fellow citizens, your neighbours and even your voters, all recognize that the economic situation and its job placement is favourable, positive, real and above all hopeful. We believe that in order to continue to create young jobs, we must follow the same path, addressing new reforms and without hosting triumphalism. On this path, on this boat, we need all those who want to contribute, collaborate and add. But, believe me, your used and selective criticism is an unnecessary and heavy baggage, whose space can undoubtedly be more useful for the search for agreements, consensus and new measures. We have a great country, a great potential. Some group in this House always strives to draw our country in black and white, but the reality is that we have a great country. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to support with its favourable vote this validation of the royal decree-law, a royal decree-law that has been lit up and generated by the necessary consensus and understanding to which the citizens urged and called us last June and which undoubtedly extends the measures carried out in favour of young people in the field of work. It will improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of young people who still need and want a stable, lasting and quality job...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u27	Your Honor, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u28	Yes, I'm done, President. ...to allow them freely to choose and shape their lives, to build homes and projects. An end that would deserve the unanimous support of this House on its own. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2016, OF 23 DECEMBER, RELATING TO THE FINANCIAL MECHANISM OF THE COST OF THE SOCIAL GOOD AND OTHER PROTECTION MEASURES TO VULNERABLE ELECTRIC ENERGY CONSUMER. [[File number 130/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u29	We now discuss the Royal Decree-Law 7/2016, 23 December, which regulates the mechanism for financing the cost of the social bond and other measures to protect vulnerable consumers of electricity. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. I stand before all of you, ladies and gentlemen, for the validation of the Royal Decree-Law regulating the mechanism for financing the cost of the social bond and other measures to protect vulnerable consumers of electricity. As you all know, this royal decree-law was adopted by the Government after a process of dialogue with the parliamentary forces in which, after two or three meetings with all the groups and after a series of bilateral contacts, there was a text in which there were very valuable contributions from both the Socialist Group and the Citizens Group, which have been incorporated into it, apart from first-hand knowledge of the opinions of the different groups at all these meetings. In this I can only thank all the parliamentary groups for their cooperation because this is an issue that concerns us all. We are talking about how to combat energy poverty in our country; that is, that situation in which, in addition to having difficult access to income, certain families have a particular vulnerability in the case of access to energy services. It is therefore important to establish some kind of social support, and the greater the consensus this social support has, the more parliamentary groups join it, it will always be better because it makes the system more robust. It is a system that was found at a certain time with difficulty, with a Supreme Court ruling that considered that the system that had been in force since 2009 had some deficiency that needed to be addressed. This is the starting point of the royal decree-law itself. That is, the first thing we need is a robust, strong system with broad parliamentary consensus, which gives not only legal but political value to the fact that we need funding for the social bonus. This funding remains essentially as it was, but addressing the problems that the Supreme Court itself informs us of in its judgment. In order to comply with this judgment, what has been done in this royal decree-law is to avoid the fundamental stumbling block that exposed us, and it is the fact that, despite the fact that the social bonus is financed by 94 % of the market - i.e. by those traders who were integrated into large energy groups - however, it was considered that not participating in the other 6 % was discriminatory. This is what, at the outset, corrects the royal decree-law. What you are looking for is precisely to give that robustness, as I said earlier, to that funding. Without funding, we will not have a social bonus because, although none of the consumers lost the social bonus that had been in effect since 2009 and that has continued to be applied, if adequate funding did not exist, the system as a whole was obviously in danger. However, the judicial process has not ended here. In its day, the Government filed an incident of nullity with the Supreme Court itself, which, as it was to be expected, did not accept, and in the near future, before 2 February, an application for amparo will be submitted to the Constitutional Court, since the Government considers - and this is obviously a legal opinion on the part of the State's legal services - that it should have been the Court of Luxembourg, the Court of Justice of the European Union that had interpreted and applied the directive, since that would have been the correct procedural way. This is going to take its course, but thanks to this royal decree-law we comply with the Supreme Court's ruling and maintain the funding, as I said earlier. But, of course, the royal decree-law goes much further because it was not just a question of guaranteeing the financing of the social bonus. It was also important to reform it, and there is a 100% consensus in this House that it is necessary to change the current social bonus, which, as I said, has been coming since 2009, and we want this change to be lasting, to be reformed and to be made with a broad consensus. The first thing that allows us the royal decree-law is a normative, regulatory development. However, given their importance, we have already begun on 17 of this month contacts with the different political formations to consult them on how we have to make the regulatory developments of this decree-law, although it is for the Government to make that regulatory development, we certainly want to do so with the maximum possible consensus. As I said earlier, this will allow us, first, to establish different categories of vulnerable customers, something that the previous regulation did not properly define, and that would be clarified. On the other hand, we must make the development of this royal decree-law compatible with the new guidelines given by the European Commission in the so-called winter package. The definition of what a social bonus or social aid would be is more limited, more limited in the way in which the Commission's proposal acts in the energy field, not so in the social sphere. Although this proposal is not yet clearly Community legislation in force, the most sensible thing is for us to make a regulatory development that is either compatible with what is going to be in the future and therefore we do not have to change it again. In this respect, the European Commission is seeking that the price signal, that is, the price paid for energy by different consumers, be the same for all, which does not, at least in our view, prevent discounts from being applied, such as the old social bonus and what we would like to develop, although with different categories of consumers, as I said earlier. According to Eurostat, what we have in Spain is 8.8% of the population with delays in the payment of energy supplies, a figure very similar to that of the European Union, which is 8.4%. On the other hand, according to Eurostat, in Spain we would be around 10% of the population living in energy poverty, with difficulty in accessing energy services, also a figure more or less in line with the EU average of 9.4%. We would be talking in Spain about about about five million people - the current social bonus applies to 2.4 million households, which means about seven million citizens - and that the order of magnitude of the current social bonus corresponds, in large numbers, to what Eurostat is telling us about access to energy poverty. This is not, therefore, a substantial quantitative change, but a qualitative change, that is to say, that we are able to give aid to those who are really in a situation of energy poverty. The previous system provided a social bonus for those families with all their members unemployed, for pensioners with minimum pensions, large families or consumers with a contracted power of less than 3 kilowatts. I believe that there is a broad consensus throughout the House that this list should be amended, that it should address in a more comprehensive way the real social needs and, above all, that it should apply an income criterion. The income criterion is implicit in the current classification, but not as explicit as all political forces have stated they want. The government foresees broad features - then each category of consumer could have its own category, but all this has to be discussed with the European Union; by the way, this decree-law has already been sent to Brussels and has not so far expressed any exceptions - three types of vulnerable categories of consumers. In addition, at the request of the Citizens' Group, a national register could be established for such consumers who are in a vulnerable situation. A first category would come to broadly coincide with the current group. We are talking about several million households, in figures similar to what we are seeing of energy poverty, that would keep the current situation at a 25% discount and that it will be new that the time between default and supply cuts will be extended from two to four months. Secondly, we could think of a second category of consumers among the hundreds of thousands who are going to need a lower aid intensity because their level of income or their ability to access energy is more complicated. Clearly, we would have to look for higher levels of aid intensity. In this recomposition for income and some groups that perhaps do not make much sense belonging to the current social bonus, we would have what falls within the competence of the General Administration of the State and the General Courts, which is the energy policy and the application of these social aids within the scope of that energy policy. But this royal decree-law goes beyond, seeks to unite two worlds that so far have been quite separate and have generated a huge legal conflict and between administrations. On the one hand, we have the competence of the General Courts and the Government in energy matters. Everything that affects all consumers can only be regulated in these Courts by regulation, or by ministerial order, by the Government. On the other hand, competence in social matters is exclusive to the autonomous communities, assumed by the statutes of autonomy and in many cases agreed or assigned to local corporations. We have encountered two worlds that have often come into conflict or have not had the capacity to properly understand each other. This is what is done in this third part of the royal decree-law, it seeks to unite. The objective of the policy is to seek solutions and not to create problems or legal conflicts between administrations. What we are going to do is to treat those consumers who are in a particularly severe situation, who are vulnerable in a situation far more difficult than I mentioned earlier, people who already have a serious difficulty in paying. It is not that the payment is expensive for them, it is that they have a huge difficulty to attend to the payment. They are people who fall within the scope of social workers, social policies, social services of autonomous communities and local corporations. Basically, the novelty is that a general mechanism is established for the entire national territory that would operate as follows: At the time when the default of an electrical supply occurs, the company has an obligation to communicate it to the user; even if it is surprising, this obligation does not exist today. Then it is important, first, that you can communicate to the user and tell him: you are in a situation of default. The vast majority of defaults are resolved in the following hours or in the following few days. However, of course, we are faced with complex cases, with cases that need to be dealt with socially. At the same time as this non-payment is reported, the social services of the autonomous community will be notified that they will have these four months to respond. In the meantime, there can be no interruption of supply for those consumers who are in the PVPC. In any case, the services of the autonomous community, if they find that this consumer is not in PVPC, on behalf of that consumer will be able to request it. This is a very important issue to give maximum protection to the consumer. The services of the autonomous community, from then on, are taken care of; that is where we are respectful of the autonomous competences, it is already the task of the autonomous community itself to evaluate. If they had not evaluated these consumers it will serve as an early warning system, because social services do not have to have detected all socially complex cases. This system will also help to detect them and if they had already detected them already have the evaluation done. Do the assessment, the autonomous community - and also the local corporations - takes care of the energy care of these consumers with their own funds, as has already happened. But the novelty is, moreover, that the social bonus provides co-financing. The State does not have a management capacity in the social autonomic field, first, because it is not its competence and, second, because it has no social workers, that is of the autonomous communities. But we can put social bonus resources at the disposal of autonomous communities and local corporations, and this is exactly what we need to develop with the autonomous administrations. It is a complex subject but it has to be carried out. The great novelty is that, first of all, we have a system; that system allows for an alert to social services; social services are in charge and, in addition, they will receive additional co-financing from the social bonus that has not existed so far. These are essentially the main developments in this area, the vulnerability issues that would consist, as I said earlier, in two elements. A discount, a discount on the price for those who have difficulty of access and, second, a prohibition of cutting in the supply in two phases up to four months - of course they are attended by social services - plus an extension of the social bonus both because of the intensity of aid, as I said before, as well as because it helps to finance the most severe, most vulnerable situations of which social services are responsible. Finally, it has one last very important regulatory development disability which is a protection for all consumers, not just the vulnerable. It is an improvement of the rules on marketing in the case of the electricity sector in which we would increase, through regulation, transparency in contracting and the obligation to inform consumers about the disadvantages and advantages of the different offers, including the fact that the PVPC includes the social bonus and, moreover, what advantages and rights are to be gained by switching to a free contract with all its consequences. Some kind of user-friendly indicator will also be developed to compare between the different offers, something similar to what was done in the financial sphere when the EAR was created to compare some mortgages with others. They would be a series of simple and easily understandable energy indicators so that the different offers that different traders, both on the free market and the PVPC itself, can offer to consumers can be compared, and finally, as I said earlier, improvements in the supply suspension procedures by giving more guarantees to all consumers. As I say, it is a broad package that will require more consensus because although regulatory development, of course, is the responsibility of the Government, it is such a sensitive matter and it has been so well disposed by the vast majority of groups that I believe it is appropriate even for the regulatory sphere to continue to be discussed with them, we receive the various contributions - we have already received some - and that is why we will be taking these regulatory developments out. It must also, of course, be discussed with the autonomous communities which have a social capacity. I ask you to vote in favour of such an important matter in which the level of consensus that we have found has been broad, in which the positions I have not found so far apart, although legitimately everyone has their opinion of what has to be done or not, who has to be covered more or less or the aid intensities. Obviously in this each group has its own opinion and is one hundred per cent respectable, but it is also true that I believe that dialogue has been very fruitful. The result of this is this royal decree-law that we have come to validate today and, as I said earlier, that we continue to dialogue on this issue with parliamentary groups. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u31	Thank you very much. He has requested the use of the turn against the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. To that end, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor on behalf of that group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u32	Thank you, President. In Spain there are more than five million people suffering from energy poverty, living in situations of energy vulnerability, who cannot guarantee that their homes are at an adequate temperature. In Spain, in a country in the so-called developed world and a member of the European Union, there are 7,100 annual deaths associated with energy poverty. We have seen with sadness, with anger, how in this country older women and men lost their lives by a badly extinguished candle, like the Mrs. de Reus who died a few months ago in a fire because a company, Gas Natural, did not comply with the Catalan law that prevented cut off the energy supply. We have shared the outrage of millions of people at an abusive electricity bill that has increased by 76% over the past ten years. According to Eurostat, we are one of the four countries with the most expensive energy in Europe. Talking about energy is talking about dignity and social rights. Energy poverty does not allow a decent life; the difficulty in accessing basic supplies such as water, light or gas affects hygiene, health and often generates over-indebtedness, overmortality and social isolation. And why in Spain do we have this situation? I think that's the question we'd have to ask ourselves. Because energy inequality is one of the dimensions of inequality. The IMF told us that in Spain the richest 20% is seven times richer than the poorest 20%, said the black lords of the IMF. Millions of people are trapped in the triangle of expensive energy, low incomes - even among working people we have 14% of working poverty - and poor quality buildings with no energy efficiency. High prices, low incomes and a state legislation that continues without considering that energy rights are human rights that cannot be violated under any circumstances, that is the fundamental issue. While that happens, the three major electricity companies are being supplied: Endesa, Iberdrola and Gas Natural won, from 2008 to 2015, €37 billion between Spain and Portugal. The members of their boards of directors are provided, the big shareholders are provided while ordering the cutting of supplies for irritating debts. Spanish companies are the electricity companies with the highest profit rates in Europe, while their customers also have the highest levels of energy poverty in Europe. And they earn a lot not for how well managed they are but for poor regulation decided by both the PSOE and the People's Party governments, which has allowed things like the fallen benefits of heaven or the famous costs of transition to competition. These large companies still have the character of systematically resorting to the courts for whatever measure, be it the real decrees of 2009 or 2012 or the much more ambitious regulation of the Catalan law. The fundamental problem is that the real objective of energy policy in Spain has not been to guarantee rights and the provision of a quality public service, but to maintain, guarantee and maximise the rate of profits of large electricity companies. And today, why is energy poverty on the political agenda? The People's Party Government did not approve any of the opposition's proposals on energy poverty in the past legislature. It is true that you do not have an absolute majority, but it is true that today energy poverty is on the political agenda because our society no longer assumes that it is normal for a person to die from a badly extinguished candle or for families to pass cold. Most people demand that we put an end to what we have heard so many times and that it is so true that energy poverty kills. Putting all this on the political agenda has been achieved thanks to social movements, consumer organizations, trade unions, movements for a new energy model, the mortgage-affected Platform and the Alliance against Energy Poverty. Modestly, that Unite Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea is the third group in this House, within walking distance of the second, also makes indifference no longer possible. Today our society no longer consents to social insensitivity but, minister, we believe that we are coming late - you yourself spoke of the shortcomings of the previous royal decrees regulating the social bonus - and we are going badly to effective measures against energy poverty. We are late and bad because this actual decree-law that is presented is not a real law of mitigation and reduction of energy poverty. It is only necessary to read the preamble to see that the fundamental objective of this royal decree, the first, is first and foremost to solve the problem of financing after the Supreme Court declared the financing of the social bonus inapplicable because it is contrary to European law. Of course it is necessary to legislate on energy poverty, yes, but not so! We believe that this royal decree-law will not solve either the financing of the social bond or energy poverty with full guarantees. We will not solve this because it is part of a restrictive conception of energy poverty only related to electricity when electricity consumption accounts for 35% of household consumption, with 65 % remaining natural gas, diesel, butane and other fuels intended to maintain the thermal conditions of homes. Nor will we solve it this way because Mrs. de Reus, Rosa, would not be protected by this royal decree-law in its literality because this royal decree-law establishes restrictive conditions to be considered a severe vulnerable consumer. To be a beneficiary of the social bonus - says the royal decree-law - it is necessary to be attended by the social services because they are at risk of social exclusion. Ms. de Reus had no social bonus, had a contract in the free market and social services had no record of her situation. There is a risk of leaving a large part of the affected population out. The social bonus in Spain, unlike other countries, such as Portugal, is not automatic according to income, but voluntary. We have a serious problem because many companies, as you know - and I think you have mentioned it before - make misleading offers for their customers to move from the PVPC, from the voluntary price of the small consumer, to a contract in the free market. Also, do you know how many people at risk of non-payment are being served and registered in social services? For example, in Barcelona City Council only 20%, and it is one of the cities that most people attend to with this circumstance. You will tell me that this can be specified or resolved in the regulation, but the literality of the royal decree-law leaves little room, at least as far as the social bonus is concerned. Minister, you cannot claim that social services now act as marketers by passing users from one type of contract to another; a clear, simple procedure is needed that does not discourage people affected by falling into a bureaucratic maran. Vulnerable consumer protection cannot be established on the basis of the business relationship of the person concerned with any enterprise, it cannot be subject to what kind of business relationship a person has. Protection against cuts must be for all vulnerable consumers, without more requirements than the income criterion, and this is a fundamental issue. The precautionary principle should be clearly applied. Take an example of the Catalan law; protection must be clear before the courts, positive silence must be applied even when the temporary term - the four months established - passes and it must be the company, and not the person affected, that comes into contact with the social services, and this without generating new repayable debts for the families concerned. It is necessary to charge a fee in the design of the social bonus from the income, with discounts that can reach 100 per cent in case of family units without income. A fee is required that takes into account the fact that older and dependent people or people who require high energy consumption for health reasons live in the home; a fee that by law establishes the guarantee of access for the whole population to a basic supply of gas and electricity, that promotes energy efficiency and does not amount to more than 10% of household income. All these criteria should be in the royal decree-law. On the other issue, the funding, on this occasion the Government's option, has been that it should fall only on the marketers and not on the companies carrying out generation, transport or distribution activities. The financing of the social bonus must be borne by the companies and not by the state budgets - we agree with that - but the problem is that it is borne by small traders, measured in their customer share - by all traders, also by small traders - so that a marketer who sells to small domestic consumers or SMEs will pay proportionally more than a marketer who sells to large industries representing fewer customers. This is a bomb for small local marketers and cooperatives, such as Cádiz Energy, Goiener or Som Energia, which will have to allocate more than half of their profit margin to the social bonus, which on the other hand cannot offer to their customers; only large reference marketers can do so, with the added risk that this will impact on the electricity bill. By the way, they are small traders who have never benefited from the traps of the system, the fallen benefits of the sky or the costs of transition to competition. In addition, large consumers who buy their electricity directly from the market without a marketer are not included, a new argument from companies to bring an appeal to the courts and make the ball even bigger. A non-discriminatory, proportionate and fair form of financing is needed. The financing of the social bonus must be borne by the enterprises. Yesterday we read in a journalistic information that they were thinking that the financing of the social bonus, the whole social bonus, would also fall on the public administrations, something that would seem not only unfair, but a big mistake. Groups voting in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law are giving a blank cheque to the government. If this royal decree-law is not dealt with as we propose, like a bill, they will sign a blank cheque to the government, because the part that affects energy poverty most directly - definition of vulnerable consumer in its typologies - as well as the financing that companies, courts and procedures will have to assume will be in the hands of the government alone. It is true that the Minister has invited us to participate in a table on the regulation, but we all know that the Government has full capacity to adopt those regulations. The fundamental thing is not in the law, but in the regulations, and that is the exclusive power of the Government, although the parliamentary groups have the guarantee of the capacity to intervene that gives parliamentary processing. We do not sign blank cheques based on blind trust in the government that we do not share, and I have to say that we are very sorry that the government has not engaged in dialogue with social organizations, with the Alliance against Energy Poverty, with trade unions, with organisations that are at the foot of the canyon, who know first hand what is happening with energy poverty and who are managing it. We very much regret that you did not dialogue with these organizations, despite being asked to do so, and that the PSOE was complicit in that lack of dialogue; but no wonder, you did the same with the minimum wage, with the issue of pensions and with the ground clauses. The operation does not take place with social organizations and movements. We regret that the PSOE has opted for the agreement with the PP and not for an alliance with us, with other groups and with social movements to go beyond this insufficient royal decree-law. Where has it been since Congress to rule, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE? Where is the will to lead the opposition? Between building the alternative for change or supporting status, you always or almost always decide to support the established order. And don't tell us it's out of responsibility or utility. Responsibility and utility is to guarantee once and for all rights, to end energy poverty and the privileges of electric oligopoly. That is the responsibility of the progressives. In our view, we have missed an opportunity to guarantee the right to energy and to legislate a real tariff that guarantees the right to consumption of a minimum of vital energy with criteria of income and energy efficiency. But we still have a possibility, which is to process the royal decree-law as a bill to improve and clarify it, to have the opinion of social organizations and to reach a real pact against energy poverty. Our vote will be conditional on whether or not it is processed as a bill in this Congress, whether or not it is processed or prevented from passing a real decree-law that is not up to the serious social problem of energy poverty and the demands of a society that no longer admits patches. We are not going to endorse a real decree-law that intends to anesthetize and dilute the debate on energy poverty by showing that everything is solved when this is not true. We will continue to press the institutions and the street to end energy poverty once and for all, because our goal is as revolutionary as the fulfilment of the international commitments signed by Spain, such as the General Comment No. 4 of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the United Nations, which points out that a decent standard of living...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u33	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u34	I'm done, President. ... indicating that a decent standard of living requires adequate housing with access to basic supplies such as lighting or heating. We want what the Catalan Law 24/2015 against energy poverty says: that public administrations must guarantee the right of access to basic supplies of drinking water, gas and electricity to persons and family units at risk of residential exclusion. That's our goal. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u35	We're moving on to position-fixing. Mr Quevedo Iturbe spoke first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, as I have less time than I thought, I do not need to tell you what a substantial part of this House thinks about the Spanish energy model, do I? Much cost, many benefits, high deregulation, an orgy of the markets from time to time, such as that which has had an impact on the scandalous increase in prices, etc. However, we are talking about something that affects no more than five million people - especially 100,000 - and New Canarias recognizes that it is necessary to address it. We believe that there are some elements to be valued in all this that I do not have time to highlight now. I will only tell you that we will be attentive to the evolution of things and that in this case it seems to us that there are elements that justify the support for the validation of this royal decree, trusting that we will then enter into the background of the problem, which is that the Spanish energy system does not respond to the general interests. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u37	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, in this minute and a half I would like to say, first of all, that we think it is appropriate and urgent for us to have the decree that it brings. The electrics resorted and, if the problem is that it wasn't 6 %, we put them all. Indeed. Secondly, the social bonus, at this moment in which there is so much sensitivity, has to be resolved now. That's why an urgent decree comes. In addition, the new status of host vulnerable consumers is being determined, which will be fundamental in its regulatory development, as agreed at the Conference of Presidents, in which there were autonomous presidents of all political colours. We need to reach that consensus in the regulation in order to determine all the criteria and the procedure and protocol that the Autonomous Communities must have, because in the end this is a social issue, which is the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Communities. The role of the National Competition Market Commission in this area seems appropriate to us. All I have to say is that I hope that that consensus that has been so far, that transparency and that contribution not only from the political forces - because this is not just from here - but from all the autonomous communities is what ultimately determines that there is no energy poverty in this country and that people who cannot afford it and need it are not cut off. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are faced with an unequivocal advance, which has greater value if it can be achieved after the large and successive increases in the receipt of light. These are measures that come after the judicial annulment that gave the reason to the electric companies in relation to the mechanism of financing the cost of the existing social bond, a mechanism contrary to the law of the European Union. They are an option to relieve the invoice that in Asturias has registered in the order of 36,000 beneficiaries. While agreeing that the income criterion is gradually being applied and further developed, a reform that introduces a ban on the suspension of supply to vulnerable consumers is very relevant in the legislation of the electricity sector. But that is not enough, Minister of Energy, and the Government must continue to make progress in the reforms so that in Spain there is an electricity market that can be approved with European countries and that will stop Spanish households paying the third most expensive electricity in Europe before taxes or that our industry is severely threatened with relocation, which is the fastest way to go to unemployment and, therefore, the fastest way to energy poverty. I conclude by pointing out that the Minister of Energy has personally involved himself in this rapid progress on the social bonus, as evidenced by the holding of several monographic meetings with parliamentary groups. Forum was a participant and it seems to us that this is a real decree-law that has put at the center of its attention the solutions to protect the vulnerable consumer. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u42	Good afternoon and thank you, Madam President. I'll give you seven ideas at light speed. Firstly, I would like to announce our vote in favour. Secondly, I would like to welcome the broad political agreement that precedes this agreement, which responds to what we have always said when we face a major problem, and it is that we must forget about partisanism and put ourselves to work together by making proposals, with dialogue and seeking solutions. I believe that this is what has now been done openly, sincerely and empathically, because this is a very important social problem. Thirdly, I believe that this agreement dignifies political action. Today we can say that politics and politicians serve to solve problems. Fourthly, I think it also breaks a taboo, that taboo that solemnizes that between left and right it is not possible to agree. I believe that it is also important today, both in the actual previous and later decrees, to give that image that together we can work together to present solutions to important problems. Fifthly, I believe that if it is possible to agree on a specific issue, perhaps we could suggest extending it to other more generic issues that also affect your ministry with that same philosophy. Sixthly, it is important to say that we should consider parliamentary arithmetic as an opportunity for agreement and not as a confrontation or a fight for permanent dialectic boxing. Finally, it shows something else, and it is that the flag of the social is not a heritage of anyone but a commitment of all, and I believe that we are right when we all share that same desire to help the most vulnerable, the most disadvantaged and the families that are going through it worse. I'll finish with a thought. It is true that there will be a regulatory development in which we too would like to participate and present our ideas. In particular, we would like to ask that, in this development, some realities, such as large families, be recognized for their contribution to the progress and renewal of our society. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. We cannot conclude, in view of the raquitic nature of the measure presented, that this is a matter of great concern to the current rulers of the Spanish State, as they wanted us to believe during the cold wave. What they present is really a modification of a social bonus that already exists since 2009, leaving all their capacity to act to that measure, which in addition, allow me to point it out, has more a tuff of charitable or assistanceist help than structural. If they really cared about energy poverty, if they really understood what energy poverty was, they would have put forward a comprehensive proposal. They would have here a comprehensive proposal that would talk, for example and among other things, about social tariffs based on progressiveness, something that seems not yet to arise; that would talk about a shock plan for energy efficiency. Please explain to the citizens of the Spanish State why in the Spanish State, together with other countries in southern Europe, there is greater energy poverty than in the countries in northern Europe, which suffer from much worse climatic conditions than those suffered by the Spanish State. Explain why the Spanish State is at the back of energy efficiency. Please also explain why there is no bet on a renewable-based energy model and why they intend to reopen again obsolete nuclear power plants, such as Garoña's, or to maintain others that should be on their way to closure. They lack, in any case, initiative and momentum to influence decisively as a government in a strategic sector. But if they do not, energy poverty will continue to grow. In Gipuzkoa, the province with the least unemployment, there are already more than 112,000 people in energy poverty, 20% of the population. It's enough as an example. But the number of deaths linked to energy poverty will also continue to grow. The WHO talks about 30% deaths in the winter peak; that's for many hundreds of people in the Spanish state. I'm done. You promise here initiatives that are tirite, while still leaving the scalpel in the hands of oligopolies who act as psychopaths with the majority of the population; with the majority, because some are lucky enough to have rotating doors and armchairs on their boards of directors. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. It has been the municipalities, basically the social services, that with public money have stopped the cuts and paid the receipts. Some municipalities of change, to which you call populists - for example, the City of Valencia - have paid this year two thousand five hundred receipts worth more than 315,000 euros. Pure populism. While in 2105 there had been 500,000 light cuts and energy poverty had already affected 1% of the population, 7 million households with difficulties, companies had won a lot of millions. The effort of so expensive light has been paid for by families, businesses, SMEs, self-employed people, municipalities and autonomous communities. This decree has some positive aspect, such as the obligation of the social services report before cutting or the necessary definition of vulnerable consumers, but it is insufficient, because it does not fully respond to the drama of energy poverty and is confined to electricity consumption, only 35% of households, when it should protect far beyond the voluntary price to the small consumer. I mean, there's clients out there. I'm done. A law against energy poverty should be drafted. Minister, I insist on the commitment to renewable energy, because it would help us to have more energy sovereignty and less dependence, and for self-consumption, which would help vulnerable families, because it is always better to help families gain independence than to continue paying receipts. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canadés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we must thank you for your attitude in this discussion which has allowed us to exchange views with the parliamentary groups, but my group is not going to be able to support this royal decree and is going to abstain. The Government is late in this matter. Clearly, if the Government had had the same attitude during the worst years of the crisis and had created an adequate social bonus, we would probably have minimized the consequences of energy poverty. It has been the autonomous communities, the municipalities and the social movements that have pushed. At the time when the social bonus did not work, Catalonia was a pioneer in the political commitment to reduce the consequences of this energy poverty and we have met on three occasions with the state's challenges. Finally, on the last occasion, there was a political agreement that saved Catalan legislation, that of 2015, but on two other occasions Catalonia's attempts to deal with this situation have been frustrated, castrated and eliminated by government policy. Moreover, in part it goes wrong; it goes wrong - other speakers have already said it - because we leave too many issues open to regulatory development. It would be reasonable for us today to pass this royal decree-law as a bill and to determine in Parliament and with the agreement of all groups the threshold of the vulnerable consumer, the threshold of the highly vulnerable consumer and the procedures that would allow us to safeguard the autonomous competences in this area.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u49	You have to finish, Mr. Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u50	You invite us to make this regulation in the Rules of Procedure. There, sir, you ask us too much confidence given your history in the last legislature. I'm so sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u52	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Why a new decree to regulate the social bonus? Because they have established or analyzed different situations or problems they already had? No; by the Supreme Court's ruling against the royal decree regulating the system of financing the social bond of light, which highlights the failure of the Government's energy model. The decree addresses one problem: energy poverty. It is a poverty resulting from the economic crisis and that families are suffering. There are determining factors that have led to this situation - the crisis, the price of energy, unemployment and, therefore, income - but the new regulation of the social bonus is also the result, as I have said, of the Supreme Court's ruling which again highlights the failure of the energy model, whose main disadvantages are consumers. It is a model that has generated and generates insecurity and does not protect citizens in a service as essential as electricity. This failure had already been announced on numerous occasions. On this issue we must work towards an integral solution, with a system of social protection that is supportive of society and leaves no one behind. We must establish the conditions or means to generate employment, so that we can have a solidarity society and not a subsidized society. The tendency must be to avoid having to deal with the obligation to establish such measures. As I have already commented and given that the problem among others is caused by the rise in energy prices, is it not the time to address the revision of the tariff system?In addition, not only for this group but also for industry, so that it is more competitive, generates wealth and employment and helps to reduce this type of situation. Vulnerable consumers must be identified and protected, energy efficiency of households improved and social measures implemented to alleviate the effects of these new situations that are emerging. We in Euskadi have already addressed these situations through income-guarantee income and social emergency aid, in order to live with dignity, with housing, water and also energy costs; to deal with situations arising from so-called energy poverty, which includes expenditure on electricity, gas and other domestic fuels. These measures allow us to improve the distribution of the benefit to meet new forms of poverty; to modulate access to social emergency aid in the light of professional assessment of the adequacy of the aid; to streamline the procedure of capital or money transfers between local and autonomous levels; and also to forward information between local authorities and the Basque Government in order to be able to improve and establish better measures if necessary. They are therefore coordinated with the various institutional levels; the Basque Government, the deputies and the municipalities set the requirements for access, and the basic social services evaluate the specific case in order to assess whether a person meets the requirements for access to this type of aid. In addition, in the Basque Country we have also reached an agreement establishing the necessary coordination mechanisms to prevent the suspension of electricity and/or gas supply due to non-invoice payments to economically disadvantaged citizens. There is also a commitment not to suspend the supply of electricity and gas to vulnerable customers while the granting of the economic benefit is being managed. In short, as we have already said, we believe that there must be a dialogue between energy and social assistance policies, taking into account also that energy policy in the Basque Country is a shared competence and that of social assistance is exclusive. It is in this balance that we will have to find ourselves, but since this royal decree seeks to regulate aspects in which we have exclusive competence, we understand that it can be an attempt by the Government to re-centralize and that it can interfere in competences attributed above all to the level of local administrations, which also function and know perfectly well the reality of these types of situations and collectives. For this reason, and having regulated this type of aid, we will abstain in the validation of this decree. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u53	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u54	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. We will vote no to this royal decree because it continues to benefit the five large companies of the electric oligopoly and does not reliably protect the vulnerable consumer with regard to the light cuts. To begin with, we want to make it clear that when we talk about energy poverty, the look should be a little broader, more transversal. Measures cannot be taken separately. The need for decent work, decent housing, a decent health system, and decent education is as important as developing a social bonus system for vulnerable consumers. Energy poverty is another manifestation of the integral phenomenon of poverty, poverty understood as social exclusion by barriers to the decent labour market or the lack of affordable housing. The social bonus is nothing more than a patch with regard to the energy problem in the Spanish State. If we do not apply that broad look that we all asked for, we are clear that the price of light is like a kind of black hole in which the hidden benefits of the oligopoly of the electrical sector are incorporated. The audit of the tariff deficit - Minister, I think I will become your Malaysian drop, I'm sorry -, which we will continue to insist on, is essential for the citizens to finally have a fairer light price. More than a social bonus, the law should oblige the necessary co-responsibility of companies to ensure such a fundamental supply that it should be a basic right. Companies should be involved by law in the dissemination of information about their clients' rights, in the contribution to finance aid in kind and in contributions to minimize the problems of the hundreds of thousands of affected families. They should speak less and less cynically about CSR and apply it more. Finally, and before going into the analysis of four points of your royal decree-law, let me point out to you that it is only one of the multiple legal, normative labyrinths, by which the electrical sector is constituted and that make it impenetrable for any citizen to know and understand what they are actually charging you. The maze is not only normative but also legal, and I believe that here we will find a point in common with the minister. With the intention to shed light on this, this Member presented last week a written question, which this morning has been qualified, taking into account how many resources have been put by electricity companies operating in Spain against state legal rules in the last ten years, what administrative provisions, what law-class rules have been appealed and what are the recurring companies. Going into the details of several articles, I would like to start with Article 45(4), which indicates that the bonus will not be taken over by the matrices of the groups of companies that are active in the commercialization of electricity. Catalans owe some important things to Josep Pla, among others, the advice they used to give to Catalans when they came to Madrid. He would repeat to us that we would always ask ourselves the same question, which is: and who pays for this? Well, with the social bonus, the same thing. From the point of view of Esquerra Republicana the answer is very simple: if the objective is to bring light to people who cannot bear this cost, this cost we have to bear it among all those who we make come to them the light. And here come, of course, the activities of generation, transport, distribution, in addition to marketing. Therefore, the distribution of quantities should be made from the activities of the entire energy value chain: generation, transport, distribution and marketing - I repeat - including the part of the State that also participates in the process. The specific formula would not include small and only marketing companies, which should only pay their share according to the overall billing for the combined set of activities and not just for the number of customers. The argument used is that if non-corporate traders are excluded, the rule is discriminatory. The argument is true, but the problem is that we are sharing a cost between very different companies. Large corporate groups have electricity generation, distribution and marketing businesses and their share of the bond will be distributed among their different businesses. This would not be the case for small traders, who will feel a greater impact of the bonus. The deal is not the same, as we are meant to see. On Article 52(3), which says that if after four months from the first request - which the minister has well explained that it is that of the company with the customer - the payment would not have become effective, the supply may be interrupted. A four-month period may seem acceptable to achieve some solution through social services for vulnerable consumers. But what happens if month four coincides with winter and no solution has been found? The legislation of many countries states that services to vulnerable consumers cannot be cut in any way during the winter months. It's the known winter truce. The precautionary principle should be introduced, as stated in the Catalan Law 24/2015, of housing emergency and energy poverty, according to which companies must communicate to the basic areas of social services the notices of cut-off to consumers, in order to ask for a report of social vulnerability. As long as it is not shown whether the consumer is in a situation of energy poverty, no cut in supply can be made. In practice, the Royal Decree-Law should state that the local social service bodies are the ones that implement aid or compensate for the capacity to pay of the affected families, paying directly the bills. We also express our doubts with regard to Article 52(4) (j), which refers to the application of surcharges. Applying surcharges or interest to a debt is normal in any market, but we are concerned that no pattern of how many surcharges can be applied is established. Competition in the electricity sector is far from perfect, because it is susceptible to abuse, and our experience with the electricity sector is that, in general, they do not have this very clear concept. There are many vestments left to achieve the effectiveness sought with the social bonus, not only to avoid fraud, which would surely occur, but also to really get to the majority of the affected population and avoid that in no case is the light cut off to any vulnerable person. I will also recall, as I said at the beginning, that this measure should be accompanied by others, some very clear training and information to the citizens on what the bill of light means - we already proposed to the minister at his appearance last Thursday some simple measure in this regard -, others to improve and encourage the energy efficiency of housing and education on energy saving. We conclude by reiterating that our group will vote against the validation of this royal decree-law. If it is validated, we will request that it be processed as a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u55	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u56	President, members of the Bureau, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to talk about the social bonus. Some colleagues have already given quite significant data, such as that more than 4.5 million Spaniards have problems paying for basic service receipts such as, for example, the receipt of light. If we bring that data closer to the terms we all know best, we can say that one in ten households in this country has problems paying for those receipts, also that of light. In the end, this is the consequence of the economic crisis that we have experienced and the unemployment rates that we have, but if this relates to the rise in prices over the past two years, when gas has increased by 22%, water has increased by 8.5%, butane has increased by 23% or the receipt of the light of this January that ends today can increase by 28.56 %, these are more than enough reasons for us to be debating what the social bonus is today. The European Union already made the diagnosis in 2009 with European Directives 2009/72 and 2009/73, which oblige member countries to take measures to alleviate this situation. The European Economic and Social Committee also said in 2011 that the situation of vulnerability is a social priority and needs the support of countries; and in the 2013 report it said that energy is a common and essential good that allows the citizen to have a decent life, and that is precisely why we are talking about social bonus today. Successive Governments in this country have not established effective policies in this area, and in the end there has been a constant improvisation that has prevented forecasts from being made to prevent the situation we are debating today. There are many households that cannot pay for these receipts and regardless of whether they have an efficient consumption pattern or do not turn on too much light, the fixed costs of the system will continue to rise and we continue to make no prevention plan. The reality and the summary is that there is no planning and, as there is no planning, I repeat, today we are discussing social bonus. This royal decree-law is the fruit of the agreement and that is positive because it is necessary to transmit not only to your lordships but also to the people who are outside this Congress that there are important issues that we are able to sit down to talk about, beyond the ideologies of the rest of political parties. From Citizens we want to thank you for the suggestions and thoughts that have made us part of civil society about what can be done and how. The first document provided by the Government amended only four very specific paragraphs in two articles. This seemed insufficient to us, but as that document was opened for discussion among the rest of the political formations, we understand that it wanted to go to maximums and start from a base of minimums, or that is what we think. For Citizens, therefore, it was essential to introduce the explicit reference to the situation of vulnerable consumers, because it was not taken as such. With the criteria before this royal decree - so that they know, because there are many people who do not know -, any family that had a good payroll, with having hired a power less than 3 kilowatts or, for example, being a large family, could benefit from the social bonus, with which we can ask ourselves the following question: Did the social bonus really have criteria for reaching out to those who had to arrive or were followed certain criteria that made many people who did not need it welcome him? That is why for us - now this royal decree and also the explanatory statement, and we hope that it will also be covered by the regulation - it is necessary to redefine what the vulnerable consumer is and to link him to the income criteria. Of course, from there, there will be mitigating factors, but the income criterion is essential for this to come forward. Coordination with the autonomous communities is also necessary, because then we see political forces that come here and are always dividing between autonomous competition and national competition. What do you want me to tell them? On the issue of poverty, social rights and the application of the social bonus to the citizens of all these autonomous communities, I believe that it must take precedence over a criterion of collaboration, of sharing documentation and, above all, of being efficient in order to avoid cases such as that of Reus, which have already been mentioned by other colleagues, which in the end was a compendium of miscommunication between different administrations. There must be collaboration between the autonomous communities and the State and not always be in the sense that they are going to invade our competences. There are issues we need to work on. That is why - as the Minister also said in his presentation - it has been introduced, at the request of Citizens, that this period to make the court, instead of two months, be four months, so that the social services have more time to prepare these reports. If we don't give them more time, if there's no communication, they can hardly do their job. In conclusion, in order not to extend, in the first draft we understand that there were minimal changes that sought to save the Constitutional Court's ruling, but thanks to the agreement and the contribution of different political forces a more ambitious royal decree has been reached. Citizens have bet that this tariff is progressive according to the type of vulnerable consumer - we all know that there are different types of consumer and different types of needs to obtain such aid -; because of this increase of lack to four months until the report is issued; because the severe vulnerable consumer also has its definition, because, as this royal decree says, consumers who are in an extreme situation will not be able to make cuts - I think we have to start to leave the demagoguey aside and read well all the guidelines of the agreement - and, of course, by the registration of the administration of vulnerable consumers. It is necessary to know how many people we have to help, who our citizens are and especially how much money will cost us everything to be able to help them. In short, this royal decree also sets a period of three months to develop this regulation, which we hope will also emerge from the agreement. It was already foreseen in a foreplay of that royal decree, in that explanatory statement. Citizens already sent to the People's Party last week our proposal for a regulation, our contribution - we hope we feel to negotiate it, to see how it goes - and it included the definition of vulnerable consumer with income criteria and with attenuation according to the number of family members, that there are minors, that there are dependents in that family... In short, that the social bonus should reach those who have to reach it and that what is happening today should not happen; that such aid should also be progressive and fair in view of the particularities of each case, and also differentiation - it is introduced by citizens in this proposal that has brought it to the ministry - between what is extremely vulnerable consumer and what is vulnerable consumer, because they have totally different types of aid. The social bonus does not have to be the same, it has to be different according to consumers and needs. That is why we have proposed that there should be different percentages of aid, as the Minister also commented on in his presentation, and above all a very important thing and which seems to us to be jumping: that the first non-payment should be communicated to the citizen, to the affected person, will make the whole administration work in a more agile way, because if he is a citizen who has not been detected by the social services, with this first letter of non-payment he will go directly to the social services and will be able to alert his case if he is a beneficiary of the social bonus. They'll let me talk about efficiency. I am talking about efficiency because it is not only a matter of taking urgent measures but of seeking the path to reduce the number of people in need of such assistance, because they will be able to move forward. Energy efficiency will play a very important role not only in transition but also in helping vulnerable consumers. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, what this royal decree seeks, and what we hope the regulation will also say, apart from having the consensus of the political forces, is that the social bonus will finally reach those who need it, because today, as you know, there are people who do not need it and welcome it; that the criteria obey family typologies; that there is more information and more transparency in the sector and also in social bonus. They have talked about being late, others arrive very early; we Citizens have just arrived but the problem is not to be late or to be early, the problem is not to be there; the problem is to sit down and do nothing; the problem is to complain without being proactive and end up being anodine. That is the problem we can have in this Chamber. [[Applauds]] Taking urgent measures like these of course we are going to be in order to solve the problems that citizens have, but what we really ask is for planning to be established, because it is not only a matter of alleviating what is happening now but also of preventing it not from happening in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u57	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech I would like to acknowledge all the social organisations and entities that put energy poverty on the political board. With all of them the Socialist Parliamentary Group has worked and we want to thank all of them for their involvement and for their hard work. I would like to highlight the work carried out by the Association of Environmental Sciences, ACA, which with great effort has put numbers and faces to this phenomenon that arose during the economic crisis. Also consumer and user associations, trade unions, the Platform for a new energy model and all entities within it, the Renewable Foundation and many other entities that have passed through our group and with whom we have designed our proposals. During these years we have presented various initiatives in Congress and we have worked from the municipalities, from the deputations and autonomous communities governed by the socialists to care for the families that are going through this hardship. We have also supported and participated in the social mobilizations on the street together with civil society protesting against this injustice. What we will never do, it is true, will be to fight for a banner which, as Members, can change the rules. The first time the Socialist Parliamentary Group presented a proposal for a law on the protection of vulnerable consumers and against energy poverty was in April 2014, three years ago. Unfortunately, that initiative was voted against by the majority of the People's Party because it was simply not among its priorities. However, it was a counter-reform of the electricity sector, the one of 2013, which has deepened the weakness of the system, increased costs for consumers and businesses and increased legal uncertainty for investors. The Government had the opportunity at that time to incorporate article 52 (j) which shields vulnerable families from light cuts, but it did not. And he may have developed the regulation that specifies who vulnerable families are, but he was simply not among their priorities. But things have changed; they have changed and a lot. The need for dialogue has opened the door to the hope of many people waiting for our political decisions to improve their lives. The actual decree-law that we are discussing today modifies the form of financing of the social bonus which, as we all know, is a measure for reducing the electricity tariff in a number of assumptions. This social bonus has been financed by the five major electricity companies in this country, but a Supreme ruling states that the method of financing is discriminatory. The Government had therefore decided to extend funding to all marketers in order to avoid such discrimination. The Socialist Group would have preferred that funding should have been extended to all activities in the sector because of a question of legal certainty and rebalancing of co-responsibility in the face of energy poverty; this is parliamentary activity. For the Socialist Group, although their expectations have not been fully met, the priority has been the prohibition of light cuts and the redefining of which families should receive the social bonus. Both will be possible thanks to the amendments proposed by the Socialist Group and incorporated in this royal decree-law. Although these are the priorities, we are also preparing a regulatory proposal to protect smaller traders who are now included in the financing of the social bonus. This proposal seeks to ensure that the small space available for competition in the electricity sector - we are talking about between 4 and 6 % - is not adversely affected by this measure. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the serious problem of energy poverty, there are different positions: one, to look at the other, which is what the Government wanted to do in the first place, arguing that it did not have the competence to legislate in this area; two, to propose a short-term solution such as those that have been put in place from the local and autonomous levels; three, to oppose providing solutions simply because they are proposed by other parliamentary groups, or four, to adopt structural measures that will definitively remedy the dramatic situations that cause energy poverty, structural measures that are solved by legislation. That's what we're doing here today, it's our role and it's our obligation. The royal decree-law that we are discussing will incorporate in the Electricity Act the express prohibition of cutting off the light of families in poverty. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group we are satisfied that we have achieved this; in the parliamentary negotiation, of course, but it is an objective of enormous social significance. It is very important for us as Social Democrats to be able to tackle poverty from all possible sectoral areas, and to incorporate this article in the Electricity Act is a very important step forward in the fight against inequality and a legislative milestone. That's why and for that at least we're sitting on this bench. From now on, we will continue to work with the autonomous communities on the definition of this regulation that we will have available this week to hand over to the ministry, because what we intend to do is that this regulation will be adopted as soon as possible and that it will allow us to have a procedure as effective as possible so that a case such as that of the deceased in Reus will never happen again. By the way, it would be good if we did not use this case tortuously. We all know, or at least we should know, that the profile of vulnerable households has not yet been defined, which will be done in the regulatory development in which we are all called to participate; therefore, we cannot make unfair extrapolations. We thank the Government for encouraging the participation of all groups in the design and drafting of these regulations, as we all share the diagnosis that the social bonus has not worked properly, because it has not reached those who really needed it. We therefore have the opportunity to make our proposals for measures to combat energy poverty to work and not to happen again what happened in Reus, despite the fact that there was autonomous legislation in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law will prevent the interruption of supply to vulnerable families and will also allow them to access electricity at a price based on their income and not on the market. This amendment takes one more step to ensure the right to basic needs of the citizenry, among which we certainly contemplate basic needs in the home. It is an important step towards a comprehensive policy to combat inequality. In those proposals aimed at this comprehensive fight against inequality, it will be the socialists who propose it. Ladies and gentlemen, and above all Members of the United States We can, if you had been the promoters of this initiative or had achieved that agreement, know that the Socialist Group had voted in favour. Socialists will never be against moving forward in the welfare system for partisan interests. I don't know if you can say the same. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u59	Mr Anaya has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u60	Thank you, Madam President. This royal decree is a measure that is not intended solely for this legislature or for the forthcoming elections; it is a measure that clearly reflects the decision of the majority of this House, of the very large majority, to defend vulnerable consumers. It is a measure that is guaranteeing this right to the next generations because we all know that, according to the National Institute of Statistics, there are 10% of people who have difficulty paying household bills. That is why we want to consolidate this 25% discount on the bill for those who have minimum pensions, for all those families or households with all their unemployed members - even considering that since 2011 this figure has been reduced by 500,000 households, but we still believe it is very important - and also for large families. This, therefore, belongs to the social policy bloc that this party, the People's Party, has been promoting during the past parliamentary term and in this one, which allows nearly 14 million people to have an income dependent on the General Administration of the State thanks to the solidarity of the other thirty-two million Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, the laws passed in this house define who we are, how we behave and what we want to be. Therefore, it seems to me that today is a happy day, a day on which this House responds to a serious problem by seeking the agreement of as many parliamentary groups as possible. I studied and was a student representative at a public institute in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, the Pérez Galdós, and also at the University of Las Palmas and, therefore, I know what it means to protest, to denounce. I know what student activism means, I know it, because it greatly drives political action... It can be seen that Mr Iglesias is curious that a Member of the People's Party can study in a public school and be a student representative. [[Laughter and applause]] Welcome to reality, Mr. Churches, welcome. Well, I want to tell those who are going to vote against that you are already on this side of the table, that politics is to present answers, not ask questions. The policy is to make proposals, it is to work side by side with others, it is to listen, it is to be wrong, it is to risk, it is to make decisions. That's politics. Recently the constitutional father Pérez Llorca said referring to the Transition - and I read it and I take it to this current situation - that we have agreed to reach an agreement and the agreements are not automatic, they are tried, they are tried again and in the end success is achieved, and today we will finally approve the text. See if there is a will to agree that regulatory competence is exclusive to the Government. Mr Nadal, the minister, has invited - and everyone knows it - all groups to participate in the regulatory process, something absolutely new in the political history of our country. Now we are going to go to the 'there is', because there is a lot to be done, there is a lot to be done, but proposals and papers have not yet been seen either in the government or on the part of this parliamentary group. These three regulations which the Minister has presented exhaustively refer to a number of issues. First, that vulnerable consumer defense and the new typology - the consumer with severe vulnerability - and adventure that the invoice of these people will be paid 50% for the electrical system - and I look at the spokesman of Podemos - and the other 50% for the autonomous communities, in an exquisite competition respect and also seeking the commitment of the autonomic actors. I think that's relevant. Secondly, there is a regulation - I believe that Mr Capdevilla or Mr Vendrell or both have alluded to this - which seeks to improve the consumer's knowledge of the bill, prices and contracts, which, together with the start-up of the new electronic meter, will empower consumers to choose when and how much energy they want to consume. This, of course, will bring with it a reduction in prices and a much more efficient demand. Thirdly, everything related to the cutting procedure, which rises to four months. I want to tell Mr Vendrell that this is no time to bring in dramatic situations like the recent one in Reus. I am not in favour of doing this in politics although I think it is important to point this out - and Mr Vendrell was sitting at the table with the rest of the energy speakers when it came to this matter with the minister - and you know perfectly well, Mr Vendrell, that this situation would not have occurred with the current regulation adopted. And it would not have happened because you know, Mr Vendrell - he was sitting at the table with me and with the minister when the regulations were explained -, that, once the default occurs, the company in an early warning procedure has to notify the social services of that situation and after that notification for four months identify what kind of vulnerability this person or the people in that situation was in. Therefore, we can state quite clearly that today we adopt a measure that guarantees that in no case in Spain will anyone have a light cut for reasons related to inability to deal with invoices. Reference has also been made to small traders. 80% of energy is delivered by large companies, but they have 94% of customers. If we pay attention to what you say, we deliver a very large amount of money to these companies and transfer it to the small traders. They've been talking about energy efficiency. This is the government that has launched the National Energy Efficiency Fund, with 260 million, which provides each and every one of the companies without exception - I look at my fellow members of the PSOE - without exception. It is a decided bet to improve the building capacity and therefore reduce the energy consumption of families. You know very well that when we talk about the PVPC, the margin of companies is established by the government through a regulation, and that is why it is those companies that are responsible for the social bonus. In short, this is a matter of general interest, which requires that we understand the triangle when we talk about energy, the political triangle that must define the action in this field in this house: economic sustainability and avoid the deficit situations that we have recently experienced, environmental sustainability and supply guarantee twenty-four hours, seven days a week, if we want the energy to become the transformative lever that guarantees growth, wealth and therefore the generation of employment. I have heard some political force talk about the need to make the economy more competitive, the same ones that suggest that there is no competition in the electricity market and that it is the General Administration of the State that sets the price. It's really curious. That's because they don't know what Benjamin Franklin said about the fact that there is no nation that has been ruined because of trade. If there are those that because of no trade have been ruined or are in ruin, and you know perfectly well what I am referring to. It is clear that environmental sustainability is a priority of the government and for this reason next March, as you met at the meeting with the minister, a new renewable energy auction of 3,000 megawatts will be launched, which together with the 17.3% that exists in the Spanish energy system makes us at the forefront of the renewable energy system throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, security of supply twenty-four hours, seven days a week is not free, one cannot rely on one technology and requires avoiding prejudice and not politicising technologies. In short, ladies and gentlemen, for this pact with which we all agree - energy is a matter that demands that we all reach an agreement that allows this policy to transcend this legislature and reach the next generations - I ask you to make a greater commitment to the present and to the future of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u61	Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 1/2017, OF 20 JANUARY, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR CONSUMER PROTECTION IN THE FIELD OF CLAUSULES ONLY. [[File number 130/000007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u62	We now discuss Royal Decree-Law 1/2017 of 20 January on urgent measures for the protection of consumers with regard to soil clauses. The Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u63	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to appear in this House to request your support for the validation of the Royal Decree-Law of urgent consumer protection measures in the area of soil clauses, a rule that deepens the protection of consumers of banking products. In particular, an alternative way is established to facilitate the return of the quantities unduly satisfied by the consumer to credit institutions, pursuant to certain ground clauses contained in loan agreements or loans secured by mortgages. This rule aims to give consumers an instrument that responds quickly to their complaints. Before moving on to the specific content of this rule, let me refer to the context and background that have brought us here. As you know, so-called ground clauses are set at a minimum threshold below which the variable interest rate cannot be placed. Starting in 2009, as a result of the successive descents of the euribor, the activation of this soil motivated the proliferation of demands requesting the nullity of these clauses. The Supreme Court declared in May 2013, on the occasion of a collective action, the nullity of certain ground clauses not because they were abusive per se, but because of the lack of material transparency required by their content. In addition, the judgment specified that it did not have retroactive effect, thus excluding from the compensation payments already made prior to the date of publication of the court judgment. The criteria to be determined whether these clauses fall within the scope of this rule are those established by the Supreme Court in the above-mentioned judgment of May 2013, which further defines the opacity of the clauses. Thus, for example, they are considered opaque those that appear between an overwhelming amount of data that does not allow the consumer to pay sufficient attention to them, the absence of scenario simulations or the absence of clear and comprehensible prior warning about the cost compared to other products of the entity itself. Following that judgment, two Spanish courts referred questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling on the compatibility of the Supreme Court's doctrine and its temporary limitation with the European Directive on unfair terms. As you are all aware, the European Court of Justice ruled on 21 December that the restitution effects linked to the declaration of the abusive nature of a clause cannot be limited in time. They will therefore apply retroactively to claims affecting payments made prior to the publication of the Supreme Court judgement. That is why the Government, by means of this rule, which we validate today, has established an out-of-court framework so that those affected can claim the return of the amount of certain ground clauses and all this without having to resort to the courts, within the minimum time and at the lowest possible cost to the citizens concerned. Moreover, we are faced with a law of urgent necessity, since, according to the calculations of the Banco de España, the return of certain ground clauses can affect about one and a half million people who, if this channel is not established, could have doubled the civil disputes that exist in Spain by collapsing justice in our country. In any case, the consumer, as it could not otherwise be, still has an intact right to effective judicial protection before national courts. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now give you details of the content of this royal Decree-Law. The main objective of this rule is to establish an alternative complaint mechanism to the filing of legal claims. It is voluntary for the consumer concerned, but mandatory for credit institutions, which must set it up within a maximum of one month. In addition, banks must ensure that this system is known to all consumers who have ground clauses in their contracts. The procedure we have articulated is as follows. The consumer may address a claim to his credit institution which, once received, must forward to the consumer the calculation of the amount to be returned, including necessarily the corresponding amounts for interest. In the event that the institution considers that the return is not appropriate, it will have to state the reason for its decision. Once the communication has been received, the consumer must state whether he or she agrees with the calculation. If this is the case, the entity will return the cash. The period of time established for the whole process is up to three months since the consumer makes the claim to the bank. Alternatively, the consumer and the entity may agree on compensatory measures other than cash repayment, such as the novation of mortgage conditions. In this case, the customer's acceptance will be of his hand and letter, having been duly informed of the economic value of the alternative measure. As I have already mentioned, the mechanism is voluntary for the consumer, who can of course decide to go to court directly. However, once the proceedings have been initiated and until such time as they have been resolved, the parties may not pursue any alternative judicial or extrajudicial action against each other in relation to the same claim. It also provides for the possibility that, in judicial proceedings already under way at the time of the entry into force of this rule, parties may, by mutual agreement, request the suspension of the proceedings in order to submit themselves to the previous complaint. Ladies and gentlemen, I reiterate that one of the objectives of this rule is that it has the minimum possible cost to the consumer. The extrajudicial complaint procedure is therefore free of charge. In addition, there is a substantial reduction in notarial and registrar tariffs resulting from contract novations that may result from the adoption of compensatory measures other than the return of cash. Similarly, in the event that a judicial process is finally reached, this rule also regulates judicial costs to encourage agreements between the consumer and the entity and is resolved in the most appropriate and bona fide manner. On the one hand, if the consumer sues the entity and, after rejecting the amount to be returned, the judgment he obtains is more economically favourable to him, the entity will be convicted on costs. On the other hand, if the consumer goes to court directly without using the previous claim and the credit institution is fully cleared before the procedure for replying to the claim, the entity will not be convicted on costs. This Royal Decree-Law also introduces a reform of the income tax so that in the case of repayment of amounts unduly collected by ground clauses, tax neutrality for the consumer is guaranteed, a neutrality that extends to any agreement concluded with financial institutions, whether in application of this rule or not, as well as in the case of enforcement of judgments or arbitral awards. In this regard, cash repayments, including compensatory interest or agreed compensatory measures, will not be integrated into the IRPF base. Where the consumer has deducted these amounts in previous financial years, regularisation shall be without penalty, interest on delay or charges of any kind. Finally, the rule we validate today empowers the Government to regulate the establishment of a body to monitor, monitor and evaluate complaints made. In any event, consumers and lawyers will be present and will be required to issue a six-monthly report. Its role is to ensure that entities comply with their reporting obligations, especially with regard to vulnerable individuals and groups. This monitoring body may propose the measures it considers necessary to promote the correct implementation of the extra-judicial mechanism provided for in the Royal Decree-Law. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. Today we validate a rule that aims to give an effective response to consumers affected by certain soil clauses that were not marketed with adequate transparency. As I have said on many occasions, in the even more important financial system than capital is transparency itself. That was one of the principles that led to the reform of the financial system that we committed, thanks to which today the Spanish entities can deal with this situation without generating any kind of uncertainty, something totally unthinkable just a few years ago. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said on other occasions, if this transparency measure that we adopted in 2013 had had it before, we would have avoided many problems. In any case, I would like to point out that almost 80% of Spanish families have a home on their own, about ten points above the European average. So, I think we have a system that works, but that, like everything else, we can perfect. In this regard, and as I have already made progress in attending the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs this morning, the Government is preparing the adoption of a law on real estate credit to transpose European legislation. It will promote pre-contractual information with particular reference to particularly sensitive clauses and elements in order to avoid repetition of errors in the future. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the contributions made by the various groups that have enabled us to substantially improve the text and reach a broad consensus. I think it is essential that this decree-law should be validated as such, since opening up the possibility of modifications would have introduced delays and large doses of uncertainty, and ultimately would have harmed consumers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I request your support for the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u64	Thank you very much. He has requested the use of the turn against the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. On behalf of that group, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u65	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I know that you must know them perfectly, but in case I may, let me read you two points in Article 51 of the Spanish Constitution. It says this article, in its point 1: 'The public authorities will ensure the protection of consumers and users, by protecting - I stress this - through effective procedures, safety, health and the legitimate economic interests of them'. And in point 2: 'The public authorities shall promote the information and education of consumers and users, shall encourage their organisations and shall hear them in matters which may affect them, in the terms in which the law establishes'. [[The Lord]] Mr Minister, with all due respect, what part of these two points of this article did you not understand when you decided that the best way to implement the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 21 December was this Royal Decree on urgent consumer protection measures in the field of soil clauses? And I ask because we find it very striking that in all the royal decree it is not alluded at any time to this article of the Spanish Constitution, when precisely should be the article that was the north in the drafting of it. Well, no. Not even the slightest mention. Amazing, isn't it? I am sure that you will reply that you fully understand the article, that this resolution mechanism that has been invented is perfectly in line with the letter of it. If that were the answer, what would also be surprising is that most consumer associations, those which, according to article 51, paragraph 2, of the Spanish Constitution, should have been heard, were opposed to this royal decree and this mechanism. They have been positioned against the OCU, Ceaccu, UCA-UCE, Facua or Adicae, but also trade unions, such as the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, the former judicial secretaries, who have made public their deep discrepancy - intercomilado - regarding the decree for not complying with the minimum guarantees. You have the strange honour of getting most consumer associations to think that this royal decree is pure smoke and that this government continues to legislate at the stroke of royal decrees in favour of the banking system and against citizens, specifically those affected by the real estate scam that has occurred in this country. As in this country getting unanimity from almost everyone is an increasingly complicated thing, I congratulate you. It has managed to bring this unanimity into the hands of its governing partners, citizens and the Socialist Party, a support that we will talk about later. In addition, you have managed to get all consumer associations to warn the people concerned not to take any steps without consulting a specialist in the field, because any false move can harm them. Instead of being concerned to ensure that the process was transparent and free of charge and to establish coercive measures that would force the banking system to return the amount collected improperly as a result of the application of the ground clauses, you have granted an extension in violation of the seams of our rule of law to the extreme, as I will explain later. Therefore, I would like to tell you that the vote of our parliamentary group on the validation of this royal decree is going to be against it, but not out of whim, but because it has been carried out behind the back of the citizens, again giving priority to the interests of the banking system over those affected by its bad practices and by a number of concrete elements of this royal decree that I will go on to detail. Moreover, we will ask that the vote on this bill be treated as a bill, in order to try to give voice to those demands of the consumer associations that you have rejected. Otherwise, if it is not approved, we will work with them to present a proposal for a law that adequately regulates this matter, because we believe that this royal decree does not do so. We are going to vote against it for a number of reasons. First, the royal decree reimposes asymmetry between consumers and the banking system in the relationship between the two. While for the consumer the mere request to the bank has consequences from January 21, for the bank has none. Faced with this asymmetry, both in the power of negotiation and information by the banking system, the Government does not articulate any supervisory and arbitration mechanism to ensure that what is offered by the bank to the conniving consumer in order to try to close an agreement is in fact in line with what is legally his. So much so that it could happen that the bank could again scam the customer and absolutely nothing would happen, because, after a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union against you, you again allow the bank to decide who, when and how much it charges for fraudulent use, for the use and abuse of null and void clauses. While consumer associations demand transparency and independence with regard to the fixing of quantities, you once again allow banking to become a judge and a party, and you reject your responsibility as guarantor and ultimately responsible for the interests of consumers. Minister, any return mechanism established in the public sphere must be kept in the public sphere as a guarantee of consumer rights. As this does not happen within the framework of this royal decree, we have to oppose it. Secondly, the Royal Decree does not include any coercive mechanism for banks to inform consumers that they have the ground clause that it is null and void and not the amount they would be charged. Moreover, there are already entities, Caixabank or the Bank Sabadell, who have declared themselves in rebellion and who have said that none of their clauses - none of them - is null and that, therefore, this royal decree understand that it is not applicable and they do not intend to benefit from it, which becomes, for this particular case and for these clauses soil, wet paper. It would be very interesting to know what you, Minister, intend to do in the face of that statement of rebellion by the banking system. Look where we've come from. You have created such a lax mechanism, you have been so pusillanimous in the proposal that, instead of regulating or effectively preventing the issue from being brought to justice, in the case of these banks and the consumers concerned they are going to be brought to justice by further saturating our courts. Let's see how they now prevent the courts from collapsing, the citizens from feeling helpless again by a government that says it watches over the general interest and that, however, it shakes its hand when it had all the elements in favor of having cleaned up its own image. Let no one forget, Minister - and you know it perfectly well - that it was your ministry and your Government that stood against the total retroactivity of the effects of the nullity of the ground clauses, presenting a report and appearing before the Court of Justice of the European Union. You relied on the shameful 2013 Supreme Court ruling, which established that curious doctrine that the retroactive effects of the nullity of a clause were as far as you wanted them to go. On that day, all the institutions of civil law since the time of Ulpiano had stumbled, and they had to come from Luxembourg to remind us that the nullity of the null and void clauses came from the moment that the clause was signed. And, instead of trying to give a way out that would give you and your government a minimum of credibility, you're back on the side of the bank. The curious thing is that it has had to be a bank, precisely a bank, minister - a bank that I remind you, as I said in my last speech, that we want it to remain public -, Bankia, which sends the signal that if the banking system wants to wash its reputation, what it has to do is to return all the money swindled in an agile and immediate way. They save on processing costs and legal claims; we get rid of the courts occupied with these matters; and it seems, it just seems, or it seems to me, that Bankia is more concerned about the general interest and the general reputation than her ministry. Therefore, on this issue, we will not be able to vote in favour either. Thirdly, I think you should make it much clearer what you have actually adopted with this royal decree, because it does not create any out-of-court conflict resolution system or supervisory mechanism to make the European Court of Justice ruling really effective. You have created - and I make mine the words of the Professor of Civil Law, Veronica del Carpio - an unprecedented and anomalous out-of-court system, without legislative procedure and with judicial consequences imposed on the parties. They have created an out-of-court mechanism that is not automatic, leaving out of it natural persons who are not consumers, such as the self-employed or SMEs themselves. None of the two collectives appear in this royal decree. What happens, Minister, that the mortgages signed by the self-employed or SMEs are exempt from the possibility of nullity of the ground clauses? What happens, Mr Rivera - who is not in the room - that your defense of the self-employed arrives until the moment they meet the bank opposite? Consumers were fooled by banking and the self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises, weren't they? Explain it to us, because we haven't finished understanding it. Moreover, to submit to this procedure is not worth the previous complaints that citizens have been able to make, but they have to start the procedure again; we have to start again. The Royal Decree also sets out the cost system to which all legal claims will be subject from 21 January, and once the consumer voluntarily enters this extra-judicial mechanism, the bank can do something to return the money, or not. It doesn't matter exactly what it does or doesn't, because ultimately it's all going to depend on the bank's decision. Moreover, once the consumer enters the process, he will not be able to claim judicially until three months after the start of the claim. I believe that this is a new set of arguments that prevent us from voting in favour. But it does not end here - we continue -: the royal decree suspends the constitutional right to effective judicial protection for the consumer, so that if the consumer decides to take advantage of this mechanism, as he said a moment ago, even if the bank does not answer him, he will not be able to claim before the courts until three months later. So one writes a communication to the bank saying, "Listen, please, if it's not too much trouble, will you give me back the money that I've been robbed?" And if the bank does not respond at the time or does not respond positively, it is not possible to go to the courts to ask for such effective judicial protection. Look at the paradox, the strong part of the contract, the bank, gets a moratorium on payment, can delay payment up to three months, and the weak part of the contract, the consumer, is imposed materially and temporarily the impossibility to claim judicially. This would have been good to apply when so many launching processes and foreclosures were taking place in this country - and as they continue to do so -. Frankly, Minister, don't you think their hand is gone again by legislating in favor of the bank? Do you not think that, if there is already a bank that assumes that what needs to be done is to pay and apologize, what you are doing is protecting the rest of the banking system and allowing even some banks to declare themselves in rebellion and tell them directly to the face that this does not go with them? Do you really believe that at this point someone in this country can think that banking still deserves a favor like the one you are granting them with this royal decree? Look at the CIS and you will know - I know you know - what the Spaniards of their banks think and please try to act accordingly. Finally, and as the cartoons said: Don't leave because there's still more. Although you claim that this royal decree implements a voluntary out-of-court mechanism for the consumer, however, if the consumer does not follow it, it modifies the entire system of procedural costs in place for the rest of debt cases. Even consumer arbitration, which is voluntary, lacks any kind of consequences on the consumer, is a choice that the consumer makes or does not make. However, at the moment when the consumer enters it, the process is affected by the coastal procedures that you have regulated perfectly and millimeterly in Article 4 of the Royal Decree, which I encourage you to look at if you have not studied it carefully. I'm finishing up, Madam President. Not only do banks have favourable tax treatment with respect to procedural costs, but now this royal decree directly allows them to avoid them and, more importantly, encourages the fact that consumer complaints are being prosecuted. So, no, Minister, under these conditions our parliamentary group cannot vote positively on this royal decree. But don't worry, because this royal decree is gonna come out of here validated. I'm done, Madam President. In a few minutes, the spokesman of the Socialist Group will rise to the rostrum, make such a hard speech, or even more, against this royal decree that I have made; he will tell you that this cannot be, that it is impossible, that it is the end of the world, it will appear that it opposes it. And oh, surprise!, when the time comes they will abstain to allow their validation.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u66	Mr. Montero, you have to finish up.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u67	I'm done, Mr. President. I didn't know it was you and I was appealing to the Madam President. [[Laughter]] Once again you will play that you are the opposition in the speeches and become the great coalition at the time of the vote. Do you know what the difference is between them and us, Minister? That when we say no, it is that no; we argue, defend and vote accordingly. And when they say no, they argue it, they defend it, and when the time comes for the vote they say: well, okay, well, I abstain. That's the difference, take it into account in the future. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Montero. The parliamentary groups then take part in the setting of positions. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Forum was the first party to include in 2011 in its electoral programme - long before the European Parliament and the European Court - the amendment of the Mortgage Law, in force since 1946, so that, in case of mortgage on habitual housing, a principle of universal responsibility is altered, with this only falling on mortgaged assets, in order to alleviate the difficulties arising from the crisis. On the basis of the judgment of the European Court of Justice, the succession of judicial mandates in relation to the ground clauses required urgent measures to protect consumers, and we also call for the diligent enforcement of judgments without legal delay or procedural tricks. With special decree-law the Government fulfils the obligation to ensure that those banking entities that have sold mortgages with ground terms, actively return them because, among other things, as the judges have pointed out, they are abusive, lack of transparency and the consumer is not adequately informed. They are illegal, ultimately, and therefore null. We are dealing with a crucial issue because it adds to other recent scandals in a sector that has received large public aid in six years around EUR 61.5 billion. In this case, it is not only the rapid return to the affected of the approximately €4 billion that the Banco de España has estimated as the impact of the ground clauses, it is also the present and future credibility of the financial institutions and companies and, of course, that of the politicians who must ensure compliance with the law. This set of measures is a whole guide of good practice, which must serve as a guide for the avalanche of affected consumers to be returned through agile procedures their money unduly collected and with the corresponding interests. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u70	For the Joint Group, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm to you that the Navarro People's Union will vote yes to the validation that this Royal Decree-Law 1/2017, although we have some doubts as to whether the mechanism is absolutely improveable in terms of providing guarantees and legal certainty to users. I will make two reflections before I finish my very brief speech. I have not yet heard any spokesman - and I hope that those who later have the floor will - break a spear in favour of the professionals of financial institutions and credit institutions - deputy directors, directors, advisers, managers, interveners - who do a magnificent advisory work, despite the commercial tensions and the monthly objectives they have in their offices. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, not all professionals have deceived or, rather, failed to ensure transparency, nor all users who are going to avail themselves of this royal decree-law today to restore the amounts associated with these clauses, in quotes, abusive did not know this lack of transparency. I insist, we shall vote in favour, Minister. It seems to us right that this tax exemption is legally included in the IRPF for these people - something that the Navarro People's Union has also requested in the Navarra Foral Parliament - so that the Navarro People's Union will take that proposal to its community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. For the Joint Group, I have the floor, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u73	Pick it up on. Fortunately, the Court of Justice of the European Union established in its December judgment that a clause was void: limits on its effects cannot be set and must be regarded as never having existed. Once again, it has had to be Europe that fails in favour of consumers, putting limits on continued action by the Spanish authorities in favour of banking. And it is that there is nothing more to read than the conclusions of the state attorney mentioned above, and his intervention against the interests of consumers, in the case before us, to check once again that the government always acts in favour of banking. Fortunately, Europe has invalidated interpretations such as those made by the Spanish authorities seeking to limit the rights of mortgages in the payment of fraudulently collected amounts. As in all that has to do with the bank's performance on mortgage issues, the government is taking steps in favour of consumers who are forced, late and reluctant when there is no other remedy. But it is also seeking to put in place mechanisms to help the bank meet its responsibilities, when what the institutions should do is to cancel the ground clauses and return the money charged by them. The Government, far from establishing this obligation, gives an extension of four months, leaves it up to the entities to decide who has the right to collect the calculation of the amounts, the possibility of making a proposal and, if the proposal is not accepted by the client, it is the latter, once again, who has to resort to the courts to defend themselves, since those who should do so, that is, the Government, have no interest in doing so. It is, therefore, this decree, even if they try to make it an attractive envelope, the last favor the government does to the bank and, of course, will not count on the support of Euskal Herria Bildu. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u74	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Candela Serna.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u75	Thank you very much, President. I send a greeting to the president of Adicae. Mr De Guindos, having read this royal decree on ground clauses, all I have left to ask myself is what board of directors you will end up on when you end up being a minister, because where you come from we already know. The truth is that we already knew that you are masters of looting public money, but we did not know that you are also masters of private money, of looting money from scams by ground terms. Really, you guys do it very but very well. Anyway, let me not go into this royal decree in detail because in two minutes you will understand that it is difficult, but I will give you a very concrete example. With this royal decree in hand the entities will not have to communicate to all those affected who can claim their money from the ground clauses. Putting a notice in the offices or on some website is enough. Do you think this is serious? Thousands and thousands of citizens have been scammed with an illegal clause and you are giving the bank the chance that the scammers will not know that they can return it and, if they find out, the valuation will come only from the bank. But there's more. Yesterday we learned that Bankia and Mare Nostrum were going to return the entire clauses to the cheated customers, communicating directly to them one by one their decision to - I quote literally - save themselves long court proceedings. One gets the alarms: two banks that go beyond the royal decree to avoid judicial proceedings. Something's wrong. What happens is that you are two state-owned banks and you want to leave them clean to your little friends every time you privatize them. I'm done with two things, Minister. This is a useless, ineffective and unsatisfactory tool, one more farce. Allow me to address Member Belén Hoyo, because we must have very little shame to accuse the forces of the change of entufismo and clientelismo when you stole the money of international cooperation in Valencia. [[Mr. Candela Serna finishes his intervention in Valencian.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u77	Thank you, President. Minister, very briefly, simply to tell you that our political formation is going to vote against because we understand that this is a very modest step forward. Charge the initiative to the consumer. We understand that at this point in the film the initiative should have it, as some financial institution has had, by the financial institutions themselves. We have many doubts as to how the question of coasts is regulated. It is also an improvementable element, like someone else. If in the end they had agreed to be treated as a bill and we could have tabled amendments, perhaps we would have abstained constructively, but this is not going to be the case. To you, Minister, to the entire absent government, but above all to the People's Group, I must congratulate you because you are the protagonists of the paradox of the XII Legislature. Do you know what that paradox of the XII Legislature is? [[Rumors]] That you are surely, since the recovery of democracy, the government with the least parliamentary support in its parliamentary group, one hundred and thirty-four Members; instead, your parliamentary partners - I no longer say government -, Citizens and the Socialist Party, are allowing you to legislate on the basis of royal decree-law. This is the paradox. The Government with the most minority governs on the basis of royal decree-law. Let us look again, do you know how many legislative initiatives you have adopted since you were the new government? I remind you: eight. Do you know how many have been passed by royal decree-law? I remind you: eight. Do you know how many of these have not been processed as a bill? Eight. That must be thanked to your partner, Citizens, and to your passive partner, the Socialist Party, because even, as on this occasion, by not voting in favour of the royal decree-law they will allow it not to be treated as a legislative initiative in this House to present the corresponding amendments. In any case, someone complained in the previous legislature that an absolute majority government was abusing the royal decree-law and now I must tell you that they are not only abusing, but at the moment only enacting legislative initiatives by royal decree-law. That should be thanked to its parliamentary partners, citizens and the Socialist Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u79	Pick it up on. Since the outbreak of the crisis, the financial system has been at the centre of the economic debate. If there is a sector in the economy with the deteriorated image is banking and it is not surprising, among other things, the cost of recapitalisation of banking, millionaire losses, mismanagement, judgments on unfair terms. Although I also have to say that not all the banking has had the same behavior. Kutxabank, which is not among the boxes involved, is an example that business can be done differently. It is in this sector that we once again find that the courts, the Supreme and European courts, consider that the ground clauses do not exceed the control and material transparency required in the clauses of contracts concluded with consumers. We understand that this decree seeks to channel a situation that affects a key institution in the economy and in our society, such as the granting of credit, and that the extra-judicial solution developed in it is not mandatory and therefore the right to appeal to the courts persists. We must not forget that credit institutions are companies and as such their main business is to combine credit transactions with assets and liabilities to obtain profits, although such transactions must be done with a secure regulatory framework that protects the consumer. The ground clauses are not abusive because they establish high interest, but because they did not comply with an obligatory transparency check. The decree that is presented today for validation seeks to offer a simple, quick and free exit to those affected by these clauses, which we value positively. [[Rumors]] However, we also understand that it leaves some issues in the air.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u80	Your Honor, just a moment. I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u81	The rule does not specify how to proceed in cases of pre-trial proceedings or covenants. The bank has no obligation to contact each client individually with a floor clause and, if the claim is received, the credit institution will have to calculate the amount to be returned, the amount to be broken down and to include the amounts corresponding to interest, and we are not clear - the decree does not regulate it either - what interest rate will be used. Nevertheless, and since it is an out-of-court mechanism with the aim of avoiding judicial saturation and understanding that the banks, in the face of the possibility of a near-safe defeat in the courts, will prefer to make a good offer to those affected and not risk going to a trial in which they would end up paying compensation and costs, and that for individuals this possibility also has interesting aspects as soon as the financial entity's offer is minimally attractive, it is normal for customers to accept it because they save the trial, they will be charged before and they will not risk losing the case before the courts. With all these reservations and nuances expressed, our group is going to abstain in this validation of the royal decree-law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u83	Good afternoon, President. If you will allow me, Minister, today I will start at the end and it is precisely yesterday that the President of Bankia made you a spoiler as we had not seen before. It turns out that Bankia has left all of you - the People's Party, the Citizens, the Socialist Party and those parties that will support the validation of this royal decree - in addition to the rest of the banking system, out of play by highlighting the entities that have been involved in continuing to charge the ground clause and not recognizing that it is a null clause. Precisely they have not placed conditions or limitations on return, which implies the full restitution of the amounts plus interest, as well as the sending of a communication to all the affected customers to inform them of the opening of the extra-judicial process. For this reason, some organizations, including Adicae, consumer organizations, already propose that you extend to all financial institutions the announced return of the ground clauses, that is, they are telling them to allow this royal decree to be processed as a bill so that an additional one can be incorporated in this regard. It turns out that it was not so difficult to regulate an out-of-court mechanism for the return of amounts unduly collected by entities. Minister, we encourage you to do so, pass this royal decree as a bill. If you can do it Bankia, why can't the rest of the banking entities, of the banks, which are theoretically in a better position than Bankia? You have reached an agreement that is now, as we see, insufficient, because it favours the banks again and leaves thousands of citizens at the stand. I start by telling them to rectify, that we're still in time. The existence of this royal decree and, therefore, its validation today here, causes the need to ensure that banking entities comply with a judgment of the European Court of Justice which amended the plan to the Supreme Court - it is good to recall and say - because it said that a clause was null and void from the moment of the judgment and not from the very moment when that clause was placed in a contract. In short, by doing what we are doing here today, you will allow me to tell you to bend back to the powerful, to the financial institutions. And it is that today they have lost, or we will all lose, a golden opportunity to prove ourselves, to prove themselves, sensitive to the citizenry. You had a possibility and you did not want to, you could establish the obligation of an extra-judicial procedure - to define it - a sanctioning procedure for those who do not comply and have preferred not to do so, since you are complacent. Esquerra Republicana submitted a non-legislative proposal on 22 December, which established the need to regulate a procedure that was a rapid, universal, collective and effective mechanism to ensure consumer protection, avoiding the burden of the process on the citizens or customers concerned, requiring that each of the affected customers be informed of their rights, i.e. that there was an obligation on the banking institution; that there was supervision of consumer associations and users of the return process; that monitoring mechanisms were established and, where appropriate, a sanctioning procedure for those entities that failed to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And as a result, they leave us with a procedure that creates quite doubts and can cause legal uncertainty. You often invoke legal uncertainty and then, when it comes to the truth, whether or not law is made does not mean that such legal certainty is guaranteed. There are more than reasonable doubts about the goodness of this royal decree and, therefore, of the procedure regulated in it. For example, there are more than reasonable doubts as to how the bank will report this out-of-court way to resolve the claims. The decree-law says that it is necessary to inform - I repeat - that it is necessary to inform, not that it is mandatory to do so personally. So how should we understand that the banking entity has complied, hanging a simple sign in the banking office or hanging a banner on the website of that banking entity? I insist, there is no obligation for the bank to address each of its customers and, therefore, there will be those who do so and there will be those who do not. How will the lawsuits be avoided? Will they put an end to the litigation? Will all the banks comply? There are banks that refuse to admit that their ground clauses were not legal, for example, the Bank of Sabadell. Does the arbitrariness answer everything? What about the judgments which have become final before the judgment of the European Court of Justice? They're judgmental, they're reviewable? The proposed route is similar to the case of the preferred ones, does the minister, the ministry, have estimates on the ratio of mortgages with floor clause? What about the cancelled mortgages and those in which the banks reached an agreement with the mortgage debtor? What happens to early maturity? In fact, as a conclusion we can only think that they have not taken into account at all the same consumer organisations when, for example, they defined, indicated, they suggested which fundamental elements should be considered in an effective and fair mechanism for mortgage consumers. Some said: banks' obligation to inform all consumers, the universal nature of the solution for all consumers, and the widespread submission of entities to the system. This out-of-court system should not address the transparent or non-transparent nature of ground clauses. I repeat, this out-of-court system should not address the transparency or non-transparent nature of the ground clauses, as this issue is settled by the judgment of the European Court of Justice. There are already banking entities now questioning whether their clauses are likely to be applied to them. In the end, you see, your card castle has collapsed with a single blow from Bankia's president, a lesson for all of you. It is clear that, in the end, we could, but they did not want to. We will vote no to the validation of the royal decree. [[Applauds]] Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me tell you that some of the things I am hearing here are crying out to heaven. [[Rumors]] There are people who look at the bulls from the barrier, people who have not wanted or have not known - I think they have not wanted - to negotiate, that they are not aware that there are millions of people who have to be restored a right and that they must do so so that the civil court order does not collapse and that they prefer to turn into demagogy for reasons that do not even deserve the qualification of politicians. In any case, they deserve it very much because we are dealing with a very serious matter that can finally be resolved. The matter is very serious because it constitutes massive, harmful and prolonged abuse over millions of people over time. This rule corrects this, it is true that after all kinds of resistance and errors in the legal approach, it must finally be European justice that pushes us to this solution, which confirms that, again, everything that comes from Europe to Spain is good for you, and in this case it is unquestionable. [[Applauds]] What are we talking about? We are talking about loan or credit contracts that are guaranteed with real estate mortgages that have a variable type that is put a top down in its variability. This seems normal to financial institutions - although many others do not - that beyond any other discussion today we know that it is null, null, that is, today it is null, - no matter what we discuss, those clauses have never existed - forces us, pushes us, impels us to restore in their rights those affected so that they remain in the same situation in which they would be if all that had not happened. [[Rumors]] From there, what is at stake is to establish the measures that allow such restitution and to do so through a simple, predictable, voluntary channel for the consumer, compulsory for the entities and - I repeat - above all, trying to avoid an increase in the litigation that would be fatal to our system. And of that, out of pure political and citizen responsibility, we had to participate, we had to negotiate it, we had to try to make it work in the best possible way, in the fastest, fastest way and to allow cash to be collected, if that is the wish of the affected, and that is why we have entered into the negotiation. Therefore, these labels that I have heard about those that we have participated in and that we have achieved things, I do not accept them and give them back a couple. To those who only know how to qualify this I tell them that they are foolish and irresponsible. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Citizens presented - because we are concerned about this since we arrived at Congress - an initiative that in its day urged the Government to take three measures. Firstly, to recognize it and also to recognize the social importance of the problem; secondly, we urged the Government to defend the rights of those affected by unfair clauses as soon as court proceedings were heard at national and European level and, secondly, to facilitate extra-judicial mechanisms, which has finally been the solution. That is precisely - I repeat - the mechanism that now establishes the royal decree that the Government is coming to validate. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u86	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Wait a minute. I beg your silence, please, ladies and gentlemen. I beg your silence. We must listen to the speaker, who is exclusively the speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u87	Finally, at that time we also urged the Government to initiate the urgent steps necessary for the Spanish legislative amendment, a modification that effectively guaranteed the rights of consumers and users. This GNP was approved in the Committee on Justice on 20 December 2016, just one day before the European Court of Justice published the long-awaited judgment that brought us here. I must say that this was provided for by us and agreed with the People's Group, constituting clause 15 of our investment pact, which agreed on the creation of an independent consumer protection authority and a financial investor. This independent authority would come to unify and strengthen the claims and protection services of the three financial supervisors - banking, securities and insurance - to regain the confidence of savers and users, and to establish - this is very important and I repeat that was planned, which is foreseen as it is in force in our agreement with the People's Group - standard financial services contracts for retailers that avoid fraud and end the deception of the small letter. Well, even though all this I have just explained may seem obvious and peaceful, at first the actual decree initially agreed by the People's Party and the Socialist Party did not contemplate any of the most elementary conditions at these extremes. In fact, at first the royal decree provided that the bank could compensate its customers - I quote textually - with compensatory measures other than the return of cash. On the other hand, there was a general obligation for banks to communicate to customers, but it was not clear what procedure should be used to carry out that communication. That royal decree therefore being prepared was better in its drafting, and if it had remained so we would not be validating it. However, we have been able to negotiate five fundamental conditions that make us vote in favour of their validation, which I would like to recall. First, the royal decree is empowering for consumers and mandatory for credit institutions. Secondly, banks are obliged to provide prior information to all clients whose loans contain or have contained a floor clause. Third, the free procedure is guaranteed and the possibility to go to any branch - I repeat, to any branch - of the entity to request it. This point is very important, because it is in the branch and with the delegate of the same with whom the citizen on foot - who does not have to know anything about the financial entresijos or small letters - signature, and it has to be in the same place where he sees his rights restored and, if it can be, ask the same person for explanations. Fourth, the charge must always be in cash, including interest, without additional tax costs, all of which must be supervised by an organ representing lawyers and consumer associations. And the fifth condition, which has been accepted, is that it is provided for the possibility of bringing legal proceedings without any penalty as far as costs are concerned. It is therefore thanks to what my group has provided in the negotiation that the content of the royal decree effectively protects the right to effective judicial protection of citizens, provides for a rapid and free mechanism for all consumers, resolves any possibility of further abuses in this regard, relieves a workload to the judicial system - which would surely have been unbearable and would have collapsed - and justifies my view of the validation of this decree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Girauta. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Robles Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not going to let us at the end - as some have done - indicate its position. It is going to be a very clear position, that of abstaining at this time of validation, and it is going to abstain for a number of reasons that we are going to explain. The first thing I want to say to the Minister is that the triumphalist air with which he has arrived here is not acceptable. We can't accept it under any circumstances. You have been forced by a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union to solve a problem that had created more than 1,950,000 families. It has been said here that the Spanish Supreme Court was short. Yes, it had been short, but it was Spanish judges who raised a preliminary question which allowed the Court of Justice of the European Union to give a ruling. You, gentlemen of the Government, have been forced to give a solution, but let me tell you that the proposals you initially made were all in favour of banking, in order to protect the bank's rights exclusively. You passed us a text with a code of good practice and a protocol of action according to which the bank could simply do what it wanted. From the Socialist Group, as you know, he was told that under no circumstances were we going to go through those procedures that left absolutely any decision in the hands of the bank. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has a sense of responsibility and a sense of reality, and we are not going to accept any other group that gives us consumer protection elections. Long before you were created, many of us in the Socialist Parliamentary Group have been working for years on consumer protection. And if we have made that contribution to this out-of-court claim, we have done it from that sense of responsibility. We could not leave 1,950,000 families at the dawn of what happened in a judicial system to which I shall now refer. Mr Minister, I cannot accept your complacency, because it must be said clearly that we have a mortgage system which should at least produce legal blush. What can we say when the Spanish courts and the European courts declare null and void the ground clauses, the early maturity clauses and now the obligation imposed on the consumer to bear the costs of setting up the mortgage? You in the government have done nothing. Now they're telling us they're going to submit an amendment to the Mortgage Law, and I'm asking you, what are you waiting for? The directive is February 2014 and the deadline for incorporating that directive into the Spanish legal system was March 2016. What are you guys doing? It is important that we also say, because that is what everyone will understand, as you, gentlemen of the Government, have the Spanish judicial system. We have an absolutely collapsed justice in which they have not created a single-person court since 2014. The Minister of Justice was and has left, perhaps because he is somewhat ashamed of the situation in which justice is found. There are 1,970,000 cases in civil jurisdiction. They don't think they're judged. We have absolutely collapsed justice and no means. Now it is very easy and easy for some to say that people go to court. What would the Socialist Parliamentary Group like most if the questions raised by the Spanish financial system and the mortgage system could be resolved with its passivity, with that smile at least legal! Since responsibility we could not accept that the claims of those who have a legitimate right to be returned to them that which was unduly created in the bank with the ground clauses did not have an agile and effective response, and not only are the ground clauses, we have the early maturity clauses, on which the Court of the European Union has again said that they are abusive. As I said before also the expenses you were forcing, allowing the mortgage system to fall into the hands of consumers. This is important for the public to know, because here Parliament is going to be clear, it is going to be answered by assuming responsibilities, knowing reality, not making theoretical speeches. That more than a million and a half people who have a ground clause have to know that the Spanish courts - because you, the government, do not give them the means - are collapsed, that we do not know when they would have an answer to their claims, and that on the way some would want to do an extra business by charging the best of the interests of those people who were entitled to be returned those interests, because we all know that this decree-law that some of you say is so badly seen by consumers turns out that, perhaps, for those who are worst seen is for those who rubbed their hands thinking that they could possibly do a business with judicial claims. From the point of view of responsibility, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has to say to the citizens who have clauses on the ground that if they go to the courts they will be answered, but they will be given it within a year and a half or two years, and it turns out that the interests are best left to those who are assuming their defence. That is why we understand that this decree-law - and the out-of-court procedure it regulates - helps to solve this problem of consumers - and I say well, consumers - because here we have also wondered why it does not apply to everyone; simply because the judgments of the Spanish courts say that it applies exclusively to consumers. This decree-law, thanks to the support, thanks to the initiatives and thanks to the pressure of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has established an out-of-court procedure that is voluntary. [[Rumors]] This is very important; no one is forced to go to this procedure as a consumer,...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u90	Mrs. Robles, just a moment, please. I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u91	... but it's mandatory for banks. Therefore, anyone who seems so ill and understands that his constitutional rights are violated that he does not resort to this procedure. Now, this procedure is agile, it is free and it is voluntary, and in this way we will prevent others from doing certain business. Banks were said to avoid the responsibilities they had. No, the banks are not going to be able to avoid this, because the obligation to inform consumers is expressly stated. I tell you from that sense of responsibility that this decree-law and the out-of-court procedure give a very agile response with full protection of consumer rights. Now, we are going to abstain, because we have doubts about what the banks are going to do and what you are going to do as a government. [[The lady]] That is why I am already telling you that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to be absolutely demanding in controlling what the banking institutions are going to do, as it is going to be absolutely demanding in that monitoring committee that has to be set up now. Minister, do not think that by putting a regulatory clearance we will forget about that monitoring committee. We are going to demand that this monitoring committee follow up very closely on what the banks are doing. We will ask and demand that they take account, through appearances, of what the banks are doing and of the work of the supervisory committee. In the same way we will demand that once and for all the text of the Mortgage Law adapted to the 2014 directive be brought. All the associations of judges are in conformity with this decree, as is the Socialist Party in part. It is necessary, but it is absolutely insufficient. So don't be more complacent with the Spanish mortgage system, and bring once and for all the new Mortgage Law. It is absolutely essential that transparency is raised to a general level so that abusive clauses, ground clauses, early maturity clauses disappear. Do not doubt the consumers, who are the ones who exclusively import the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that we will do exhaustive control, in the same way that we will do exhaustive control of Law 1/2013, of the moratorium that has been granted to those people who are in a situation of special vulnerability and to those who have been suspended from evictions. So, we're going to abstain...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u92	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u93	... from responsibility, but the Socialist Group does not accept that anyone, that no group gives you lessons about the defence we do and that we are going to make of consumers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u94	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Palmer Tous.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group by thanking the Government, as well as the other parliamentary groups with which the Government has negotiated, for the important effort they have made to be able to solve a problem which was of great concern to many Spanish families, in particular 1.5 million people, according to data from the Bank of Spain. It was all these people who were affected by a situation characterized by the so-called ground clauses, i.e. clauses included in mortgage-guaranteed mortgage contracts at a variable rate, although that variable type had a low limit, had a floor. These clauses, already in 2013, following a Supreme Court ruling, were abusive because of their lack of transparency and information to the consumer, because of their asymmetry, when there is a ground clause but there is no ceiling clause, or because of their disproportionateness, if it is considered that although there is a ceiling clause, it is so far away that it is ultimately inoperative. Thus, the Supreme Court ruling declared the nullity of these opaque and disproportionate clauses, although it could not be applied retroactively, but only from the date of the judgment. Three years later, on 21 December, the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that the restitution of unfair ground terms should take place from the date of the signing of the mortgage contract, i.e. throughout the life of the mortgage. Following this last ruling, the Government decided, with good faith, to take over the anticipated increase in the number of complaints by the consumers concerned. From the result of the work done, from the effort that I believe we must recognize the Government and all those who have sat down to negotiate with the Government, comes this extra-judicial channel regulated in the decree-law that we bring to this House today. This decree-law, this out-of-court channel aims to resolve consumer complaints arising from the court rulings I have mentioned, and to do so in a quick, simple and free manner. [[Rumors]] Precisely in this need for speed in the solution, in this need for rapid response to the consumer is the reason why we are dealing with it through decree-law and not through draft law, as the minister has at some point commented, although it is worth remembering again, because it has been commented by several spokespersons. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u96	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u97	The Government, I must say, in an extraordinarily rapid and effective manner, has taken the decision to establish this extra-judicial procedure, and has done so with two essential objectives. First, help prevent the collapse of the courts. Let us think that judicializing one hundred per cent of the ground clauses, only one and a half million new lawsuits in court, would practically double civil litigation, and raise the average response time of first instance courts from about nine months to thirty-nine and peak. Secondly - and not less important, but quite the contrary - to promote the return of quantities unduly collected quickly - less than three months - in an effective and free way for the customer, thereby ensuring adequate consumer protection and complying with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In this respect, it is important to stress that it is the consumer who has the last word, since it is the consumer who decides. On the one hand, if you agree with the amount offered by the entity you can negotiate the method of return, either through cash or by negotiating another compensation system other than the refund of the amount unduly collected, such as a reduction in outstanding mortgage contributions. On the other hand, in the event that it disagrees with what the entity has offered, it can always, always, go to court to settle the differences, with which the final decision always - I repeat - is of the consumer, and it does not limit any of its initial rights, which I consider to be quite relevant, and some are committed to denying that aspect. In the case of legal proceedings, the Royal Decree is also an incentive for the financial institution to resolve and act in a correct and good faith. This is because it has been determined that the institution is liable for judicial costs, in the event that the judgment is more economically favourable than what was originally offered by the entity, or it does not have to bear those costs in the event that it is brought before the court. With regard to the tax treatment of the amounts received, I believe that the mechanism designed achieves the objective of fiscal neutrality, and I also believe that it is advantageous for the taxpayer. Thus, only in the case of a cash return and only in the case of the customer's deduction of the amounts collected by the bank in his IRPF declaration for any purpose, whether by deduction in house or by rental of property, the bank must regularize its tax situation and will do so without any charge. In any case, when you do, you will return amounts that were saved at the time in the payment of taxes, which at the time stopped paying, so fiscally your situation will be neutral. It should be noted that such regularization will obviously only have to be made for the unprescribed years; that is, the last four. Moreover, interest on late payments linked to the amounts returned by the bank is not subject to taxation, which is undoubtedly an advantage of the system in fiscal terms. In short, with the adoption of the decree-law that we are discussing today, the Government has sought to provide legal certainty to the complaint process, so that it can be carried out with all the guarantees for the consumer, while at the same time aiming to reduce the judicial burden and avoid judicial collapse, through the design of an extra-judicial mechanism that is quick, simple, agile and cost-free for the citizen, free and fiscally neutral; a citizen who also has at all times the capacity to decide on the procedure to be followed. On the other hand, it is a mandatory out-of-court mechanism for the bank - it has been repeated here quite often - and voluntary for the consumer. Therefore, I repeat, it is this one who has the last word on the procedure. It should also be noted, because I think it is very related to what we are dealing with now, that the Ministry of Economy - the minister has commented - is working on a new draft mortgage law. [[Rumors]] The purpose of this bill is to increase the transparency of any clause in a mortgage contract. The aim is to improve the functioning of the mortgage system so that financing to purchase a house continues to flow, as has historically been done in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u98	Quiet, please. I pray silently. One second, Your Honor. Quiet, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u99	The idea is to make banking customers clear from the very beginning all the features of the mortgage. All requirements will be laid down to ensure that this is the case, that the consumer knows all the aspects that may affect him. What is meant by this? Obviously, situations such as those we have experienced with the ground clauses will not occur again. In short, and finally, ladies and gentlemen, the need to establish a framework for a double judicial decision affecting 1.5 million Spaniards has been assumed by the People's Party Government, giving it a simple answer despite the complexity of the objective. They are, as I say, 1.5 million Spaniards, with 1.5 million mortgages and 1.5 million clauses. It was therefore not a simple objective. It was not possible, as I have heard here and some are defending, an automatic and widespread resolution after court rulings, because each case is particular and must be dealt with individually. I repeat, it was not easy, but the Government assumed the need to find a solution, and with this intention in mind the Government contacted, negotiated and agreed on a solution, which we are bringing today. This decree-law is therefore the result of dialogue, negotiation and agreement, a line of action that characterizes what the government of Mariano Rajoy claims to be the way to work in this legislature. Those who did not want to participate in this solution - because that is what it is, a solution - must reflect on what their motivation is. Consumer protection is a fundamental objective of this government's policy, and this has undoubtedly been reflected in this matter. While Mariano Rajoy's Executive is focused on solving the real problems of the Spaniards, others are in constant criticism and reproach or brought into their own internal conflicts, conflicts that in no way benefit society nor represent any contribution to the improvement of the lives of Spanish citizens. This government, that of the People's Party, is on it and we are demonstrating it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u100	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the voting, I would like to tell you that, as you know, this weekend our fellow Member has passed away during two legislatures and the first mayor of our democracy, Pilar del Pulgar. I think I gather everyone's feeling if I transfer your family members on behalf of the House our most sincere condolences, and we pay you from here our tribute in recognition of your career in Spanish politics. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u101	Let's start the voting. We vote, first of all, on Royal Decree-Law 6/2016 of 23 December 2016 on urgent measures to boost the National Youth Guarantee System. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 339 votes in favour, 243 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour, 245 votes against, 1 vote in favour, 93 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u102	The royal decree-law is validated. [[Applauds]] Because it has been requested that the Royal Decree-Law be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure, we proceed to its vote. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain silent if I do not have to stop the vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 plus 3 telematics votes, 341; 88 plus 1 telematics vote, 89; 242 plus 2 telematics votes, 244; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u103	It is rejected as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2016, OF 23 DECEMBER, RELATING TO THE FINANCIAL MECHANISM OF THE COST OF THE SOCIAL GOOD AND OTHER PROTECTION MEASURES TO VULNERABLE ELECTRIC ENERGY CONSUMER. [[File number 130/000006]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u104	We then proceed to vote on Royal Decree-Law 7/2016 of 23 December, which regulates the mechanism for financing the social bond and other measures to protect vulnerable consumers of electricity. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 3 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 245 plus 3 telematics votes, 248; against, 77; abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u105	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. It has been requested that this royal decree-law be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. We're going to vote for it. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 3 telematics votes, 342; 88 plus 1 telematics vote, 89; 246 plus 2 telematics votes, 248; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u106	It is therefore rejected as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 1/2017, OF 20 JANUARY, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES FOR CONSUMER PROTECTION IN THE FIELD OF CLAUSULES ONLY. [[File number 130/000007]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u107	We then proceed to vote on Royal Decree-Law 1/2017 of 20 January on urgent measures for the protection of consumers with regard to soil clauses. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 3 telematics votes, 342; 164 plus 2 telematics votes, 166; 88; abstentions, 87 plus 1 telematics vote, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u108	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The Royal Decree-Law has been requested to be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. We shall now proceed to your vote. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 3 telematics votes, 342; 88 plus 1 telematics vote, 89; 245 plus 1 telematics vote, 246; abstentions, 6 plus 1 telematics vote, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-01-31-CD170131.u109	Therefore, processing as a draft law by the urgency procedure is rejected. As an extraordinary meeting, the meeting rose. It was seven and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
