ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u1	The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of dona María del Carmen Álvarez-Arenas Cisneros, I ask dona Pilar Marcos Domínguez if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u2	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u3	Dona Pilar Marcos Domínguez has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u4	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of items 26 and 28, corresponding respectively to the urgent inquiry of the Joint Parliamentary Group, to account for the serious decisions that the Government is taking in the face of the legitimate and democratic right of Catalans to decide the political future of Catalonia, and to the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podem-En Marea, on the plans that the Government has to overcome the current crisis with Catalonia. [[Mr. Campuzano]] Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of reference points is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u5	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate to take account of the proposals for legislation. Firstly, the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on measures to protect vulnerable consumers of natural gas and other pipeline fuels. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u6	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic situation of the Spanish families is not for big laracas, it is not for big parties and it is not to consent to the boasting - as my colleague Rafael Simancas said last week - of the government when it talks about macroeconomic data. Nothing has improved for families with greater economic difficulties, but rather on the contrary. In the meantime, the Spanish Government rejects the cry of the eight million poor workers, of the unemployed who have stopped receiving benefits - only one in four has protection at the moment - and of pensioners who do not reach the end of the month. Income declines more for those families that have less resources and pensions are losing purchasing power at a trepidating pace, while the number of large fortunes increases. In addition to the situation of growing inequality, we find prices of energy supplies that have risen exponentially in recent years. According to data from the Association of Environmental Sciences' study on energy poverty, natural gas prices for an average household consumer increased by 67% between 2007 and 2014, i.e. from 5.75 cents per kilowatt hour to 9.59 cents. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the third country in the European Union that has the most expensive price of gas. This rise, together with the even higher price of electricity, means that, according to the study referred to, there are 11% of households that cannot be kept at an adequate temperature in winter, which means around 5,100 000 people directly affected by energy poverty. The Family Budget Survey also warns us that households with incomes below EUR 999 per month spend 42% of their income on supply costs, including housing, electricity, water and gas, while the rest of the families spend around 32% on these supplies. You will tell me how an average family, which is a family with two children, can survive worthily with a budget of less than 420 euros, not to mention those who do not even reach this figure. Ladies and gentlemen, on 13 July 2009, Directive 2009/73 was adopted... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u7	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u8	I'm going on. ... of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in natural gas. This Directive laid down in Article 3 the public service obligation for the protection of vulnerable customers. However, eight years later, the Government continues to dishearten it despite the growing inequality in this country and the enormous difficulties faced by hundreds of families. The household budget survey also shows that 20.1% of consumers are supplied by natural gas; the percentage is much lower than that of electricity, which is around 67.2%. But among these consumers, among the consumers of natural gas, there are many pensioners, many houses of official protection and many young families with children who simply have to stop turning on the heating because they cannot cope with the expense of maintaining it. To say that in Spain there is a need for policies to help families, that is to say an obvious thing, to say that policies to help families are the ones that contribute most to the health and well-being of children is another great obvious thing, and that is why the Socialists are convinced that the different sectoral policies, in this case energy policy, can make a significant contribution to eradicating situations of extreme inequality, and that is what we are doing here today. The proposal for a law on measures to protect vulnerable consumers of natural gas and other pipeline fuels covers an empty space in the protection of consumers who have the most difficulties and for the first time creates a social bonus for consumers of natural gas because they are also victims of price-disorbited rises. The rule we are presenting today provides that, as set out in Article 31.3 of the Spanish Constitution and Article 86 of the Treaty on European Union, this public service obligation is to be co-financed by natural gas companies. This bonus already exists in other countries of our environment, for example, in France, where there is a solidarity rate of gas with discounts ranging from 40 to 60 %. This bill that we are presenting today also includes an express ban on suspending the supply of gas to severely vulnerable consumers and extending the deadline to four months for those consumers identified as vulnerable. In short, it creates economic support for vulnerable families in order to be able to live with quality and security. From the Socialist Group we assume that in order to solve the problem of energy poverty we must provide comprehensive solutions, which is essential an in-depth modification of the Spanish energy system because it is an expensive, inefficient and poorly adapted system to the needs of families and businesses. We also believe that a determined policy of energy rehabilitation of buildings should be developed to support energy supply savings and, of course, to approve the income pact that we will discuss tomorrow to increase the purchasing power of families and thus prevent expenditure on basic supplies from placing an excessive specific burden on their economies. But, ladies and gentlemen, as long as this doesn't happen, we can't stand idly by. We are the main party of the opposition and, therefore, today we present this proposal, to create a social gas bonus, to which I hope that the rest of the groups will join in order to be able to be processed, debated and, if necessary, improved. As your ladies and gentlemen know, in December the Socialist Parliamentary Group managed to have the Government amend the Electricity Act to prohibit by law light cuts to very vulnerable families. In that spirit, and following in our quest to protect consumers who have the greatest difficulties, we present this proposal. But we must not fail to warn that the Spanish Government has committed itself to drawing up in three months the royal decree and the regulation for the development of the social bond, which establishes the profile of vulnerable consumers of different types and the procedure for the implementation of this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it has been ten months since the publication of the royal decree-law. Winter is approaching and it is not yet known when or how it will materialize. It is clear that the Government of the People's Party has other priorities, it has shown it on many occasions, but we, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, do not; we are very clear what our priorities are. That is why we are presenting this parliamentary initiative with the urgency to take action against energy poverty, and it is presented in September, so that it can be in force in winter. From here I again urge the parliamentary groups to approve their handling as a bill, so that we can resolve the problem of many families in time, and that we can also push for the definitive implementation of the electric social bond under the appropriate conditions. With this bill, we continue to take steps to ensure the right to basic citizenship needs, including, without doubt, the basic needs of the household. It is a great step forward towards a comprehensive policy to combat inequality, it is a great step forward so that, again, from the energy policy, the socialists will contribute to that fight against poverty. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u9	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This has an impact on the adoption of measures to protect vulnerable consumers in terms of natural gas and other pipeline fuels. The Forum vote will be favourable because it seems reasonable to provide legislative protection to families and people who are suffering from energy poverty as a result of not having sufficient economic income and who therefore have difficulties or are unable to access essential supplies, which has an impact on their quality of life and on their health. It should be recalled that in this XII Legislature, measures have already been taken to protect the vulnerable consumer of electricity through the Royal Decree-Law 7/2016, which was validated here in Congress earlier this year and which involved the creation of the social bonus that is now intended to extend to gas. Specific protection for vulnerable consumers is also one of the measures taken to provide protection mechanisms within the process of liberalisation and opening up the energy market that is being developed throughout the European Union and in which Spain has also put in place guarantees for social welfare. It should also be noted that in this area of vulnerable energy consumers, the Constitutional Court handed down a ruling to prevent the cutting of electricity and gas supplies to consumers who could not have paid the bills because they were in a serious situation of economic insecurity. They are all factors to be taken into account for a legislative amendment that addresses families and people who are suffering the consequences of the economic crisis. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u11	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Group, Mr Candela Serna has the floor. [[Pause]] Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u12	Thank you, President. Mrs Lucio, we think it is important to remember that in Catalonia we already legislated on energy poverty and that the Spanish state has resorted to the laws we passed in the Catalan Parliament. However, we are going to vote in favour of the consideration and, if so, we are going to table amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u14	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. The protection of vulnerable consumers in the field of gas is a manifestation of a broader phenomenon: energy poverty, which affects not only the supply of gas, but also electricity, butane, water and even the lack of income from households to meet those basic needs. My group agrees that we have a serious problem that extends across Europe, and that is that Europe is also concerned about energy poverty, hence the Community directives that are being established in this regard for the Member States, despite the fact that the lack of a methodology for a common study of energy poverty is making it difficult to adopt a common policy for the European Union as a whole. Today there is a proposal for a law for vulnerable consumers of gas. Several months ago it was the electric social bonus and in a few months, what's it going to be? I'm saying this because it looks like we're proposing regulations on the move. I do not want to say that there is no need to establish mechanisms for these situations, much less, but I believe that we must work towards a comprehensive solution, a system of solidarity protection that unites society as a whole and leaves no one behind. There has already been an attempt to reform the Hydrocarbons Act, which provided for the creation of a social gas bonus for the most vulnerable families, but the reason for the absence of a social gas bonus in our country is regulatory. Unlike electricity and water, which are essential for the survival of a home, gas is not considered as a basic service because it has other alternatives - such as butane, biomass or electricity - to heat a house, have hot water or cook. The complexity of energy poverty and its multiple dimensions therefore requires structural measures and a response from all relevant administrations in regulating and managing factors such as housing rehabilitation, energy efficiency, electricity supply prices and conditions, energy, gas and water. I know that there are parliamentary groups that do not like us to differentiate between whether we have jurisdiction or not, but that the absence of a regulatory framework to protect vulnerable consumers and a defined strategy in this regard has made some local administrations, such as the one in Euskadi, aware of these new situations and have put in place various measures to ensure the provision of these services to families in this situation. Thus, in Euskadi, we have a system of measures coordinated with the various institutional levels for social emergencies and to deal with situations arising from so-called energy poverty, which includes the costs of electricity supply, gas and other domestic fuels, and also through agreements with suppliers and traders, because they establish not only the coordination mechanisms necessary to prevent the suspension of electricity supply and gas for non-invoice of economically disadvantaged citizens, but there is also a commitment not to suspend this supply to vulnerable customers while the granting of the economic benefit is being managed. We are not waiting for these kinds of situations to materialise or for a directive to say in this respect; we are ahead of them as well as other autonomous communities because we have exclusive competence in social assistance, because we know this reality and we do not want to leave anyone behind. What we must do is to establish the conditions or means to generate employment, so that we can have a society that is supportive and not subsidized. The tendency must be to avoid having to deal with the obligation to establish such measures. As I said earlier, since the absence of a gas bond is regulatory and there is a committee of experts to analyse the scenarios of the energy transition, where energy efficiency will play an important role and the regulatory framework will be analysed, we understand that it is time to address these issues in a comprehensive and coordinated manner, with a dialogue between energy and social assistance policies, taking into account also that energy policy is a shared competence and that of social assistance is exclusive in some autonomous communities. It is in this balance that we will have to find, in order to arrive, as I said at the beginning of my speech, an integral solution and not to put patches. Since the autonomous communities and their municipalities, the institutions closest to the citizenry, already provide solutions to these kinds of situations, we think it appropriate to wait to address this problem in an integral way, taking into account, as I said, that possible scenarios of energy transition are being addressed. That is why my group is going to abstain in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u15	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u16	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. We express our disappointment at the proposal for a law put forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To begin with, we will say that this bill is far from the law 24/2015, which was unanimously adopted by the Parliament of Catalonia, whose careful reading I recommend to the proposer. It does not properly establish the principle of prior communication without the fact that companies cannot make any cuts to anyone and must first and foremost communicate to local authorities the situation of at least two accumulated defaults. Why does the GNP not set the income thresholds for aid and, on the other hand, is the deadline from which the company can interrupt supply, which is two and four months, depending on the type of consumer? The measure covers only those already granted social or last resort tariffs, when it should apply to all those in vulnerable situations and when they know that 80% of those suffering from energy poverty have not contracted the last resort social tariff. Why doesn't your proposal include butane? It only looks at the piped gas. The most vulnerable people in urban areas and most vulnerable families in rural areas use butane. We are also afraid that the social bonus they propose will also enhance the energy oligopoly, in this case the gas oligopoly. If you are not subscribed to Endesa or Iberdrola, according to your proposal, you cannot access the social bonus. If you are with Som Energia or any renewable energy cooperative, you cannot access the social bonus. Social bonus and oligopoly, Mrs. Lucio? It seems to me to be a contradiction and I think that we will have to propose to improve it. On the issue of gas, it is again the big companies that control the market. Moreover, they do not seem to be aware that the management of energy poverty is a proximity management that focuses on social services and, therefore, it is essential that energy poverty funds to finance the rebates and the application of the social bonus be territorialized. More doubts. Why, even if it is transitional, do we not start to change the energy model towards 100% renewable and 100% democratic? With this model we only put patches and the weakest links in society will always depend on large companies. Besides, the new paradigm is coming and nothing is being done here. Norway, despite being a producer country, will stop trading gas in 2020 to heat homes and everything will depend on electricity and biomass. Why don't we switch to the new paradigm of self-consumption for electricity and biomass in some cases for heating? We also remind you that your proposal for a law does not contain anything as basic and common in Europe as is the winter truce, which was also contained in the Catalan Consumer Code, which the TC, of course, challenged. In fact, this is what we are going to do, because, as the secessionist Member, Mrs Nogueras, has said, nobody escapes that in Catalonia we have been trying for years to avoid power, gas or electricity cuts to vulnerable families and you, the State with its Constitutional Court, have been banning all efforts to make our country a more just society. Finally, even if the whole speech seemed to say otherwise, we will vote in favour of the consideration but hoping not to amend, since if October 1 wins the yes, the Law against energy poverty that we adopted in the Parliament of Catalonia and that - as I have repeatedly told you the Constitutional Court has kept parked, it will be back in force, guaranteeing a minimum of dignity to the victims of their economic and social policies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u17	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are here to discuss a PL whose debate we could say began over a year ago and that is why I will begin to quote the data with which we began to deliberate just in the middle of 2016. By the end of 2016 - and that's why I say the data is from there - there were 4.5 million Spaniards with serious problems... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u19	One second, Mrs. Rodriguez. Silence, please, that the speaker is not heard. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u20	Thank you, President. As I said, there were 4.5 million Spaniards with serious problems keeping their home at a reasonable temperature of 18 degrees. In addition, civil society has said that this situation continues to worsen and continues to increase. In the last two years - these data will also remind you - electricity has risen by 34%, gas by 22%, butane by 23% and water by 8.5%. We have also repeatedly appointed European directives in this House which precisely support that something needs to be done for these vulnerable households, both Directive 2009/72 and Directive 2009/73. It is necessary to recognize that there are and that unfortunately we have vulnerable households, but when they talk about energy poverty or people in vulnerable situations they only talk about electricity when we really have to talk about also calorific energy or, which is the same thing, about the manifestation of energy in the form of heat. This House has tried - and we are going to put the attempt between quotes, with a box and with phosphorescent lights - to correct this situation of vulnerability; I say it has tried with all these connotations because nothing has yet been done and the citizens still see absolutely nothing. In Citizens we advocate - in that agreement that was reached for the social bonus and for that regulation that is still under observation - that the figure of the vulnerable consumer had to be defined, that the figure of the vulnerable consumer in an extreme situation had to be defined, that an income criterion had to be set, that such citizenship had to be notified before any court could be promoted, because it would help the social services to identify those cases that might have been missed. [[Rumors]] I have to express my disappointment at the old parties - it is not with any derogatory connotation, I simply say it with all my respect - because we have already proposed that gas should be included in the reform of the social bond, we have proposed it even at the time when it was being negotiated - if your ladies and gentlemen shut up and let me speak, it would be great, and if I do not continue to say it because in spite of that the parties that we are not so old are going to continue to defend our ideas - we have proposed that special interest be placed in the gas situation and in the special areas where the electrification of heating was not easy. [[Rumors]] We have not only said it orally. We tabled a GNP just at the beginning of this parliamentary term, it was debated at the first session of the Energy Committee and it was approved by the majority of its Members, there was no vote against, that is, we are debating the same thing that the Commission has already discussed. We also let the regulations for the social bonus develop and we proposed that the gas be included, but neither the Socialist Party nor the People's Party was interested at that time, not even listening to us; with this, deaf ears were made or, rather, looked elsewhere. There are things that surprise us; we are surprised that the summary is that a PL has been presented on something that is already approved, an initiative of Citizens - but it would have been an initiative of any party - on something that the Socialist Party did not want to take into account when negotiating, which causes even more disappointment, because we no longer know if they really want to solve citizens' problems or present opportunist PL at times when they think they have to have some energy holder and, far from trying to solve citizens' lives, they want to make political propaganda. Mrs Lucio said that the Socialist Party is clear. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, silence. Mr Odon Elorza, you have heard what you have just said and I hope that you will be included in the Journal of Sessions. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have anything to say, I would ask you to be on a level of voice that is not heard in the Presidency and that allows you to listen to the speaker, who is for what we are gathered here for. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u22	Sometimes some fellow Members of the House do not like what is being heard. The Socialist Party said it has clear things. It was time, the truth, because even the tides of the sea, not the tides of United We can, are much more constant and, although sometimes they have different intensities, we know where they go. In any case, rather than taking advantage of their political capital in the negotiation that took place, what they have preferred is to discuss a bill that was passed in the House a long time later. The way is not the bill, it is completely clear. We are supposed to tend to simplify the laws, try to unite them and make them as efficient as possible. Unfortunately, they want to continue to duplicate and triple many of the laws. Some of my colleagues have often cited the dramatic case that happened in Reus last year, and they will certainly also mention it during this debate. What demonstrated this tragic result was the lack of coordination between autonomous communities, municipalities, social services and the State. What does that mean? That when it comes to people who are in a vulnerable situation it is supposed that, in relation to skills, struggles or codaços to see how far I get and how far you get should disappear, because, in principle, the interest of all of us must be that we do not allow the light or gas to be cut off to any vulnerable home if it is to warm up their home. That is, on December 23, 2016, this House passed a royal decree with the agreement of the People's Party, the Socialist and Citizens' Party. The rules of procedure were negotiated, although the Government did not have to negotiate them, with the forces already mentioned last April. Nine months after the adoption of the royal decree and five months after the negotiation, the regulations remain in consultation. I leave you only one thought: on September 23rd, the autumn begins and we will arrive with a regulation on social bonus that is not applied and without being able to give solutions to those people who, not because they have chosen it, are in a situation of vulnerability. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u24	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Mrs Lucio, we are going to vote in favour of taking into account the proposal for a law that they are making to us today, but we are going to put it to you because our group does not share your proposal and we are therefore going to amend the wording, since we understand that it is a matter of importance to our country. Why is it of enormous importance to our country? Because we have six million human beings, who are people, who are affected by energy poverty. We have a million households that have difficulty paying their bill for light. We have more than three million households with permanent difficulties and delays in paying for electricity and gas, water and other supplies. We have, ladies and gentlemen - I see you are passionate, especially on the bench of the People's Party, with your absence - more than 7,000 deaths a year only because of energy poverty. This is real Spain, it is not Spain that is working in the ranks of the People's Party. Mrs Lucio, we are bewildered, because they make this bill by giving the People's Party a blank check so that what it wants to do will leave us - we insist - very worried. The question of who is a vulnerable consumer, Mrs Lucio, is not a technical issue to be raised in a regulation, it is a social issue that needs to be discussed in this House. He talks about human beings, and therefore - I insist - we are very surprised that you understand that it is a technical issue and that it is the People's Party that should regulate it. I do not know how they rely, Mrs Lucio, because it has actually been ten months, and there is no regulation. I don't know how you rely, when all the municipalities of change have made claims to the proposal and the pact that you - PP, Citizens and PSOE - have made. They do not share your proposal, Mrs Lucio, honestly. I do not know how they are able to continue discussing whether energy, electricity and gas supplies are essential goods. My group does not know how they can understand that we are mandated by the fourth observation of the UN Committee on Economic and Social Rights, which tells us exactly this: that housing has to enjoy supplies in decent conditions. Mrs Lucio, I do not know how we do not attend to the fact that there are children living in houses that have humidity, that have leaks, that have no decent living conditions, when this is the concern that should reflect the rule that you propose today. [[Applauds]] And they don't do it, Mrs. Lucio. I do not know how they do not incorporate it again after the debate that we have had, let us learn from the Catalan norm, from the rule of the Valencia Country, let us incorporate in the laws the right of precaution, let us stop doubting when to cut off the supply of gas or electricity to a human being; let us incorporate this fundamental principle and also provide in our laws that silence in administrative files has to operate positively; let us assume that it is a consumer who has enormous difficulties. Mrs Lucio, of course we do not share your proposal. I'm going to give you a story in which Mr. Vendrell and I participated in a meeting with the bosses of the big energy multinationals in this country. The Supreme Court ruling comes out that to make it clear - to make it clear - it does not tell us that it is illegal for the social bonus in one case or another, electric or gas, to be paid by the multinationals, but what it tells us is that the distribution has been discriminatory and as a result of that ruling let us remember, Mrs Lucio, what was the request made to us by the great men in this case of the energy employers? Man! Let the public administrations pay for it. And here you are that after PP, PSOE and Citizens agree on the social bonus - and today they bring it here - that - Juan Pueblo - the public administrations pay at least 50%. We do not agree, Mrs Lucio, we do not agree at all. They don't agree with the municipalities, they don't share this measure. We do not agree, moreover, by reviewing the debates that have taken place in this House on this issue, because Mr Nadal has told us: do not worry about the municipalities, which will have additional funding for this issue. I have taken the trouble, Mrs Lucio, of calling the councillors and councillors of the branch of the municipalities of the most important cities of our country, and of complementary funding, nothing at all. Mr Nadal has also told us - absent - that we did not really worry, that we arrived in winter with the regulation and this problem solved. Mrs Lucio, of course, I do not know what the Socialist Party needs to do to make this rule, which is an absolutely comfortable rule for the People's Party. I don't know what they're going to vote for on the blue bench, but, of course, they don't have any compromise, they'd vote and they'd be right for sure on the blue bench, not on the bench on this side. To conclude, Mrs Lucio, we have enormous difficulties with your proposal because we continue with the same thing. It is that the Infanta Cristina both in the electric social bonus and in the bonus that you propose today of channeled gas - another day will bring us the proposal of the butane candy - finally will become recipient of the social bond both electric and of channeled gas only because of the simple fact that it has a large family. Well, we don't agree, Mrs. Lucio, what are we going to do to her! Let's look at Portugal, that brother country that we have here next door, and that without any redundancy everything that has to do with energy poverty is automatically awarded, simply by crossing the income data, is very easy. The Tax Agency - Mr Montoro is absent - knows everything, we cross data and automatically grant this right. Mrs Lucio, the issue of energy has to do with defining which side we are on. Our Confederal Group is very clear: we are on the side of people, of fundamental rights, of understanding it just as an essential good; we are not on the side of the multinational energy companies, Mrs Lucio, whether it be electricity or gas. And obviously, it is more than clear that we have a small problem, to maintain this position of defending people we have to intervene in energy prices, without cutting ourselves.That is the only solution, Mrs Lucio!, you have said, you have sold us a huge motorcycle: we will liberalize the energy sector to lower energy prices, 76% increase in electricity, 64% in gas, a data that you yourself have given, did not serve for this, we have to intervene in the price of energy without cutting. [[Applauds]] And secondly, Mrs Lucio, as our President, Pablo Iglesias, has already told you, there is indeed a very important measure that needs to be taken: it is enough politicians on the boards of the big energy companies, it is enough revolving doors! [[Applauds]] I'm done. Mrs Lucio, we do not even share, and you incorporate it in the text, that you continue to say that the distribution in the marketing companies has to be by the number of customers, that's just doing the big multinationals a big favor of energy. It has already been said by Esquerra's colleague, and is that obviously small cooperatives - as would be the case - and small companies that are moving forward in what has to do with energy democracy such as Nosa Energia or Som Enerxía are frankly damaged. Mrs Lucio, with all affection I will tell you that we are going to do a strong job in the group to amend the wording of the proposal, but we must choose: either we are on the side of the multinationals or we are on the side of fundamental rights. We have that clear: alongside fundamental rights. [[Applause of the Members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u25	Mr Anaya has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u26	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is clear that the People's Party will support and improve, if possible, any mechanism that strengthens the position of vulnerable consumers, in this case in the field of natural gas, but in our view this initiative is poorly thought out. This initiative prevents us from finally achieving long-term energy policy pleonasm, that is, abandoning short-term energy policy, making long-term energy policy a redundancy, which we understand by building and working together we can have a reliable and secure long-term energy system. Is it time to present this initiative? I'm not saying it's not legitimate, but we don't see it, Your Honor. I think that it suffers from serious technical errors and that it makes a calculation of the electrical social bonus that had already to be rectified, the bonus that was approved in 2009 and that we had to rectify in the year 2016 among all that we wanted to work and present documentation and papers, because Mrs Díaz - I mean the representative of Podemos - talks about people, work, shared effort, but, not a role, not a line, not an initiative. It's easy to come here and shout, to hold positions in defense of people, but the tricky thing is to sit at a table and reach agreements, as the People's Party has done with the Socialist Party and citizens. [[Applauds]] That's the complicated thing, and that's how you act in this house, Your Honor, working and building; not trying to demonize the work that others do. Look at the proposal you have just made, where you say that the social bonus is paid according to the number of customers. That means giving back to the big companies 50 million euros, Mrs. Díaz. [[Applauds]] I don't know if you know that. The proposal you have just made gives two large companies EUR 50 million. The problem is that this matter requires rigour, work and effort. It said before that we all approved a social bonus that greatly improves the one approved in 2009; an electric social bonus that guarantees its financing, which guarantees not only 25% discount to vulnerable groups but also rises it to 40% in those who are in severe vulnerability. We have managed to increase the time for cutting from two to four months and we have provided more information to the consumer. That's working and that's what we've done with the electric bonus. I say that the initiative put forward by the Socialist Party is flawed because, as the group's spokesman is well aware, the European Directive 72/2009 on the Internal Energy Market established the universal right of access to electricity, because electricity is the only source of energy that has no substitute. Therefore, with the initiative that you have presented it is difficult to bring natural gas to that rank of universal law; therefore I say that there is a clear lack of rigour in the terminology used and in the solution that you put forward. It is clear that the market for access to natural gas is different from that for electricity. To the PVPC, the voluntary price of the small consumer, there are about 12 million people; instead, to the last resort gas tariff only 1,700,000 people, therefore, the same solutions cannot be applied to both concepts. The alternative in Spain to natural gas, which is liquefied petroleum gas or butane candy, has set a maximum price for the government, which prevents the vulnerability of international markets from causing the 8 million users of butane candy to be adversely affected by access to that good, and I say 8 million people. Let us bear in mind that those families that use butane candy in the usual homes are the ones with the most disadvantaged economy, so we guarantee them access. In addition, it should be borne in mind that a 5% discount on butane candy has recently been approved in Spain, making it the cheapest in Europe. That is what this Government has done, which does care about the most vulnerable, but not with shambles, not with rallies, but with concrete facts and black on white. Mrs Lucio talks about the gas market, about trying to reduce the price. Bad energy policies, also in gas, always mean that we have to pay more on the bill. And I regret to have to take this matter back here, but Royal Decree 858/2008, the decree on the storage of Castor, which approved a socialist government, allowed us all to finance the investment made by the company that operated it, regardless of whether there was negligence or fraud. That has led us to have to pay EUR 1350 million, which, together with the interest, is EUR 45 billion for thirty years on the gas bill of each of the Spaniards. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, to avoid such measures, seeking populism alone and exclusively. Let us work together, present documents that are reliable, credible and technically sustainable. We, the members of the People's Party, carry it in DNA: the financial sustainability of our decisions and our political ideas. Basically, in paladin roman, what we say is that we can pay what is said and that we do not bring - and I also look at the comrades of Podemos - political decisions that raise the debt to the future, because the biggest crime that a politician in Spain can commit is to transfer the debt to the future, that is, to benefit me today from an activity that I approve today and to transfer its cost to the future, therefore to the next generations. That is why, and I conclude, we invite you to the economic sustainability of the measures that are presented. We are going to sit down and work together on those measures in which, as is the case, we can all add up and avoid taking advantage of these kinds of opportunities for a short-term profitability that does not lead to anything at all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u27	Thank you very much. - THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS CAN COMMONLY BE DEVELOPED, AGAINST DISCRIMINATION BY SEXUAL GUIDELINE, IDENTITY OR EXPRESSION OF SEXUAL GENERAL AND CHARACTERISTICS, AND OF SOCIAL EQUALITY OF LESBIAN, GAS, BISEXUAL, TRANSEXUAL, TRANSGENERAL AND INTERSEXUAL LESBIANS. [[File number 122/000097]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u28	It is now appropriate, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, identity or expression of gender and sexual characteristics, and of social equality of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals, transgender and intersexuals. Mrs García Puig has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u29	Good afternoon. Today, when we present a law for the democratic advancement of the entire State, as a Catalan, it would be impossible not to start by denouncing from this rostrum the violation of fundamental freedoms and rights that the People's Party Government is perpetrating against my land and that it has already extended to the whole State. [[Applauds]] And that's exactly where I wanted to start my intervention. The Ramblas of Barcelona have always been a setting for freedom and diversity. Forty years ago, activists for sexual and gender freedom manifested themselves there, in what is considered the first LGBTI demonstration of the Spanish State. Thousands of people were scattered as they sang slogans such as'sexual amnesty', 'we're not dangerous' or 'Behind the windows there are lesbians'. Now, when we just completed a month of the terrible attack in Las Ramblas, one of his songs sounds more vital and current than ever: 'Ours do not have for, we have som'. I cannot help but begin by thanking all those people who have not been afraid, who have made and continue to make Las Ramblas and the streets of the world places of freedom. [[Applauds]] Today we are joined in a rostrum by a representation of these brave people who have fought and have not surrendered until this law that we are debating today came to Congress. This is your law. Activists from all over the Spanish State of the Lesbian, Gais, Transexual and Bisexual Federation and also from other entities have been working on this bill for years. Today we all have a huge responsibility, a responsibility that I warn you that it is possible to make me tremble at some point, but it is not for less. Today we decide, by admitting this law, whether we are a Congress of Deputies that listens to the street and its demands and whether this country is able to do justice to people who have so far been oppressed because of gender identity and sexual diversity. Today we finally decide whether we want a more diverse, richer and fairer society. [[Applauds]] Now I wanted to show you two pictures. The first picture is this. [[Show a picture]] It's the day of the registration of the law. It includes all parliamentary groups, except the People's Group, supporting the registration of the law. I hope that you will remember it when you come up here to the rostrum and that you will also remember it when you vote. The second photo is of the Day of Pride, the day of the manifestation for the LGTBI pride in Madrid. [[Shows a photo of the event, on whose banner it says: For LGTBI rights all over the world]] In it we see Javier Maroto and Andrea Levy, of the Popular Group, who committed themselves to this demonstration with the FELGTB and with the collectives to support this law. It seems that the Government is going to abstain, with which we see clearly how long its commitment has lasted: the time to take a picture. I want to address them especially. This law that we are debating today is intended to change the lives of hundreds, thousands and millions of people, not only in the Spanish State, but throughout the world. The text we are proposing is an ambitious, pioneering law, which, if adopted, would bring about changes at the international level. Homosexuality is penalized in more than seventy countries, in some with the death penalty. The Congress of Deputies has the opportunity to show that unity that they so much invoke these days. Let us adopt this law and say loudly from the Spanish state that we are united in the fight against LGBTI-phobia. As I said, this is an ambitious law, a law of ninety-nine articles, which addresses all moments and areas of life. It is a law that of course seeks to deal with LGBTI-phobic aggressions, in alarming rise nowadays, but it is also a law that recognizes that we are facing a structural problem. Let's not be fooled, the LGTBI-phobia is not just a matter of a few violent individuals outside the system, the LGTBI-phobia is present in the system and often emanates from the State's own structures. It is for this reason that measures are proposed to modify the administrative, educational, health and labour systems, among others. One of the most important aspects of the law is that it pays attention to the most vulnerable and can suffer multiple discrimination. In addition to being a feminist law, which includes a cross-cutting gender perspective, it contains specific articles for elderly LGBTI persons, migrant or asylum-seeking persons, those deprived of their liberty, minors and adolescents or trans women. I've said it before, this is a very ambitious law. We know that one law does not change society from one day to the next, but its adoption will help transform the gender logics of the society in which we live, a logic that oppresses all people who do not fit into the binary system that imposes us. This is a law that will certainly directly affect LGBTI people, but it is a law whose beneficiaries we are the entire society. This law makes us more free and diverse, more just and more human. Keep this in mind, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when you press the voting button, because these votes change lives. But today it's not all over. If the law is accepted through, as we all hope, we must continue to work. The LGTBI collective, a historical victim of repression and silence, is ready to listen to and face pending debates, as is undoubtedly the freedom of expression, which should be dealt with during the parliamentary process. A complex parliamentary procedure is coming, as the law is complex. A law that challenges aspects so rooted in our society will always be legally complex, but we must all fight to reach agreements that do not mean lowering the courage and ambition of the text, and we must do so together, by the hand, activists and deputies, street and hemicycle. As we have been shown, for example, the incredible social mobilization against the transphobic bus, which wanted to rape our cities, the LGTBI-phobia does not fit in our streets. Let's listen to people, our society screams at us. We sound, we don't have to. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u30	I give the floor to Mrs Fernández Castañón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u31	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. On more than one occasion I have come up to this rostrum to fight measures that improve people's lives or to denounce those issues that prevent it, that make it impossible. Today, however, I rise with all the pride that generates us to the Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to have helped this bill, which has been made with LGTBi collectives from all over the State and in conjunction with the CLGTB, to be discussed today in this House. I will explain to you why this pride and why today we ask you to vote a yes without concessions, without abstention and without half inks at the beginning of this parliamentary process of a law that changes the lives of LGBTI people and that, as comrade Mar García Puig said, it also changes this House, which will do better because it collects on paper the defense of a collective historically despised and mistreated in the laws and social practices. When my party did not yet exist, when the crisis had not broken the horizon of expectations of so many young people in this country, as a form of mirage and for a short time, our laws opened up to gender equality and some other rules that we reviewed today but which were then pioneers. A simple change in civil union management allowed this House to approve same-sex marriage. Like so many people in my environment and generation I experienced these changes as an achievement of my own, because if anything has taught us feminism is that all struggles are sisters and all injustices are the fruit of the same rotten root. In addition to the companions who are with us today, I would like to remind those who for the past forty years have not stopped fighting for justice in love and expression, for lives free of violence, for equal access to employment, to health, to control their own bodies. This has also been taught by the feminist struggle, that without genealogy we do not get any change or go anywhere. [[Applauds]] This is the law of collectives and, as my colleague Mar García Puig has explained, covers the whole life of LGBTI people so that they are guaranteed non-discrimination, equality and protection. But it is not only the law of the collectives, ladies and gentlemen, it is the law that makes each and every one a little more free, fairer, more open, that makes this House a vanguard for a better society that truly embraces the word democracy with joy and conviction of social justice. My group comes to politics from a premise that, in cases such as mine and that of many of the comrades on the bench, meat is made. Normal people, normal people who for a while have devoted ourselves, for consistency and dignity, to the responsibility of political representation and to the mandate of our electoral programme at the polls. That normal person, who is one, has a five-year-old child whose sexuality, gender identity, tastes and desires need not be determined today. What I want is for you to be free to choose who you want to be and how you want to live, and to be protected by the state like any other citizen. I want you not to be humiliated, harassed, abused, mistreated, abused in school, in the street or at work, who does not suffer any violence just because you do not respond to the stereotype of masculinities or femininities that is imposed on us by a system socially built to make us - let us not be mistaken - worse people, less free and less courageous, that this has also been taught by feminisms. Sometimes what happens is that when a person is not subject to an oppression or a concrete pain it is difficult to put on the skin of the other person. In Spain, people have laughed at supposedly harmless jokes but who were homophobic; in Spain, people have laughed at people who beat their wife too much, rape and violence. Our society has that, and that doesn't educate us. Only when we begin - and I look above all at the People's Group bench so that it also has this in mind - to discuss in depth and to feel with those who suffer these violences, to make our pain and to cry out against the injustice that it means for everyone not being able to live in true freedom, only when we do that we are truly transforming an unjust society. Therefore, with the pride with which I came up to the rostrum, with the pride of listening to a colleague who has worked very hard on this law, with all the collectives who are proud to have them here with us on this day, we ask you as a proposing group to feel also pride, to be up to it and to vote yes to start the indispensable work of this proposition in order to be law, to be real and to be life. Thank you very much. [[applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party We can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea, standing up, looking at the guest gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u32	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Salvador Armendáriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to agree with the proponents on the need to legislate in the face of everything that is unfair and, of course, we too are against attitudes that defend undesirable and reprehensible discrimination against anyone. But, honestly, little more. This proposal contains too many formulations that collide with constitutional rights recognized and accepted by all who generate many reservations. I'll aim them schematically. One, the new rights of a few, understood as absolute rights in the law without limits, will result in abuses and injustices. Two, the degree of subjectivism will generate enormous legal uncertainty, ladies and gentlemen. Three, the null reference to the laws of biology, which in this law appear to be intentionally hidden, will create more conflicts than it intends to resolve. Four, the right to the presumption of innocence of the accused for acts of discrimination is eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a right that even the terrorists of ISIS retain today; this is nonsense. Five, thus, the overprotection of some collectives consecrates, ladies and gentlemen, first and second class citizens and, therefore, the law generates inequality. Six, gender ideology, ladies and gentlemen, is today a kind of secular religion, with dogmas, sanctions, censorship and courts. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u34	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u35	It wants to impose itself as a model of education without respecting the right of parents to educate our children on the basis of our own convictions and principles. Seven, moreover, the overprotection of a few also restricts something fundamental in democracy, which is freedom of expression. This is probably the most serious thing. We have many doubts about the literature on articles that talk about the competences of the autonomous communities and the amendment of twenty laws with a very improveable systematic. Finally, the law - as your proposer has said, ladies and gentlemen - will benefit a particular lobby of private pressure. It is its law, therefore, that welcomes the legitimate aspirations of this particular collective but not the defence of the general interest. Those desires of integrality and transversality become, in our opinion, integralism and totalism. We are not going to steal the debate and we are not going to vote in favour, but we will put forward all kinds of initiatives to eliminate the excesses contained in the law, to seek more focused and respectful legislation and, of course, to defend the right to education, equality, freedom of expression, the presumption of innocence and the competences of the autonomous communities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u37	Thank you, President. The speech we just heard argues a little more than I was going to say, that this is an abnormal state. I say this because in this state it is transgressing to talk about human rights. When we talk about laws that guarantee respect for all people, we seem to talk about lowering the moon to the ground. And, yes, all this is because this is an abnormal state. It is an aconfessional state, but its president resorts to the Law of Homosexual Marriage to defend religious interests. It is a welfare state, but it governs for banks and lets people fall. It is a democratic state, but it bothers an LGTBI flag, it bothers a LGTBI flag more than a Franco flag; in fact, displaying a Franco flag on a wheel has no consequence and, on the contrary, displaying an LGTBI flag in front of a bus is the cause of complaints. [[Applauds]] And this, you look where you look, it's abnormal. Imagine how much abnormality comes when a cardinal dares to warn us of the arrival of the gay empire. The empire in Star Wars is the dark side and, in the words of Master Yoda, fear is the way to the dark side, fear leads to anger, leads to hatred and hatred leads to suffering. And this empire has neither anger nor fear nor hatred, what it does have is much suffering; suffering for the years of repression, suffering for the silence imposed, suffering for the attacks by those absolutists who do have fear and that is what leads to the dark side. We welcome this multicolored empire, the empire of respect, equality, freedom, the empire of all people. We welcome today's debate on this law as it contributes to making this State a little more normal. Today, as always, the multicolor empire needs us. May the force accompany us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u38	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Ciuro i Buldo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u39	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I rise to the rostrum to say yes, that of course we will give our support to the processing of this law in order to ultimately eliminate all discrimination against LGBTI people. We follow the step of the law adopted in Catalonia, Law 11/2014, of 10 October, precisely to guarantee civil rights, human rights, fundamental rights of people. It is timely, and it is also timely, that this House should be brought to debate on a day like today, when the State is living its lowest hours of defence and respect for fundamental rights. Today, in the Spanish State, the most basic rights are being absolutely violated, and I say so from the rostrum of the Congress of Deputies. Freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of association are being pursued in the Spanish State today, printing works are being registered without warrants and with no guarantees, and all with an excuse. But you know what? That the defence of civil rights, human rights, fundamental rights cannot have any excuse, no one can afford an excuse not to defend human rights. Today, a Spanish Constitution emptied of content by its transfer of sovereignty to Europe is against the ropes precisely because the Spanish State is violating these fundamental rights and, therefore, violating Article 11 of the European Charter of Human Rights. We feel shame for those who promote it and shame for those who applaud these decisions. Let us hope that common sense will return to this state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u40	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u41	Thank you, Madam President. The Confederal Group of the United Podemos presents a bill against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, sexual characteristics and social equality of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, transgender and intersexual. Surely, from a claim and defense of dignity that is unique to every human being from birth to death, and even if it is perhaps utopian and overly generalistic, it would suffice to point out that no human being can be discriminated against, and point. But to understand discrimination as a negative act, an act of rejection and which goes against precisely that dignity that I mentioned before, that is to say, to understand that discrimination with these concepts without any need to add any complementary reasons to it, are derived from their sex, gender, belief and all the characteristics of which people give to our own identity. The aim of this law is - I quote textually - to develop and guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, transgender and intersexual persons, eradicating situations of discrimination in order to ensure that in the Spanish State the sexual and family affective diversity can be lived with full freedom. [[LGTBI]] Indeed, on the basis of the global principle of non-discrimination, we can only show our commitment to any initiative that seeks this objective. In this respect, nothing to object to, my group's position is clear; it has been and is here in Euskadi, we do not question the objective of this proposal, so I am already announcing that we will vote in favour of it being dealt with. Our differences relate to how, not to what, and how, ladies and gentlemen, and also people from different LGBTI groups who are in the House today - it is very important. And when we say how we refer both to the way in which you give the proposed legislative text and to the scope that you want to give it, that is, the jurisdictional and territorial scope that you propose and some of the areas that you want to legislate by means of this proposed law. You say this in the text, no doubt, because the history of discrimination in this State is long. It has been evident and necessary the persistent efforts and activism of the LGTBI groups to claim their claims over decades, even in dark and dangerous times, as they say in the preamble. It is of justice and absolutely necessary to remember the past of suffering that those people lived for so many years. Fortunately, much progress has been made, much I would say, if we start from undemocratic, dictatorial, homophobic and disrespectful situations with human rights with which in times not far away was ruled by iron in the Spanish State. Allow me a small parenthesis because I believe that all the advances in individual rights and freedoms that have been made have not had a faithful reflection on collective rights and freedoms. The clearest example is that still collectives, peoples and nations in this State are not given their right to decide, for example. I say this because there is an article in this proposed law, the 76, which gives the right to self-determination of identity, something with which I fully agree: the right to self-determination of people and the right to self-determination of peoples. Is it not a democratic contradiction so much progress in some things and so much delay in others? In any case - you mention it in your proposal -, public scandal, law of vagus and malevolent, crime of homosexuality, all these things have happened in this state not long ago; all these offensive and unfortunately legal issues appeared in the legislation. This new text, which mainly provides for the establishment and regulation of the principles, measures and means aimed at fully guaranteeing the right to real and effective equality of gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, transgender and intersex persons, are rights which exist in other legislative texts, but not under the concrete premise of this group of persons. We are therefore talking, on the one hand, about ensuring real equality, and on the other hand, about non-discrimination by. They are recognized rights, based on legal and democratic texts, even if they do not have that heading, but explicit and concrete recognition is necessary because these people, because they are, have received a lot of discrimination. There are other laws - in Euskadi we have the one of 2012 and recently the Foreign Parliament of Navarre has passed a magnificent law, that of June 2017 - and we could extend in legislative texts, but as I have very little time left I would like to highlight some objections that we have. In the area of competition, this proposal for a law does not contain any title of competition on which to base the proposal; it does not appear. The fifth final provision concerns autonomous laws, but it should be borne in mind that, for example, in the Basque Country, Act No. 14/2012 of 28 June 2012 establishes that the competent institutions of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi are the ones to determine the regulatory positions in this area. I also want to say that we do not like the issue of the state agency very much. When issues are reunited in that way, believing that giving the State the capacity or doing something unique for all is improved, experience tells us that it is not. We know that some autonomous communities do not legislate well or that the rulers of some autonomous communities do not respond to what they should do, but that is not an obstacle to those who have the competence and do so being usurped of that matter in exchange for the State assuming that. In any case, organic laws cannot be amended through an ordinary law such as the present one, so these and other issues must be taken into account. I'm finishing up, Madam President. There are a number of issues that appear in the text that need to be revised, modified and some others deleted with the aim of having a valid, legally impeccable and socially and politically valid text, which is the objective, not just a text with great pretensions that remains in a mere testimony. That is why we believe that it must be taken into account, processed and worked on in the Commission and in the presentation, with the amendments being negotiated, incorporated and, above all, agreed. Let us hope that you will have a fruitful journey towards real and non-discriminatory equality, which is what it is all about. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u42	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u43	Too late to all and so to all. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Salvador - from UPN, not my Republican colleague - thank you, because thanks to you we know what Opus thinks. In fact, we already suspected it, but thank you for reminding us. [[Applauds]] Let me start - well, not start, because it was worth saying hello to Opus and Mr. Salvador - by welcoming the companions of the State Federation of Lesbians, Gais, Transexuals and Bisexuals, who accompany us today. It's a pleasure to meet you again and again. In the name of Catalan republicanism, you know perfectly well that you will always count on our support in your struggle, which is also ours. This proposal for a law is not in defence of the rights of LGBTI people - I must say so - but in defence of all and of all, because it is of all and of all the struggle for equal rights and the eradication of any kind of discrimination. We must therefore overcome a heteronormative and binary society in order to be free to be who we are, regardless of the sex assigned to us at birth. In fact, we have to be and be able to love as we want, where we want and who we want and do it freely. Achieving such a society is up to all of us and not just LGBTI people. That is why Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya wants to build a new republic, where recognition and respect for sexual and gender diversity is part of its founding values, a new country with a Constitution that explicitly recognizes the right of all people to be who they are, regardless of their gender identity or expression or sexual orientation; a new country that actively fights to eradicate any form of homophobia, biphobia or transphobia in society. Catalonia is a pioneer country in the LGTBI struggle; we were pioneers with the adoption in the Parliament of Catalonia of Law 11/2014, of 10 October, to guarantee the rights of people LGTBI and to eradicate the LGTBI-phobia, a law that we cannot fully develop in the current Spanish legal framework. That is why we aim to have the tools of a State to provide us with powerful anti-discrimination legislation to guarantee the rights of LGBTI people. We also aim to be present in international bodies in order to be able to influence with the rest of the world's nations on global policies to defend gender and affective diversity and to guarantee human rights. In fact, the tools of a State must also serve us to break silences; for example, to break the silence about what happened in Chechnya and also to fight the death penalty because of sexual orientation and gender identity still present in too many countries of the world. It is essential, as I said, to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia that this past year have been strongly heard in the Spanish State. Hatred of gay, lesbian, bisexual, transsexual and intersexual people is not an isolated fact, it is a systemic problem that is still too deep-rooted in our society and we will not be able to solve it if we do not fight it relentlessly by all possible means. We therefore support this proposal for a law. We must do everything in our hands so that, for example, Xavier Tallon does not again receive an assault on the cry of 'fucking maricones'; so that Andy and Jorge do not get punched until they lose consciousness by kissing in public; so that LGBTBI-phobic campaigns like those of HazteOir stop having room in our society and much less are protected as in public interest by the Ministry of the Interior; so that no child is the victim of any social murder like Alan, who, suffering such a degree of bullying for his gender identity, ended up suicide, and, ladies and gentlemen, so that murders like that of transsexual Sonia do not occur again and never do so. [[Applauds]] But we must go beyond; it is vital to go beyond. We will not achieve real equality if we do not cross-examine the heteronormality that our heteropatriarchal social system culturally imposes. The proposal we want to take into account today is a good proposal for a law. It is the result of a laborious work by different groups and political parties committed to guaranteeing the rights of all and the rights of all. Along with other laws that we will soon discuss in this Parliament, it must overcome the problems generated by the false Gender Identity Act, facilitating and expediting procedures for name and sex change in official documents and certificates; abolishing compulsory medical treatment and also the diagnosis of mental health as a requirement for the recognition of gender identity and recognizing the right of minors to their sexual identity. It should also enable situations of discrimination to be eradicated in order to ensure that in the Spanish State there is full freedom to live the emotional and family diversity. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about moving from formal equality to real equality once and for all. For this reason, public administrations must be involved not only in combating LGTBI-phobia, but also in heteronormativeness. Under no circumstances is this proposed law the definitive culmination of the struggle for the equality of all persons, regardless of their sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. In Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya we believe that there is still much work to be done until the definitive eradication of the heteropatriarchy and we will continue to work, as we have always done, for the constitution of a Catalan republic fully respectful of the diversity and rights of the LGBTI people who, as I have said, are also the rights of all and the rights of all. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u44	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u45	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is one thing that distinguishes my group, Citizens, it is the constant search for that necessary balance that must exist between equality and freedom, and that must be the very essence of this debate. Before we begin, I would like to greet all the LGTBI associations that are with us today, making a special mention of the FELGTB, the drafter of this law. We thank you for being a pioneer in defending the rights of LGBTI people. Thank you for promoting equality by denouncing historical discrimination and fighting every day for it to be eradicated. We also thank all those people who individually in their work, in their family, in their surroundings... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u46	Quiet, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u47	... raise their voice in the face of the injustices suffered by so many LGBTI people. [[Applauds]] Thanks to all of you today we can feel more proud of the country in which we live. While countries like Germany have just legalized homosexual marriage, in ours it has been legal for 12 years despite some obstacles. I would also like to remind and acknowledge here Socialist Pedro Zerolo, with whom I had the opportunity to work, President of the FELGTB on his day and who did so much to get that law approved. As Pedro said, countries not only export hams, they also export ideas and models of society. In Citizens we want a model of society that respects the rights of all and guarantees that freedom. Yes, we have taken important steps, but much remains to be done, freedom is difficult to achieve and very easy to lose. We believe that there is a need for a law that addresses all forms of discrimination against LGBTI people as a whole and ensures the possibility of personal development in both the private and public spheres. Yes, that discrimination exists, it still exists, there are still too many children who go to school because they suffer the constant mockery of their peers; adolescents who end up thinking that they are worth nothing just by showing themselves how they are faced with intolerants who intend to decide about the rest - decide how to dress, how to talk, how to feel -; adolescents who commit suicide - said the deputy of Esquerra - as Alan, who at seventeen years decided to take his life because he no longer endured the harassment to which he had been subjected. Alan got a DNI consistent with his sex sense, but that wasn't enough, it won't be enough for any transgender teen. There are also too many people who have been robbed of much of their lives, people who have not been able to show themselves as they are until an old age or until they have moved their place of residence. There are still too many people who see their labour rights limited to extreme levels, there are too many people who are practically invisible, such as bisexuals or intersexuals, many intersexuals who have been subjected to genital mutilation without their consent, without the consent of their parents; many people who continue to be treated as ill without being so; many people who suffer double discrimination, lesbians, transgender women, people with HIV. There are too many jokes and aggressions. It is worrying that hate crimes have decreased in all groups except the LGTBI group. It is also concerned that these aggressors are increasingly young. There are also children children from LGTBI families who are marginalized because of having parents of the same sex, children born by pregnancy subordinated to whom they are insulted and called merchandise. Let us be responsible and respectful of the words we use especially from here, ladies and gentlemen. We can help change all these attitudes, ensure the rights of LGBTI people. We have the obligation, the responsibility and a debt to all of them, to our society. But I must say that this law could have been raised in another way; Citizens already told FELGTB that there were serious defects that had to be corrected before it was presented. It could have been raised with the consensus of many parliamentary groups. It was not done this way perhaps because the Podemos Group, which seems to be promoting, needs material for their weekly Twitter videos, in which they show how much they work, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of quantity, it is a question of quality, and the rushes are not good advisers. It seems that for you the important thing was to advance to any other group to appropriate the corresponding flag and neither people nor rights are so many to point out. Citizens also represent LGBTI people and will always be for the defense of their rights and freedom. All this demonstrates once again the partisan use they intend to make of certain matters. By the way, Mrs. García Puig, with the respect and appreciation that you know I have you, I'd like to tell you something. Yesterday I read an article in which I published that violence against LGBTI people is neoliberal violence. Normally, when you use this term the truth is that I tend to lose interest, but as this matter concerns me especially and today we were discussing this law here I continued to read it, and not a single explanation about it. See if you can explain it to me later, although it wouldn't be wrong for me to investigate communism and homosexuality a little earlier. [[Applauds]] Engels said it was a moral monstrosity. Stalin made her a felony with very harsh penalties. How many homosexuals were sent to the gulags in the former Soviet Union? And what about Evo Morales, a reference for some, who recently said that homosexuality is a deviation from eating chicken? [[Applauds]] Violence is not neoliberal, nor is it social democrat, nor do I even think it is communist despite this background and the damage that communism has done to the LGBTI collective. So stop trying to divide society with nightly concepts, please. Having said that, this law contains very positive points, which we will support. Public pro-active policies, efficiency control mechanisms, policy evaluation. It also regulates rights in all social spheres and treats education as a basic pillar, something that Citizens especially value. Fundamentally, as it stands here, is the depathologicalized health care of transgender and transgender people. We also welcome the fact that this law incorporates transgender women as victims of sexist violence. But, as I told you, rushes are not good counselors. This law has a central and determining vice, and is that the State lacks the competence to pass a law that declares itself a substitute. You make a totum revolutum, as pointed out earlier, mixing the competences of the State with the competences of the autonomous communities, and you are believed to arrange it by adding that provision which declares it an alternative to the whole law. As this law stands, it could be declared unconstitutional. Moreover, the law could be violating fundamental rights, such as effective judicial protection, such as freedom of expression. Some have already called it the law gag, even, by the way, a former deputy of his party. You create a state agency without the minimum requirements that it must meet, with sanctioning power and being both judge and party, without any impartiality. There are also points that deserve a much deeper debate, such as that of intra-gender violence. We resort to vagueness in terms, which would lead to serious legal uncertainty. In addition, paradoxically, this anti-discrimination law could be leading to discrimination in itself. He talks about guaranteeing the reproductive rights of people with the capacity to conceive, forgetting on purpose, because we know that the law has changed, to people who do not have that capacity, but the possibility of being parents through methods such as adoption or surrogate gestation. We will vote in favour of taking this law into consideration, but we will change with amendments all these shortcomings that we have pointed out. In short, we will vote yes to freedom, yes to equality, yes to diversity, but what we will never do will be to accept any discrimination in a law that, in theory, pretends to be the opposite. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u48	For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Galovart Carrera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u49	Good afternoon. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I thank the LGTB State Federation, FELGTB, for its hard work and commitment in drafting this law. It is also our appreciation to all LGTBI collectives, because they fight to achieve a better world and because they fight to be who they are and why others are. With this initiative, the LGTBI movement has once again demonstrated that activism is capable of changing things, doing the impossible and setting in motion the circle of progress. And it is with this consideration that we will take a step forward to put an end to the reproach and to extend the culture of non-discrimination in the face of the culture of hatred and prejudice. That is precisely why, because we walk without stopping, today it is fair to remember all those people who have lost their lives, their freedom and their dignity because they are lesbian, gay, transsexual, bisexual or intersexual, because they want to be, in short, as they were and as they are. Today, too, it is an appropriate day not to forget those who suffer harassment, physical and psychological violence, those who are the targets of expressions and hate crimes, those who do not have access to employment, housing or health, those who are condemned to a vital hell because they are LGBTI people. So much suffering Pedro Zerolo, not without irony, summed it up like this: The first time they call you a fag you realize what comes over you. Our tribute also to so many anonymous people who have given example of life, such as Pedro Díaz and Muño Vandilaz, Galicians and neighbors of a locality of Orense, who in 1061 married with the compromise of the parish priest, committing himself in public document to live together and care for each other on an equal footing. It was the first egalitarian marriage in Galicia and the first documented marriages in Europe. I close this parenthesis and return to the thread of my argumentation. Today, unfortunately, it is a day to scandalize us with the intolerance of the People's Party, as the Ministry of Health currently keeps transsexuality on its list of diseases. In spite of all this, we trust that this time the People's Party, which for the first time has participated in the manifestation of pride, will change its mind and, leaving aside the LGTB-phobia, will continue, will not again be cruel to transgender people and will not continue to represent the involution of civil rights. Moving on to another order of things, let's make history. The fight against LGTBI discrimination begins with the Equal Marriage Act in 2005 and the Gender Identity Act in 2007 and continues with the proposal of a socialist comprehensive law on equal treatment. This fight against discrimination continues with the law of my group through the reform of Law 3/2007, which regulates the registrar's rectification of the reference to persons. This initiative, registered months before the proposal before us, recognizes transgender minors and transgender the right to the rectification of the mention concerning sex and name, abolishes the pathologization and recognizes the right to the change of registered sex to intersex persons and also the right to the change of sex of foreign persons residing in Spain. Finally, I must point out that this journey against discrimination is going to move forward with the impetus of the proposed law before us, as it is an initiative that seeks to ensure that the rights recognized are realized and that no LGBT person is discriminated against or excluded. As a result, we can state that all the above-mentioned initiatives constitute the common minimum standard of anti-discrimination law, an anti-discrimination right of inescapable necessity, since the fight against discrimination lies not only in the recognition of the problem, but in the real and effective protection of the victims. This is the story and in it are carved Carla Antonelli and Ángeles Álvarez, because we, and the socialists, as I said, have indicated and started the path towards the real and effective recognition of the civil rights LGBTBI putting our country at the forefront of the global fight against discrimination. But we do not sympathize with the normative and social advances in respect for sexual diversity, because we are aware that, despite this, the episodes of LGTB-phobia continue and that further progress in civil rights requires society to overcome prejudices and stereotypes anchored in the past. MPs and MPs, LGBTI people cannot continue to pay a mortgage of hatred and discrimination. Focusing on the proposal before us, we have no doubt that the Socialist Group will vote in favour of taking this proposal into consideration, and in order to reach this conclusion we do not need prior written agreements or signing a thousand papers to achieve and continue the commitment to the fight for civil rights LGBTI. We Socialists have done it, we do it and we will continue to do it; let no one have any doubts. Without prejudice to our vote in favour, we cannot forget that this proposal requires technical and legal improvements, and this will be our contribution: making the precise amendments so that the legislative text is more coherent, more cohesive and more in line with the law. We now announce that we will table an amendment to delete the articles relating to the reform of the above-mentioned Law 3/2007, since, as we have indicated, my group has previously registered an initiative in the same sense as the proposal before us, and we pledge that it will soon be discussed in this House, and that, ladies and gentlemen, the approval of this reform is urgent; there are many transgender and transgender boys and girls waiting for it as a table of salvation. All these issues have been transferred to the FELGTB and the proposing group, which have shown their agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion I would like to make a request: let us build a more decent world, where - as former Minister Gabilondo says - the right to be different is recognized without distinction of rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u50	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u51	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by welcoming the representation of the State Federation of Lesbians, Gais, Transexuals and Bisexuals, which accompanies us today in the guest gallery and to whom corresponds the authorship of the text of the proposed law which we are discussing today. Ladies and gentlemen, article 14 of the Spanish Constitution states that all Spaniards are equal before the law, without any discrimination on the grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other condition. Article 9.2 also empowers the public authorities to remove obstacles preventing or limiting such freedom and equality. Under this principle, many laws have already been passed in our country that have specifically affected the achievement of effective equality of women or persons with disabilities, to name but two examples. We continue to make progress in the field of anti-discrimination legislation with firm steps and, fortunately, this path no longer has to be reversed. Today's text presented to us by the United Parliamentary Group We can fully guarantee the right to real equality of gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, transgender and intersex people, as well as their descendants, to ensure that diversity can be lived in our country with full freedom regardless of each other's sexual orientation and gender identity. This is a very laudable objective which is unfortunately intended to be achieved with a clumsy text in the form and substance, in its wording and in its proposals, in the definition of the situations it wishes to change, in the dangerous mandates it sets out and in the violations of rights it incurs. Unite Podemos has registered - since it has been the parliamentary group - a chapucero document, from which at least it could have corrected the lack of spelling, the poor syntax or even the errors in which it falls, claiming, for example, to repeal articles of laws that are no longer in force, reiterating the recognition of rights that are already established or recalling obligations that are already covered by different legal rules at this time. [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] It gives the sincere feeling that the United We can not be too interested in the subject, but thanks to the democratic system that they so much deny they can bring these texts to the House and discuss them, something they could not do, for example, in Iran, one of their favorite countries, where homosexuality is condemned with the most serious penalties. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] Of far greater gravity than what has already been said, some of the measures seem to us to have very serious effects if they were to be put into effect with a view to achieving that objective. It is clear that the fight against discrimination is always a complex task, but the legal response has to be proportional and above all the punitive response, and this proposed law does not present proportional but extremely risky responses, which violate the rights of other people other than their subjects. I will mention just a few that show that, seeking to combat discrimination, what would be achieved would be the establishment of watertight compartments that would deepen much more in that same discrimination. It is, for example, an obligation for all administrations to ensure that administrative documentation in all areas of this Act is appropriate to sexual and gender diversity, but the Organic Data Protection Act - this Act is organic - provides that personal data may only be collected when appropriate, relevant and non-excessive in relation to the scope and purposes for which they have been obtained; that is, in no case can an Administration or organization collect data on the diversity or sexual orientation of such members, since this is a violation of the right to privacy of persons, and I do not believe that their lordships want this to be modified by an alleged improvement in equality. [[Applauds]] The priority given to access to certain rights and aid granted to LGBTI people in relation to the rest - access to housing, transfers of work places, changes in working hours - seems to us to be at least controversial and their preference for access to such aid should be linked to factors different from their diversity or sexual orientation, as this segmentation would obviously again lead to more discrimination. It is also proposed that transgender and transgender persons be considered in all labour legislation as persons at risk of social exclusion. This unfortunate reference could even be described as stigmatizing, again proving that a text which seeks to eliminate discrimination contains in itself proposals which would further stigmatize those who in theory seek to benefit. The diversity of sexual orientation, gender expression and gender identity is a reality that must be protected from discrimination, but it is difficult to promote it in education, culture, sport, leisure or leisure as the text claims. We understand that this is another unfortunate mistake and that what is obviously being promoted is equality and the absence of discrimination. In conclusion, by its importance, I would like to refer to two crucial issues in the proposed text. First, the creation of a new administrative body, the State anti-discrimination agency, which has extensive powers to punish violations detected through individual complaints against administrations, organizations, enterprises, the media, political parties or individuals. The fines that could be imposed would amount to EUR 45 000 in the event of recidivism. The proposal is very descriptive about the intensity with which any support that would have been used to send a discriminatory message should be removed, to such an extent that it causes a certain surprise, even fear, to the reader to read this paragraph. Confiscation, destruction, unutilization, removal of contents, blocking, interruption, are the words used. It seems as if any vestige had to be erased from the face of the earth. Secondly, I would like to highlight the treatment given to minors in the proposal. The proposal includes, first of all, the descendants of LGBTI persons, which are legally very dubious, and provides that, from the age of sixteen, a minor who is transsexual or transgender may by himself give informed consent to access surgical sexual reassignment and that from puberty - another term that is not legally precise - he may give consent without authorization from the parents to receive hormonal treatments. I do not believe that there is anyone in this Chamber who does not worry about what the absence of parents means in the decision of a son or daughter to go through an operating room for that reassignment, just as children of eleven, twelve or thirteen years of age can make the decision of themselves to begin hormonal medication without the consent of their parents is simply inadmissible. That is why our group, with the utmost respect for the federation responsible for the text that we are considering today and attributing to the parliamentary group that brings it to this House today a large part of its errors, which should have been corrected as part of its parliamentary work, expresses its strong opposition to the text presented. However - I am sorry, Mrs García Puig and Mrs Galovart, to have spoiled your speech a little - we will abstain in the vote, since we will present an amendment to the whole with an alternative text, a general anti-discrimination law that includes the grounds for discrimination and organizes the response according to the same types and the competences of the central, local and autonomous administrations for the adequate protection of LGBTI people and their rights without prejudice to the rights of other people. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u52	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u53	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. I would like to remind you once again that there are no videos or photographs in the Chamber. I remember it because in the last intervention there have been photographs and videos that have been taken from the front row by people who have dropped out of their seat. I won't say it again. Next time I will use what the Rules attribute to the Presidency to call the order and expel from the Chamber the person who uses the photograph or the video. No law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on abusive rents, guarantees for tenants and small owners and public rental park. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u54	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. I would like to begin by denouncing the attacks on civil liberties that the Government of the State is carrying out in Catalonia. Their powerlessness and lack of capacity to understand this country has led them to have to violate fundamental rights in order to impose their will. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u55	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u56	Many of us are very critical of the Government of the Generalitat, but in the face of its threats, in the face of its repression, in the face of its attack on freedoms, we have no doubt where we have to be: defending fundamental rights, as we have always been. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I am going with the subject that we bring to the plenary, a non-legislative proposal on the violation of the right to housing and in particular to address the issue of rents. As you see, with this Government it is impossible to stop talking about violations of rights. There would be much to say about how for years from institutions, and indeed from most instances of power, real estate speculation was encouraged... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u57	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u58	... or the urban ball, and in the meantime we were repeating phrases like: rent is to throw the money, in Spain we carry the property in DNA, etc. But as my time is very limited, I will focus on reviewing some of the disastrous rental-related housing policies carried out by Mariano Rajoy's successive governments. Since 2013, we have had an accumulated cut of almost 40% in those already underfunded state housing plans. Rent subsidies are announced as long as your budget is cut. Conclusion: for the time being it seems that aid, if in the end it exists, will be ridiculous. [[The lady]] Tax subsidies on purchases are billionaires, ten times higher than tax subsidies on rents, even twice the budget allocated to the entire State Housing Plan. In 2015 they fulminated the basic income of emancipation, fulminated the tax subsidies to the people who live on rent and drastically cut those subsidies that were for the owners who put their apartments for rent. But if there is one thing to highlight in the matter of rents is undoubtedly the latest reform of the Urban Leases Act that they carried out in 2013. Just a year earlier, evictions reached a record number in this country; people were stopping evictions with their bodies every day in the streets and in the neighborhoods. Financial institutions had a stock of flats that knew they could no longer sell and, of course, saw a million-dollar business that had led hundreds of thousands of families to the street. At that time, no one in the PP government came to the conclusion that that was a good opportunity to drive a public park - which we did not have - that would respond to the emergency of thousands of evicted families. No one was left with the head to lay the foundations for a new housing access model based on rent at affordable prices for most. What happened to her then Minister of Development, Ana Pastor, was to present a reform of the LAU that, according to her own proud words in the plenary, would serve to speed up the rental evictions, to boost the market, increase the supply and lower prices. Pure rhetoric of the bubble in full burst of it. Honestly, I don't know how they could say those things and stay so wide. What is the rent situation after that reform and after four years? It turns out that for what has served this reform has been to further curtail the rights of tenants; to virtually end judicial guarantees to deal with evictions; to cut leases from five to three years and make it even more difficult for people to build their life plan by living on rent and, of course, to approve new fiscal privileges for the Socimi, which are those investment companies that are, incidentally, dedicated to investing exclusively in rental properties. Also -surprise!-, we still have no public park. It is even embarrassing to compare ourselves to countries in our European environment. We need more than two million public rental homes if we want to reach just 10% of the park, so you better not remember the 9000 Social Fund homes too much because it is a shame - to put it mildly - that is a shame. It also happens that the official figures for 2012 said that the rented houses reached 20.8% and in 2016, after their major reform, there are 22.8%, a small increase that is neither significant nor only attributable to that reform; so that there is going to be more offer, lie! It also turns out that rent prices in several cities in the state have risen by an average of 15% only last year, while wages obviously have not risen but, in any case, dropped; so that the prices are going to be lower, another lie! And don't tell us this is a tourist problem because it's not. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u59	Your Honor, excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a deep murmur that makes it impossible for the speaker to concentrate. Please, keep your tone down a little bit. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u60	And don't tell us that this is a tourist problem because it isn't; the problem is to have created a legal framework that favors renting today as a first level speculative good that gives much more profitability than other investments. Rental contracts are short, without guarantees for those who rent, they end quickly and can easily be altered, either for tourism, for the second residence, for people with high incomes, no matter. While hundreds of thousands of families can't afford to pay rents that drive them out of their neighbourhoods, we've seen that just a few weeks ago BBVA, Santander and Acciona have created the State's largest Socimi, because they know the business is there and you've facilitated it. You have worked politically to ensure that this country is in line with Europe in policies that promote affordable, stable and guaranteed rent, and precisely for that reason, we already need new legal tools to reverse this situation. And for this we propose measures that are already working in countries such as France, Holland, Germany, Austria - surely will blow their heads off because I have not said Venezuela or Iran, but yes, they do exist - and do not think to argue that what happens is that in those countries the housing is more expensive. A little serious because, for starters, this statement is not true in many cases, but it is that if we compare ourselves we will have to compare housing aid, social benefits, wages, etc., etc. In short, what we propose and need is to carry out legislative reforms so that municipalities with strong rent price increases can act to regulate these abusive rents. This is an essential tool to prevent popular and middle classes from being expelled from their homes because they are unable to cope with new contracts. And that no one can think of saying that this means intervening in the market and that this cannot be. The real estate market is an intervened market: tax aid, rescued banks, the Sareb, the Socimi; the real estate market is fully regulated, the important issue is who we want to benefit from this regulation. We must reverse the recent and disastrous reforms of the LAU. We have to help small owners to rent their flats at affordable prices and with security and guarantees. We are the only group in this House that proposes that the new state housing plan include support in this regard. Besides, we have to end the Socimi's tax privileges that they want to speculate about the rent. Do we want to give tax benefits? All right, but let's do it only with those companies that rent with guarantees and at affordable prices. These are some of the measures that much of the citizenry and also many municipalities demand. In fact, this non-law proposal reflects many of the rental proposals that are coming to Congress with the proposed law that the Mortgage Affected Platform is working with all groups. There is a majority in this House who can carry out these long-awaited proposals. We must work together to reverse the policies of the PP and guarantee the right to housing. Therefore, we hope that both this non-law proposal and the forthcoming PAH housing bill will come forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs Martín González. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, in whose turn it will also fix its position, first of all, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, we have not had a return to the amendment tabled. We therefore call for a vote on points in the motion and, if that is not possible, we shall abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro i Buldo. For the same group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Spain accounts for 9% of the population of the European Union, but it concentrates no less than 31% of empty housing. Sad given in a country that, according to our Constitution, is shaped as a social and democratic state because every empty house represents a slap in the face to the millions of people for whom it is impossible to access a space where to live in conditions of minimally acceptable comfort and stability. Compromís is going to support this non-law proposal because it points to the essence of this very serious problem. Speculation is the origin of the present famine and also of the insecurity in which those who have voluntarily opted for rent as a more interesting and flexible formula than property move. We are told that the real estate market is governed by supply and demand. False. Mainly it is governed by the frequent collision of interests between some entrepreneurs and some political representatives who are unloving to the public service and who are reluctant to tackle the speculative movements that provoke the expulsion of numerous neighbors from the neighborhoods where they have lived their whole lives. Between 2013 and 2016, six out of ten evictions were made by tenants, when it turns out that in Spain less than 25% of the population lives on rent. Renting was not a bubble, it is a time bomb that implies that talking about renting in Spain unfortunately means talking about poverty, unprotectiveness, precariousness and insecure prices for the interprofessional minimum wage. But when we talk about rent we also talk about poverty in another sense, about the conceptual poverty of a capitalism of friends that is based not on the creation of wealth and innovation, but on the pure and simple exploitation of the need of others through privileged bonds with power. It is the case, for example, of the sale of social flats to vulture funds or it is the case of the tax reform of the government that adapted the rules of the game to the interest of the Socimi. This non-legislative proposal is moderate in its proposals; some of them only seek to restore the existing legality until recently and other measures only abound in elementary points of transparency and control, proper to a democratic society. In this proposal we need to talk, for example, about the need to ensure that everyone has access to a rent that does not exceed 30 per cent of their monthly disposable income or also about measures to ensure that the evicted can remain at home, as provided for, for example, by the new Valencian Law on the Social Function of Housing, recently promulgated by the Government of Progress, which is at the head of the Valencian Generalitat. In any case, this non-legislative proposal undoubtedly represents a good step forward and for this reason Compromís will support it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller i Ruiz. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romingera Salazar has the floor. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u66	Good afternoon and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Let me go ahead with my total disagreement over the lack of respect and contempt for the debate and the work of the Committee on Development, which is the fact that we can resubmit the same non-legislative proposal from the Confederal Group of the United States, which was presented at the previous Committee on Development on 28 June. Three months ago, Mrs Martín, you will recall that we in the Commission, with 20 votes in favour, adopted this same non-legislative proposal, the same, with the same explanatory part and the same operative part. But in addition, the text that was finally put to the vote was negotiated on the basis of a series of amendments that my group tabled. It was a text that was adopted on the basis of the work, debate and goodwill of those who, from the Commission, tried to put an end to the serious problem that for a large part of the citizenry meant that they could not have access to housing, a home or fear of being evicted because they could not afford to pay rent and be seen, together with their families, on the street. It seems, seeing as they repeat the initiatives - as they are doing now - although they are approved, which in an opportunistic way are using these people over and over again to make politics. Ladies and gentlemen, your group has not taken account of the work, so what has been approved here has not served them at all. They have considered that it was invalid and therefore, surely - because they have not yet explained to us why - they bring it back here and in the same terms. But that contempt is no different from that expressed by the Government, gentlemen of the People's Party, which, despite having on the table an agreement of the Commission calling on them to adopt a series of measures to facilitate citizens' access to housing - in this case under rental conditions - ignore, so that it is as if this non-law proposal had never been voted on and had never been endorsed by the majority of the members of the Commission. That is why I say, Mrs Martín, that you have done the same thing as the People's Party: to reject the agreement that we adopted in the Commission and that is why you are putting forward the same initiative again. In any case, the important thing is that we must bear in mind that in Spain we suffer a serious imbalance in relation to housing; a serious imbalance that must be corrected now and that it is a consequence of the intense and prolonged boom in the real estate sector which, mainly aimed at housing on property, has caused very high rates of indebtedness for both companies in the sector and for many families, especially for the most vulnerable, for those who have limited resources, who have great difficulties in accessing a home and who, given their precarious jobs and low wages - if they are not unemployed - demand access to housing, mostly for rent. Faced with this, they have a low supply, with the consequent increase in rental prices, especially in large cities and those that are classified as tourist destinations. In addition, the withdrawal of housing from the rental market must be added to this in order to be used for sale as a result of the price upturn. According to the latest data we have, the housing price has risen to this date by almost 8%, so the solution, as already done by the government in the mid-eighties, goes through the promotion of rented housing because at present, according to the National Institute of Statistics, the housing park for rent in Spain is 22.7% compared to 55% in Switzerland or almost 48% in Germany. That is why we must learn from the rest of Europe and, moreover, we must go further and have a social housing stock for rent, with moderate and rational rents to meet the needs of those households with less resources, so we must bet once and for all, ladies and gentlemen, on the social character of housing. That is why we have to bet, because, look, housing is a fundamental right - I am not tired of repeating it every time I come up to this rostrum - and that is what the Charter of Rights of the citizen of the European Union recognises. It is therefore the duty of the public authorities to facilitate and guarantee this right, and to this end the promotion of the rental figure is an important tool. For this reason, three months ago we considered that the non-legislative proposal put forward by Unite Podemos in the Commission for Development and Housing could be another step towards ensuring access to housing. And like then, we also now believe that some aspects of the proposal put forward by the Confederal Group must be changed, especially in order to guarantee both the rights of the tenant and those of the tenant - we too, Mrs Martín, make proposals in favour of the tenants - and in order to reconcile the right to property with the right to housing and thus promote in a sensible way the rent, with particular attention to social rent. In this respect, our amendments are in place, and they are reflected in the text that we have tried in the past. We hope that this will be reflected in the operative part of the agreement that is put to the vote today, because otherwise we will not be able to vote in favour of it, since the agreements adopted by this House on this subject on 28 June would be further distorted. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Romingera. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the same happens to me as to the previous speaker, and it is that my first intervention was to be aimed precisely at talking about the inopportunity of this non-law proposal. On 28 June, in the Committee on Development, we had the opportunity to analyse this same non-law proposal, identical word-for-word, in which, in fact, a certain demonstration took place, also on the basis of a compromise proposal which exercised what was provided for in article 66.2 of the Constitution, which is the role of control by the House towards the Government. Well, now we're in a rather strange situation. What is going to happen today and what happens then with this action of control, of positive control, because the action of the follow-up and impulse of government action is also a control action and can have two different tones or two directions? In the past, the Government was urged to go in favour of the owners, the tenants of dwellings in a certain sense, and today we do not know what is going to happen. We therefore understand that it is, first, inappropriate; secondly, wrong and, thirdly, with all due respect, I believe that it is still a lack of respect for the actions and powers of this House to reproduce literally an action that has already been approved by another body of Congress. In spite of this, we find again this text on which we had a favourable opinion at the time, but on which we also have a critical vocation because we do not agree with all the points. At the time we did not agree with all its points, although we then understood that a number of recommendations should be addressed to the Government. Today we are not going to do this in the same direction because the proposal, being different from that adopted in some parts, proposes the same measures, but, first of all, it is interfering, to say the least, in the area of the competences of local corporations. Look, if there is something positive about this proposal and we support it at the moment, it proposes that the only measure, in our opinion, that is effective in the field of housing rental as a market regulator, and is the existence of a public housing park. In that sense, that part of the proposal is to redirect to the municipalities the possibility of analysing whether or not such leases are abusive when in reality that is an area more concerned with competition or consumer issues than with housing itself. If we agree to encourage the role of the municipalities - we believe that it is necessary to do so - it must be done on the basis of certain powers, those provided for in Article 25.2(d) of the Regulation of the bases of the local regime, which allow action in a number of houses, but also that which allows intervention in economic activities, which are precisely those aimed at obtaining certain public housing parks, which should be promoted. How? Here comes into play another of the proposals of the non-law proposal, which is the creation of the public housing park and the performance through the State Housing Plan. In Euskadi, however, there is already a precedent for all the actions proposed: the creation of the housing stock, the facilitation of rent rentals and the proposal to bail-holders or other precautions that allow for a period of time to ensure the survival of rents of a social nature through public society Etxebide or Etxegintza in some cases. Then the second conclusion - the first is the existence of the housing park - is that we must strengthen that field of action that is really effective and what is really effective are the local corporations when they have the means to sustain a housing park. We will then make the Housing Plan, if created, municipal in nature so that these are the regulators of the rental market. That is the next question. With all due respect, as regards the proposals you have made in the second point, some of us like it and some of us do not. As regards the existence of guarantees, there is a small error. It is not the Urban Leases Act, which merely contemplates the possibility of eviction, but the Civil Prosecutions Act which contemplates guarantees for both the lessor and the lessee. In that regard, I concur with the analysis made by the representative of the PSOE. There is a need to provide guarantees, but they already exist as a result of the application of the oral procedure of 250.1 of the Civil Prosecution Act. It may have to be modified in some way, but they do exist. The great problem of evictions is not the existence of a procedure; they are not procedural vices, but vices of the functioning of the courts, of their delay. That's the main cause. On the other hand, I would like to be a bit critical of the five-year extension of the lease term. With all due respect, we believe that it does not have to be effective, but that it is already effective in regulating the housing market. In any case, with a precedent, it was unnecessary to have done so in this way. As there are areas in which we are critical, we cannot show the same conformity, so in this case, ladies and gentlemen, we are obliged to abstain in this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u69	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to everyone and to all the heroic Members who are today witnessing this debate on such a transcendental issue for the people who voted for us, such as that of housing. Thank you very much. Today we are discussing a non-United States proposal on unfair rents and guarantees for tenants. In short, so that everyone who may be listening to us understands it, an initiative to avoid evictions. According to the data of the General Council of the Judiciary, 17,055 evictions took place in the Spanish State in the first quarter of 2017, an increase of 2,2 % compared to the previous year, of which 56,4 % responds to the procedures derived from the Urban Leasing Act, a fact that is particularly serious in Catalonia, with almost 22 % of the total state. For this reason, the Parliament of Catalonia adopted unanimously on 29 July - with this I want to say that they voted in favour of all political formations - the Law 24/2015, on urgent measures to deal with the housing emergency; a law which, during its implementation, allowed, for example, to paralyse 600 evictions in the city of Barcelona and which establishes mechanisms for guaranteeing a constitutional right such as the right to housing; a right, of course, which you have again trampled without any remorse. Law 24/2015, of the Parliament of Catalonia, recovers the expropriation of empty flats for the social rent and the relocation of the affected families who cannot pay the mortgage or the rent. This is a law that aims to improve and provide judicial guarantees to tenants. However, the insensitivity of the People's Party to protect the most affected by an unbridled crisis that has decimated the middle class and plunged into poverty many of the popular classes, along with the political-judicial symbiosis with which the Constitutional Court appears to act, suspended the Catalan law in June 2016 and, worst of all, with the argument that they protect the equality of the Spanish. But, gentlemen, would it not be easier to propose the same law for the entire Spanish population? Why do we have to equal down? Of course, we also thank you, gentlemen of the People's Party: your constant trampling on Catalan self-government, together with your social insensitivity, are more effective than any independent political act. You are a machine to manufacture independenceists under the cynicism of proclaiming that it acts to protect the equality of the Spaniards. Its functioning, based more on phobias and obsessions, has led the Catalan people to rise up and move forward to decide their future freely. There is no doubt that the Spanish State needs to guarantee the right to decent housing and, no doubt, this non-legislative proposal should be adopted. It is as true as Catalonia must freely decide its future. It is as true as that on 1 October we will be able to vote yes to the law of emergency housing, yes to a Catalan republic that guarantees the right to decent housing. It is as true as October 1st that we will be able to evict Rajoy from Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Surra. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Economist Assar Lindbeck - by the way, Swedish - once said that price controls are the best way to destroy a city, apart from bombing it. Indeed, there are few public policies that generate so much unanimity and consensus among experts in a negative sense, of course. Another economist with little suspicion of being neoliberal, Paul Krugman, has assured that there are few matters better studied in the economy and that a very broad consensus points - and I quote from the economist Paul Krugman - that limiting the price of rents reduces the quality and quantity of housing supply. Well, that's what you guys are coming with today. But if you don't trust the experts, and if you come to call everyone brother-in-law with such a passion, let me at least show you one thing. [[Show a map]] Like me, surely many of you will not know Swedish and I will explain to you what this is. This is a brochure from the Stockholm Municipal Housing Agency and these numbers you see, 1020, 79, are the average years it takes an applicant to get a rental home in Stockholm. For example, in the centre, as I say, there is an average waiting period of between ten and twenty years and on the outskirts of Stockholm, between seven and nine years. On the waiting list there are people who have been wearing since 1989, that is, when the Berlin wall fell or when the return to the future II was opened. Do you imagine you've been waiting ever since? Well, ladies and gentlemen, these are the consequences of controls and price limits like the ones you bring us here. Your star proposal is indeed that the municipalities be given the capacity to limit the price of rents, that is, given the manifest inability of the municipalities of the change - from the change to the worst, of course - of Mrs Carmena and Mrs Colau in Madrid and Barcelona to fulfill what they have now promised to solve the problem by limiting the price by law, as if you could abolish reality by decree. This solution they are proposing is not such. Firstly, for a matter of form, because they do not even define when a rental is abusive or excessive, but also for a matter of substance, since it would further harm the collectives you seek to defend: setting a maximum price per area would create a black rental market that would further exclude lower rents, since it is the most natural way for the market to adjust to the new reality, and would encourage the holiday rental market by preferring owners to charge per room rather than per house, avoiding the application of the decree of the maximum price. The other star measure they propose to us is to expropriate the homes of the large forks of empty homes. For you expropriation is the solution, as your friends from other latitudes do. Obviating the fact that we don't know what you consider great forks, do you really think those great forks have the floors closed because they want to? No; those big forks would want to make money and have open and rented those floors. The price of rent has risen in the last few days due to several factors: the recovery of employment - a timid recovery upwards in wages - the renewal of those rents that were signed in the harshest time of the recession, a shortage of newly built housing, the conditions now required by banks to lend mortgages and, to a lesser extent - because this affects a very limited sector and very limited areas - tourist flats. That is true, you in Barcelona are limiting the creation of new hotel licenses with what still favors more that there are tourist flats and that, therefore, the rents go up. The truth is that the measures you propose are totally contradictory. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen - and with this I am finishing - in order to lower rental prices - we agree that we must do this - we must act on the offer; we must increase the rental housing stock so that prices fall, we must consider the measures necessary to increase the supply of new housing for sale and we must make it easier to promote housing and increase rent subsidies on the basis of income. In short, we will not support nightly and failed measures that have been proven over and over again not only useless but directly harmful, and we will not support this GNP to try to wash away the incompetence of the municipalities of Manuela Carmena and Ada Colau. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u74	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what this is? [[Show a brochure]] This is a document, a flyer of the Mortgage Affected Platform with its claims, with the objectives of this formation. Most of these demands are made by the parties on the left, but I have to tell you that it was the People's Party that has been solving one by one and effectively each of the housing problems that Spanish society has claimed. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I will read to you briefly and in your terms the demands of this platform: End the evictions. Finish the water, light and gas cuts. Get a decent and affordable rental. Let the public rental park expand. Let the banks return the stolen one. To put an end to life-long mortgage debts. And finally, housing as a right. What has the People's Party done about this? We've put a stop to the evictions. We've stopped the evictions. They're down 26.2%. This is the down payment for July 2017. We have just launched two decrees, in 2012 and 2013, on the protection of mortgage debtors, and the last one this year, in March 2017, from which more than 45,000 families have benefited. The social bonus, to which 2.4 million households can be accommodated. Laws of flexibility of the rental market. Housing plans. But it is clear that there are two demands of this organization that we cannot agree with: to call bank robbers, because we are not the ones to issue such judgments, and to free you from life-long mortgage debts, because we understand that whoever incurs a mortgage debt incurs a payment obligation, unless due to circumstances he loses that home and, then, yes, we will have to help him and guarantee him a decent home. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve these objectives, we are realizing that there are two types of proposals. The first is that only mine is worth, I make deaf ears to the work of others and to the Constitution itself. And the second, work, I put in place measures, I see how they work and I continue to work to guarantee those constitutional rights, such as the right to housing and the right to property. That's what the People's Party does. There is no doubt that this GNP, ladies and gentlemen, is well-intentioned, so well-intentioned that it fully coincides with a main and priority objective of our housing plans, both the existing one extended, 2013-2016, and the one under development, 2018-2021: encouraging the housing stock for rent, both public and private. It should also be said that more than 240 000 families have benefited from aid under the 2013-2016 plan and 100 000 more will benefit from the extension of this plan by 2017. [[The lady]] With regard to the housing plan that we are developing for 2018-2021, which you already know the first version of, it must be said that it is the most social plan in history; that is, of ten programmes it has, six are of social rents of a different nature and with different amounts and will ensure that everyone has a decent housing; in fact, they also know that emphasis is placed on a specific programme of assistance aimed at families in the process of eviction, whether foreclosure or rental, to which all housing holders can adhere, from the Sareb to small owners. With regard to lease conditions, it is clear that improvements can be made, but in the sense of flexibility and not from the premise of market intervention, of price intervention. The final solution to what you are proposing, apart from the measures we have already taken to make the market and housing plans more flexible, is to boost the economy and continue to create jobs and that no aid should be given. That is what the People's Party is working tirelessly for. Ladies and gentlemen, intervening in the rental market is an absolutely simplistic solution that has historically not worked where it has been implemented, when there are many more factors to study and solutions must go through healthy coexistence between the different urban activities, the different modes of rental and also the Socimi, which enhance and raise the real estate market. And the involvement, of course, of the self-governments and local entities, which are really competent to do so. We note that these measures, ladies and gentlemen, are a step backwards from those which the People's Party is already implementing and which are already shown to guarantee the increase in the rental housing stock and a flexible balance between tenants and tenants. That is why, although we seem well-intentioned in some respects, we cannot share these measures and we will vote against them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u75	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Martín González whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u76	We are just talking; that is, that in principle no one does.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u77	Thank you. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT IN THE DEFENCE OF THE STATE OF LAW IN CATALUNIA. [[File number 162/000459]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u78	No bill proposed by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on institutional support for the defence of the rule of law in Catalonia. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u79	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, citizens who follow us in this session, our country is certainly facing the greatest challenge to the constitutional order that we have lived in democracy since 23 February 1981. The Spanish democracy then had to defend itself in this same Chamber against those who did not respect the Constitution, against those who struck democracy and against those who did not understand that in Spain of 1981, Spain of democracy, no military, but also today no politician, is above the law. And today I think it is welcome and it is fair in democracy that if Spanish democracy is being struck all the powers of the state, together, we defend and defend the Spanish citizens. That is why in Citizens - the truth is that we have been surprised that, before what we are living, no one has raised a debate like this a few days from that coup to democracy on October 1 and 3, - we thought it was convenient. And I tell you one thing: this proposal, which has four points you will probably have read, which is simple and which any Democrat can subscribe to, basically what he wants is to support the Spanish Executive by this House - which is the Spanish Legislative Power - and the judiciary: the prosecutors, the judges, the police, the officials, the mayors, the councillors, the Democrats who are ultimately defending Spanish democracy in my land in Catalonia today. That is why I think we need to seek a broad consensus in this House so that the Spanish legislature can tell the Executive to act to defend democratic law, to do so, and to have the support of this House. And also to the judiciary, despite being separate powers, because together we defend the rule of law. Our goal is to defend those four points, which I summarize very quickly so as not to waste the little time I have. The first is support for the explicit executive branch of the legislative branch, and for the judiciary, prosecutors, judges and officials who these days defend democracy in Catalonia. The second of these points refers in particular to public servants. Today, those who defend democracy in Catalonia are being harassed... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u80	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u81	... They're signaling him. They're telling the cops where they're staying so they can go boycott them. They're incriminating mayors, councillors, their children in schools, and that can't happen in democracy. That is why the Spanish legislature has to defend democratic values in Catalonia and in any corner of Spain without complexes, with serenity but with strength. The third point also seems absolutely necessary to me: that public money should not be allocated to what a court has considered suspended, to what it says is not within the law at this time until the sentence is resolved. Therefore, let not a euro of public money be allocated to the political act - which is not a referendum - which they are going to try to hold on 1 October. We do not want to use Spanish public money, of all Spaniards, of Catalans, which most are not separatists, to break the coexistence in Catalonia and to break Spain. That simple. And the fourth point is a recognition to all those Catalans who respect others, to all those Catalans who, even if we don't think alike, even if there are people who are independentist and others who aren't, we respect each other, that we don't go to the door of a school to harass their children, that we don't go to the door of a city council to mount a democrat's chicken, that we don't chase cops or mossos or civilian guards, the explicit recognition of this House to all of them because those Catalans represent the dignity of Spain, those Catalans represent the best at this time in our country. [[Applauds]] Finally, there is one point that seems fundamental to me, which is true that it is not written but is implicit in this proposal: we must regain Catalonia's autonomy. They've loaded it, they've liquidated it. Mr Puigdemont has liquidated the Statute of Autonomy in 48 hours; he has liquidated the Parliament, he has closed it, he is suspended until further notice; they have suspended the ordinary control session of the Parliament of Catalonia; they have trampled on the rights of opposition deputies one by one; they have liquidated the Council of State Guarantees and the Rules of the House; they have trampled on the Secretary General and officials. Gentlemen, we must defend our democracy, and here we will also do so with more democracy and democratic values. [[Applauds]] Therefore, today is not the day to look for discrepancies, which we have - it is clear that we are different groups -; today we do not ask for support from the PP, we ask for support from the Spanish Government, which in this case is occupied by the PP because it won the elections, and here I want to ask the Socialist Party specifically to please, until the last minute, try to support these four points that I am convinced - I say this wholeheartedly - that many public officials, socialist deputies and voters would also support if they were here. I am convinced that this unites us. And then there is one point that you propose: to agree with the nationalists on a political solution, as you say. I don't agree with that, but no matter what, I respect it. You want to agree with the nationalists a solution outside the Constitution or in another different framework; you want a nation of nations and I, a nation of citizens, but it doesn't matter, that doesn't matter today because we are together in the defense of democracy. That is why I say to you that, since most of your amendments have been accepted, with regard to the point that refers to the discrepancy that you have with the Government and with us, it is not time to look for the discrepancy. Most of your councillors, your voters - like ours - are defending and giving their faces in Catalonia today, so I think it is welcome that we give our hands today. [[Applauds]] We are convinced that this Constitution deserves reform and updating, and you too, and in that we can agree even more easily than with the People's Party, we recognize it, but today it is up to us to support the Executive. I tell you one thing, if the current government outside the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, Citizens would have tabled the same motion to support you. And if one day we Citizens rule, we would also like to have the support of the rest of the parties, so today is not the time for disagreement, today is not the time to break the union. [[A Member of Parliament: And why do you bring this?]] What are we bringing this for? To defend the union. If we are not able to vote on these four points, we have it very difficult to defend the democracy of this country. [[Applauds]] Those who do not agree to defend the current executive, the judiciary, the prosecutors, the judges, the police, the councillors, who do not agree with that, have it very complicated if one day they want to govern this country, so those who do aspire to a better country today we have to defend it without cracks, without points, without nuances. I have a project different from that of the People's Party or the Socialist Party, but in this we are together, and also our voters, and also - I am convinced - voters of other parties that are not going to support this motion today. Therefore, it is not a time for discrepancies; it is a time for union. That's four basic points. We accept virtually all the amendments that you put forward on legal issues, as regards the improvements you have made to the motion, but to agree with Puigdemont, to bring here today a pact with Puigdemont is not the way to get out of here together. The way is not to put that point that you intend to add and support the other six points that have been incorporated and that I recognise that you have improved the proposal, so I ask you to make an effort until the last minute. I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen, here some of us are not just playing Spanish democracy. Not only me, but many other Members of this House are playing with us to take away our nationality, to take away our constitutional rights, to take away our European citizenship. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Come on!-Other Members: Yes, yes!]] Remove it from your head: We will not allow you to take away our nationality; we will not allow you to do so. [[Applauds]] So we have a twofold cause: to defend Spanish democracy, and some, in self-defence, to defend ourselves from the coups, who want to take away nationality, rights and freedoms. We are citizens of Catalonia, we are Spanish citizens, we are European citizens and we will continue to be, so visca Catalunya, visca España and visca Europa! Thank you. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause from the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u82	Thank you very much. In defence of the Socialist Group's amendment, Mrs Batet Lamaña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u83	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of one of the greatest crises in the state, it would make every sense for this House to share that a moment of extreme gravity is being lived in Catalonia, that it would serve to share that politics is more necessary than ever, that it would serve to share that any solution and any proposal to reach that solution must contribute to social cohesion, to dialogue, to negotiation and, therefore, to resignations also in order to reach a consensus. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Congress of Deputies should serve to tell us among ourselves, to share among ourselves and with the entire society that listens to us that if we really want to solve this territorial crisis, we cannot be looking for winners and losers, we cannot be looking for winners and losers because that is a guarantee of leading us to failure. [[Applauds]] This would be a good start. My question is what is the purpose of this non-legislative proposal, why this initiative is being brought to this House. To get out in the picture? To feed the fronts? To feed blocks that in the end they do is to block the situation further? To divide us further, even among those we share essential elements? Let me tell you that, with your attitude, ladies and gentlemen of the citizens, of the proposing group, with this initiative and with others who have been brought to this House today, they do not exactly want to propose solutions or help social cohesion or help maintain a sincere and honest dialogue that goes to the bottom of the issue. There is absolutely nothing clear about this initiative. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, since the Government of the Generalitat and the parliamentary groups supporting it in the Parliament of Catalonia decided to violate legality, they decided to violate the Catalan and democratic institutions, they decided to violate the rights of parliamentarians, they finally decided to violate the rights and freedoms of all citizens of Catalonia, the Socialist Party and all socialists have been in the defence of democracy, in the defence of the rule of law and in the defence of legality, here in this rostrum, and in the gallery of the Parliament of Catalonia and, most importantly, what is more important, on the street side with our mayors, with our councillors and councillors, whose recognition today we call on this House to take place in the seat of popular sovereignty, because those mayors and mayors deserve this explicit recognition by this Congress of the deputies, and that is what our amendment proposes. [[Applauds]] But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rivera, there is one later, a post 1 October, where it is essential to open political solutions, where it is essential to create scenarios of dialogue, and the meaning of our amendment, like the proposal of our Commission, which fortunately has had the majority support today on the Board of Spokesmen - not of your parliamentary group but of the vast majority of groups in this House - is precisely to prevent us from being in the same situation on 2 October as we are today, which has led us here. Someone said today on the Board of Spokespersons about the Commission: We may not be right. And it's true, we may not be right, but as sure as we won't be right, it's not doing anything or debating nothing, which is what we're doing this afternoon. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative seems irresponsible to us in the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It seems irresponsible to us the attitude that the People's Party Government has maintained over all these years, which has definitely contributed to reaching this point, and irresponsibility, of course, capitalizes on the failure of legality and democracy on the part of those who govern Catalonia. But I summarize so as not to leave room for possible interpretations. Firstly, we are in the radical defense of the rule of law, of democracy and therefore of the legality that sustains it. Two, we support and call for the support of all those who today in Catalonia are defending the rights and freedoms that are born out of our democratic system, especially mayors and mayors. Three, we are facing a society divided by half on a crucial issue, Catalan society, Mr Rivera, and the only sensible thing when a society is divided is dialogue to forge consensus. It is not about winning for one more vote, it is about reaching consensus and then voting for that agreement. And four, while some today deny policy by denying the Commission and refusing to accept our amendment, we continue to make a determined bet on the search for dialogue, negotiation and agreement. There's no other way out. That's why we can't miss it, Mr. Rivera. I'm asking you for one last effort. Do politics, please. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez, first of all, has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u85	Madam President, thank you very much. Mrs Batet, in the matter of the secessionist coup in Catalonia either you are in the legal system or you are with the coupts. [[Applauds]] Either it is in the c ce of Constitution and coexistence or it is in the error of grudge, revenge and revolution. Either you're with democracy or you're with the breakup of Spain. Here they are not worth half ink, because the rest are cynical electoral calculations. Second consideration. You understand, ladies and gentlemen, the people who are here in Madrid and also the media, that nationalism wants to break up Spain. Do not have the tendency to Stockholm syndrome, to moderate nationalism, because it does not exist, because you want exactly the same as the Government of Catalonia. Finally, a statement in the few seconds that I have left, a strong statement by the Navarro People's Union: We are going to support, as we have always done, the decisions that the central government makes in the defence of our country, which is Spain, and have our full support, as does the vote in favour of the Citizens' Group in its non-law proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. If there was any doubt, it has become clear today that Citizens is the right wing, the extreme right of the People's Party They proclaim themselves liberal mouthpieces, but they do not worry about the limitation of fundamental rights and public freedoms in Catalonia. [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, at home we expect every six months the journal Ómnium Cultural, that entity that our parents and grandparents founded to fight against Francoism and for democracy, but this September the magazine Ómnium Cultural will not arrive because it has been requisitioned, because in Catalonia ideas are required, ideas are banned and the secrecy of postal communications is prohibited. [[Applauds]] Ideas, freedom of thought and expression, and freedom of assembly are prohibited.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u88	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u89	Reported media, banned websites, ladies and gentlemen. You have the great passion to denounce - and we too - the prohibition of websites in Turkey, but you forget to also defend respect for freedom of expression in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Unbelievably forbidden meetings like Sunday's, ladies and gentlemen: a judge forbids a meeting and many more people gather in Lavapiés. You, Lords of Citizens, want to put doors to the countryside and you know that this is not possible because millions of citizens have risen peacefully, civically, respectfully, with all their opinions. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: No, you!]] [[Rumors]] [[Señor Cantó García del Moral: Yes, yes, already...]] Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, we know perfectly well what it is to be a minority because for forty years we have tried to build, from our national minority status, a plurinational, pluricultural and plurilingual State that would capture the whole reality of Spain. And since this State has not accepted this plurality, many citizens have risen. By the way, about eight hundred mayors, none of Citizens, simply because Citizens have no mayor in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] One of the People's Party has not risen, because the People's Party has a mayor in Catalonia. [[Rumors]] Eight hundred mayors. By the way, the socialist mayors of Terrassa, Granollers and the mayor of Barcelona, to whom we thank this position, too. And they have said and we have said: we want to vote, we want democracy. You will not cancel with this policy of the People's Party Government what you, with all normality in the corridors and in parliamentary debates, call the Catalan challenge, the Catalan problem for so many years. They are going to make it grow more, they are going to release more the desire for freedom of the people of Catalonia, because for many years it has lacked politics on the part of the Government and today they lack courage and apply by the back door article 155 of the Constitution denying the finances of the Generalitat. [[Applauds]] Dialogue is appropriate at this end of the constitutional stage in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, in some parts of Catalonia it is said that you remember Santa Barbara only when it rains. You remember Santa Barbara only when it rains - have you understood it?-, which means that after seven years, in discount time, when we have tried everything..., [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u90	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u91	... when we proposed the pact, when in 2014 three Members of Parliament of Catalonia came up to this rostrum to propose a consultative referendum, their political response has always, always, been no. And as water always reaches the sea, the will of people to demonstrate democratically in a secret ballot box will also come and culminate. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality and, in view of this reality, take note of the fact that there is a people who respect minorities and the majority and who are convinced and determined to vote. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u92	Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' Group is coming to certify the People's Party's policy, the government's policy on the Catalonian issue. It comes to us to certify it and, moreover, to prove that they are more papists than the Pope, that you are the real ones, the hard ones, the ones who are going to make the Catalans understand. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: We are Catalans]] Yes, the Catalans who agree to make a referendum. Yes, of course, those you want to put on your waist, the parliamentary majority. Mr Girauta already said on Twitter: 'The balls - sorry, Madam President, but it is literal Twitter - in Catalonia we have put them. Not a Spanish lesson, okay?' That's Citizens: more papists than the Pope. [[Applauds]] And in the explanatory statement they say they act in defense of democracy. What can harm democracy more than the people can speak? That could have been facilitated and could have been agreed, an agreed referendum or other form of consultation, even if it was a consultative referendum. In the 21st century appeal only to force... [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] Yes, yes, you offer as a solution, literally, only the strength of the State. That's all they offer. I'm going to quote a phrase from Marcelo Bielsa, and I'm not doing it to relax the discussion, but because I think it's very good for the case. You talk about challenge and rebels. At a press conference, Mr. Marcelo Bielsa said: The rebels do not defy us, they are simply informing us. And to you, to this House and to the Government too, the people of Catalonia have been informing you for many months, for many years, telling you that there is a problem here and that we must find a solution. And what happened? Brushed by statute, do not address the whole issue of funding, etc., and a number of contempts as saying: shut up, you; you have nothing to say because here is the majority of the House. I remind you of what the anthem of Catalonia says, Els Segadors: It will make these people so ufana and so superb! [[Applauds]] That is what a majority of the Catalan people feel today, that they are treated with pride, with discretion and telling them what they have to do, and that is what a majority of Catalans, even those who do not agree with independence, do not want. You made a speech today rather addressed to the Socialist Party, but on Diada Day you made a very important speech, there you said very clear and interesting things. He literally said, Mr. Rivera, are we going to hand over the keys to education, to unchecked public services? No one's been monitoring what was going on in education, on public television. You, Mr Rivera, were not referring to the Parliament of Catalonia, which, in any case, would be under your control as representative of the Catalan people; no, you were referring to the Spanish Government. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures]] Yeah, yeah, 'cause I was talking about the nationalists. What do you mean, control? Parliamentary control? If you believe your own Constitution, it will have to be taken by the Catalan Parliament, not this House. [[Applauds]] Nice concept of democracy. Another pearl: We will not accept thirty years more the tactics of appeasement, cesions and blackmail. Hey, do you think that there has been no blackmail on the part of the State by cutting, for example, competences that were already discussed and approved in the statutes? That there has been no appeasement on the part of the nationalists at the time also, yes, of making divestitures and finding agreements so that things would not jump into the air? But what do you think you are? That the state here has not assaulted covenants that it had already signed and that were voted for by the people? You're a manicos. He says that the problem of nationalism - Catalan and Basque nationalism is supposed to be incompatible with democracy, he says that nationalist values are supremacism, imposition, selfishness and division. If you are pleading here to impose and not to reach an agreement, if you have even told the Socialist Group! [[Applauds]] No one here wants to take away his nationality. Here what we want is for everyone to feel what they want and whether one feels only Basque or Catalan can be Basque and can say that one's nation is Basque or Catalan. [[Applauds]] You will indeed break the state itself with this language, a language - let me tell you this - of a large and free one, with a message that is wrapped in cellophane of social progress. We already know that from some political groups of other times but from this very House. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Sabino Arana]] I conclude, Madam President. You say: When all this happens it will be a measles that happened. Well, we've been with measles for centuries, and the problem or the issue in Catalonia and in Euskadi isn't fixed. I too would like the Spanish measles and centralist to disappear, but I fear it will not disappear overnight; no, it will not end. Political solutions and dialogue will therefore have to be addressed. You and your policies of imposition and uniforming are not the balm to achieve coexistence and respect for the will of the Catalan people; will that, by the way, you do not even want to know in case it is not the same as yours. [[Applauds]] In short - and now I am finished, Madam President, really - the measures of the Government, in our view, are not the right ones. He's been unattending alarm lights and warnings from Catalonia for years. Politics and dialogue are necessary and, above all, at the end, whether they want it or not, they will have to listen to the voice of the people of Catalonia. You're going to get these people so hungry and so gorgeous! Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group and a number of ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u94	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u95	Very late, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Rivera, you are a crusader of nationalism, of your nationalism, because you confuse nationalism with independence, which are different things, as you know or should know. Tell me, Mr Rivera, what do you call ideas that proclaim that Spain must remain as it has been for three centuries and that this must continue for centuries because it is a nation? What do you call a Constitution that affirms that the geographical integrity of the Spanish nation will be guaranteed by the army? What would you call ideas that can't even consent to the idea that Spain can be different from what it is today and that prevents Catalans from voting to know if we want, or want, to be part of Spain or not? Isn't that nationalism? Spanish nationalism, but nationalism. And yes, you, Mr Rivera, are nationalist, as are your friends of the People's Party, of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and even as it is a part of the comrades of the United We Can, but the comrades of the United We Can, before nationalists or not, are democrats and above the integrity of the Spanish nation, in which you believe just as you do, put forward the right of the peoples that make up the Spanish State to decide whether or not they want to be part of the Spanish State. [[Applauds]] The compañeros of Unidos Podemos intend to seduce us so that we stay in Spain, but of our own free will. You, Mr Rivera, claim to remain under force, by imposition. Its nationalism considers Spain to have the borders it has. Yes, it is you who speak of borders saying that this cannot be changed even if a part of the people living in that territory intend to change it and organize themselves differently and independently from the rest. That's nationalism, Mr. Rivera. You have turned your nationalism into law and so you have reflected it in the Constitution and you tell us that we cannot make a referendum because the Constitution does not allow it. No, Mr. Rivera, it is not the law and the Constitution that allow it, it is you who refuse to change it or interpret it differently. Because the law can be changed and the Constitution can also be interpreted, both the law and the Constitution, differently. And you, who's a lawyer, should know, and you know it. They have already done so and changed the Constitution in 48 hours at Merkel's command. We interpret it differently when compulsory military service was abolished or when some autonomous community acceded to autonomy by a different route than it was, in addition to other interpretations of the Constitution. If you interpreted it differently, the referendum, which is legal because it is not a crime, would be constitutional in the eyes of Spanish legality and its rule of law, which, by the way, these days is being done by foxes. Let them know at once: the referendum is legal because it is not a crime and, for the moment, the Constitutional has not said that the referendum law was not constitutional. I say this because of the need to use terminology properly. The bottom line is that they do not even want to consider the possibility of Catalonia being independent. Its nationalism does not accept a Spain without Catalonia. The nationalists are you, not us. Catalans and Catalans are people of seny and we do not want to skip the law or the rule of law, but there is no law or rule of law that can prevent the majority of citizens from deciding what they want to decide. [[Rumors]] And that is why we declare ourselves imbued with your law and your rule of law so that, based on our law and our right as a people, Catalan citizenship can decide freely; so that it can decide whether the policies affecting Catalans and Catalans are decided by you from Madrid or we decide from Catalonia; to decide whether we want to live in this centralist monarchy that was agreed with the Francoist forces or whether we want to create a Catalan republic of the 21st century. You want to impose on Catalans and Catalans a monarchy, the Spanish monarchy. We, unlike you, want Catalans to decide, to choose, to vote, to decide whether they want to live in Spain or to have a Catalan republic. [[Applauds]] And on October 1st we will use all the public resources necessary to fulfill this popular mandate emanating from the polls, and it is a mandate to the Parliament of Catalonia and the Government of Catalonia to carry out the referendum. And yes, we will assume the consequences of our actions, as we have always done. We will assume the consequences of our actions, as always, and yes, as always, we will keep faithful to the service of this people forever more. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u96	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Domènech Sampere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u97	Mr. Rivera, you will fail. I think it has failed before, it will fail today and it will fail in the future. In fact, his attitude and that of Citizens remind me of that maximum bliss by a character whose name I don't want to remember saying that, just when the homeland was at the edge of the abyss, we took a step forward. And this is this GNP, a step forward to fall into the abyss. Because the origin of all this, where does it come from? I will read you an article written in 2014 by an illustrious Catalan thinker who, after the Diada, wrote: 'We are therefore faced with a problem, a big problem: some want to separate from Spain and others do not. In politics, it is dangerous to allow situations to rot and be overcome. Despite the difficulties, we must find a way out which passes, first of all, by clearing up a doubt, a great doubt: what is the percentage of Catalan citizens who are in favour of separating themselves from Spain? ... And the only way to find out is by voting. Let us end the ambiguity and put forward in the form of a referendum the alternative that is on the street: do you want Catalonia to separate from Spain and become its own state or do you consider it better to remain part of the current constitutional Spain? ... The form is to activate the type of referendum provided for in article 92 of the Constitution according to which political decisions of particular importance may be submitted to a referendum. ... Things have come to a point that requires clarity and uncertainty should not be prolonged for long. If a community seriously proposes that it wishes to separate itself from Spain, the only democratic way out, exhausted the possibilities of agreement, is to use the procedures envisaged.' This was written by Mr Francesc de Carreras, founder of Citizens. And here is the source of the problem, which has not been allowed to vote in a referendum that was constitutional, that was legal, and you knew it at least since 2014. It has been four years, and in these four years you are the only one who proposes in this GNP is absolutely nothing, no political solution, because at the moment what we are living are entries in newspapers and printing press, intervention by the Catalonian self-government, how more than seven hundred mayors are called to declare, and all this creating an exceptionality that now lives not only Catalonia, but all of Spain. We can only thank them with this unwavering adherence to what they have achieved. They have managed to bring into crisis not only the relationship between Catalonia and Spain, but the same rule of law throughout the Spanish State. [[Applauds]] No more unbreakable adhesions. The constitutional model is not a model of democratic militancy. It's enough to divide, to try to solve things only with judges and cops. We must accept once and for all an absolutely enthroning truth: this country is plurinational and Catalonia in this plurinational country is a nation that has the right to decide, as you said in October 2014. [[Applauds]] It's enough to create times of emergency, it's enough to chase citizens, it's enough to chase mayors, it's enough to chase ballot papers and ballot boxes. Please sit down at once and engage in dialogue and abandon purely repressive policies. Indeed, we are experiencing complicated moments and, before them, there is only more democracy and no less democracy; before these complicated moments there is only more dialogue and no less dialogue and before these complicated moments it is the citizens of Catalonia who have to be able to decide their future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u98	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rivera, the Group of the European People's Party adheres seamlessly to the full content of this motion and also wishes to acknowledge and thank you and all the groups for the support you have expressed in one way or another to the Government and to the institutions at a time as far-reaching as it is complicated. [[Applauds]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of responding to a coup to the rule of law, to a rupturist blackmail that goes against the law and our coexistence; it is a question of defending our democracy, and that is always appropriate, Mrs Batet. There are no victims here, no repression, no state of emergency. We have already warned them that the Government would respond with proportionality, but also with firmness and determination, to any attempt to break the territorial unity or the existing legality, and that is precisely what it is doing. But we also remind you that anyone who challenges the rule of law is never a victim, but solely responsible for the consequences of non-compliance. [[Applauds]] Don't look for other culprits, Mr. Xuclà. You know why? Because in democracy no one has the privilege of complying with laws at all convenience, nor do there exist spaces of impunity for anyone. In this is the principle of legality, which in the face of the right to force is always the force of law, which in democracy or is the rule of law or is not, and which democracy is born with freedom, but - do not forget it - lives with the law, always lives with the law, therefore the law is an instrument of freedom, because the law equals all, protects all and obliges all. [[Applauds]] When you, Mr Domènech, hear this, it is a general and universal principle of law - because you have spoken a lot about freedom and decision-making, but few laws - when you hear that the law obliges everyone, what do you think, that everyone refers to everyone else? What kind of democracy does that support? How could a cohabitation be built if everyone here did what they wanted? For in no way, ladies and gentlemen, because without rules and laws there can be neither democracy nor coexistence. [[Applauds]] That the laws can be changed? Of course, but through the democratic method, you know: from the law to the law. In the meantime, the law is always imposed and that is neither repression nor state of emergency, but the rule of democracy, because what is not legal, is neither legitimate nor democratic, nor can one vote against or outside the laws, ladies and gentlemen. Nor can Mrs Capella ask the Government not to comply with its obligations or to negotiate on what it cannot negotiate. Moreover, we now know that you do not want to negotiate or dialogue. We've been trying for months and you didn't want to, so stop euphemisms because you don't want to talk. [[Laughter]] Tell the truth; what they want is to impose and break the unity of Spain, and we will not accept any blackmail. [[Applauds]] No, ladies and gentlemen, we do not accept any impositions or blackmail. Neither will we negotiate law enforcement, Spain's unity, national sovereignty or equality and solidarity among Spaniards. These are basic principles in our coexistence and the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group will always defend them. We can tell you more, but no clearer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] There are things that cannot be negotiated in democracy; I have told you before. It cannot be changed that we are all equal before the law or that the law obliges all or that we are all subject to effective judicial guardianship. If any of these principles were missing, we would no longer be facing a democracy, but we would be facing something else; I don't know if that's what you're looking for. We can change the Constitution or the territorial model, yes, but it cannot be changed that this right and that decision belongs to all Spaniards, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Here we all decide the future of everyone. Those are the rules. Who has given you the power to decide for others? Where is it written that you have the privilege to be above the laws or to be above the rights of all of us? If we allowed it, where would we leave our dignity as representatives of national sovereignty? Where would we leave her, ladies and gentlemen? That is why we are not going to allow it, and that is why this referendum on self-determination and rupture cannot be held and will not be held. I do not know what you will try that day, but it will not be a referendum of self-determination because it will not be held, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] In a few years' time, it will be remembered that there was a time when some people challenged our coexistence by breaking the laws, dividing society, accusing and apprehensioning the dissenters, threatening officials, pressuring the media, trampling on the rights of parliamentarians and disobeying - yes, ladies and gentlemen - judicial decisions. But it will also be remembered that there were others who supported the Government to respond to that challenge in defense of legality, in defense of the unity of Spain and the constitutional order and in defense of that open, moderate and tolerant Catalonia that is already tired and tired of so much foolishness and so much radicality. But above all and with that I end you have to remember for one thing: because you did not achieve your goal. Because, let no one be deceived: you are not launching a challenge to the Government or national unity, you are above all launching an ordeal to the law and, with it, to democracy. That is why democracy now has to win and democracy will win. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u100	I ask Mr Rivera Díaz whether he accepts his group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u101	President, we have proposed a compromise that accepts almost all the points except the last one, but the Socialist Group has not wanted to withdraw the pact with the nationalists and we cannot accept it. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Oh!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u102	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u103	We shall now proceed to discuss the motions arising from the questioning. Firstly, it is appropriate to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on measures to promote a wage recovery that involves a fairer distribution of income. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Peña Camarero has the floor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that today we will be able to find a good news evening for the... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u105	Mrs. Peña, one second, please. Ladies and gentlemen, either take your seats and remain silent, or leave the Chamber. Mrs Peña, let's wait for your ladies and gentlemen to finish talking. [[Pause]] They continue to speak, do not respect the Presidency and continue to misuse the Rules of Procedure. [[Pause]] Mrs Peña, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. I was telling them that I hope that this afternoon we will be able to give good news to the workers of this country, who are demanding a fair wage recovery, so we have an obligation to make an effort, to park differences and to move towards a model of decent wages that break with the current low wages, poor workers, precarious contracts and poorly distributed productivity. That is what we want, to form a new pillar, an income pact for our country. Because the supposed economic recovery does not come into the pocket of the Spaniards, because the distribution of wealth is increasingly unfair and because we are already tired of listening to the minister hiding behind twisted statistical data. Listening to her these days reminded me of what Benedetti said: how cruel it is to think that so much happiness - that which produces to Minister Báñez the statistics - is so sad. Because I'm sure if the minister ran away from her office flooded with reports and asked the waiter to put in a coffee shop, I'd know that wage inequality has gone off, if she talked to the hotel's roommate, I'd know that four out of every ten women workers who have lower wages have even been reduced, or if she listened to the security officers at the airport, they would explain that they've been cut up to 400 euros a month. This is the statistics of life, which he does not want to see, and that is enough, because this government's labour policy is unfair, it is tremendously unfair. This year we will close the value of GDP with greater volume than before the crisis, yes, but you know what? We will have two million fewer jobs, two million that have disappeared and that Mrs Báñez has no interest in finding again. The increase in productivity is based on the adjustment of pure and hard staff, an increase in radioactive waste of 7000 euros generated per worker, of which only 200 go to the pocket of the person who works it. As socialists will understand, we have said enough, and we know that there is an alternative, that there is an alternative here, that there is another way of working by breaking the current wage dynamics and creating a new model that offers decent wages. The approach is clear, if we really want to move towards a new wage model, the first thing is that these wages regain the weight they had before the crisis at least. And yes, there is scope, there is to increase wages, at least 2.5% on average for this next year 2018 and that in successive years, until 2020, the rise is set at 3%. In addition, we all know here the signal that it is able to change this dynamics of low wages, increase the incomes of those who have suffered the most from the crisis, lower incomes, raise that interprofessional minimum wage. Dialogue with trade unions, economic and social actors is essential to achieve an inter-professional minimum wage worth EUR 1000 per month in 2020. And it is that in terms of work quality in public employment means proposing an increase in wages for public workers, which at least amounts to an increase in inflation and is spread over thirty-five hours. But there will be no real recovery if we do not give a choice to all those young people who have left and who want to return, to those who do not want to continue exporting their free lives, to the thousands of young people who have graduated thanks to the efforts of their families, who today feel frustrated and underutilized, to the hundreds of children who left their studies at the dawn of construction and who have been unable to form and recycle this People's Party government to return to the labour market. Let's put in place a specific shock plan so that these young people stop giving away the value of their work. There are ideas, there is European funding, there is only this government's desire and determination. There's a lot to change. Women have endured the worst of this crisis, the worst jobs and the lowest wages have been for us. It is an unbearable situation, because women in this country want to make our way to work, have the same salary at the same job and come to the end of our lives with equal pensions. That is why we propose to work on a future law on equal pay and work. [[The Lord]] The common denominator of our entire labour market, beyond what I have indicated, is abuse. The abuse of temporary recruitment, the abuse of excess hours worked and unpaid, the abuse introduced in the workers' negotiations. That is why we strongly and clearly advocate the repeal of its labour reform, repealing it and ensuring that the sector agreements take precedence over those of the enterprise, and recovering collective bargaining. And all this because we have to get out of that false dilemma in which you try to get us into, the one that says: You are with us or with the forces of evil. This phrase comes to our mind, because that question sums up the position of a government that is trying to make us believe that there is no more formula than low wages and precarious contracts to get out of the crisis. It's a whole manual fallacy. Wages can and must grow because productivity is growing. Such increased productivity can also enable us to address areas where this Government is neither expected nor expected: new active or passive employment policies, investment policies in innovation or the promotion of the use of advanced technologies. So, gentlemen of the government, think again, look for solutions, and if you don't find them, here you have this pact. But please free the labour market in this country from the ideological kidnapping they have been subjected to. Abandon the world of Oz in which they are installed and tread reality by launching this income pact, because if the economic recovery does not reach the workers, there will be no economic recovery possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. Mr Roldán Monés has the floor to defend the amendment tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u108	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Peña, I must confess that when I read the motion you submitted, I had the impression that I was reading some sort of United Left pamphlet of the 1980s more than a modern social-democratic project for the labour market. [[Rumors]] It is worrying that the world has changed as much, that we have had a technological revolution as we have had, that we have joined the global production chains, that we are in a world of open trade, globalization, and that you continue to follow exactly the same work model you had in the 1980s. It is essential to offer new answers if we are to address the new challenges posed by today's world. The first point of his motion proposes to repeal the 2012 reform. I do not know very well, Mrs Peña, what work model you want to return to, if you want to return to Zapatero's work model, which, as we all know, was a very successful model in our country. It was the model that has generated the most unemployment, the model that has generated the most precarious and, moreover, a profoundly unfair model, because it systematically discriminates against them, excludes from the labour market always the same, the precarious workers. It seems a lie, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that you are called progressives. In his model, as I say, there is systematic discrimination against temporary workers. With every crisis that has come, the storms have been massively expelled to adjust the cycle of the economy. That can't be a model for the future. We need to talk about flexibility, we need to talk about security, but in terms of the 21st century, not in terms of the 19th century. Just as they offer a territorial model that seems to prioritize the privileges of some identities over citizens, they want to defend a work model that also defends the privileges of some to the detriment of the vast majority. And do they do so because they really believe that this model will provide a future response to the challenges of unemployment and precariousness in our labour market? I don't think so. I think they do so because it responds to the interests that are no longer the interests of today's workers, Mrs Peña, it responds to the interests of what your union would be in this case. I would also like to stress that it seems to me that your model has become the most conservative model of all, they do not want to move a millimeter of what has failed. They also talk of raising the SMI by decree to 1000 or 2000 euros. Why does Citizens not propose to raise the SMI to 1000 or 2000 euros in this House right now - we could do it, it's very easy, it comes out for free -? Because wages cannot be raised by decree, you need to invest in productivity, you need to invest in innovation, you need to transform the economic model. Stop fooling citizens, for that we already have a party in this House that is incapable of treating citizens as adults. Nor are we in favour of returning to a world in which 35 hours are worked. And I suggest that if you want equality in the labour market between men and women and to end the discrimination that exists, you add to the proposals that you have made Citizens, who have already achieved in the budget how to advance in the equalization of permits or how to improve the rights of women and autonomous mothers. They also propose in their motion a rescue from youth. I propose to you that you aim for the rescue of the young people already in progress, which is called the orange wage supplement, which has potential beneficiaries of 500 000 young people and also a zero cost for the public arks. In sum, there is, stop making empty proposals that already exist; if you really care about young people, I suggest you stop blocking the complement and join so that so many young people in this country can benefit. In short, you propose a model of the twentieth century for problems of the twenty-first century. They have become conservative for inertia, for the backpacks they carry and for their debts to a trade union world of the past. In Citizens we have a different model - and with this I finish - we think we have to focus on the worker, more on the worker and not so much on the job. We have to revolutionize formation. We must fight against insecurity, yes, but with effective measures that are successful in other countries such as wage supplementation. We want to put an end to temporary discrimination, not perpetuate it as its model proposes with measures such as the single contract we have proposed. This autumn, fortunately, Citizens will bring to this House a model adapted to the working reality of the 21st century, which is very different from what you propose. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u110	Mr President, I am speaking from the seat. The Socialist Group proposes to us a very broad, twelve-point motion which constitutes what is legitimately the Socialist Party's electoral programme in the field of employment and requests that the rest of the groups accompany it in this proposal. I have to say to Mrs Peña that in those twelve points there are some issues that are also part of the electoral programme with which the Democratic Party participated and we could perfectly vote in favour. But at the same time, in those twelve points that you are asking us, for example, when in the first point you refer to the repeal of the 2012 labour reform, you continue to give no answer to the two fundamental questions that it is reasonable for us to demand from the Socialist Party in terms of employment: the first question is what is its model of labour relations. Is this the model of labour reform that was approved before, by the way, agreed with our former parliamentary group? Are the reforms that were made with the Valerian ministers Gómez and Celestino Corbacho? Is this the model of labour relations in the mid-1990s? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u111	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u112	And if that model is not, surely it is no longer because we are not in the 1990s or the early days of the crisis, what is the model of labour relations that the Socialist Party offers us? Two objectives must be pursued: the primacy of the right to work, which is the tuitive objective of protecting the weakest, and the other objective which today the right to work must inevitably assume and which is also to make the defence of workers' rights compatible with the ability of companies to compete in a global economy. Mrs Peña, the modern social democracy, which governs the north and the centre of Europe, has been able to build a model of balance, because she understands that the best guarantee of workers' rights is the maintenance of the job and economic activity, which requires a labour right that does not make it inevitable from the rigidity of the closure of businesses and the loss and destruction of millions of jobs. Mrs Peña, if there is anything we should learn from the crisis, it is that the labor regulations we had in the years 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 did not prevent hundreds of thousands of companies from closing down and millions of jobs from being destroyed. Therefore, Mrs Peña, it is up to them to do their duties, to think of a labour law for an open and competitive economy. I would like to point out that we logically share some of the issues of your motion. We share, for example, the commitment to move towards an interprofessional minimum wage that is comparable to the objective set by the European Social Charter of 60% of the average wage. We share the need for useful active employment policies, because, among other things, the model of labour relations of the twenty-first century, which is necessarily more flexible, if it is to guarantee workers' safety, also needs robust and robust active employment policies. And, Your Honor, we do share another idea, and it is that in labour matters agreements between workers and employers are fundamental. The only aspect that we do not share in the 2012 labour reform was that which gave priority to the company agreement above the sector agreement. Perhaps this is the most wrong point in labour reform, but we must also say that despite this collective bargaining in the Spanish State continues to play a fundamental role in the construction of labour relations. The number of workers covered by collective agreements has not changed very much over the years, so there is a huge responsibility on the part of trade unions and business organisations to continue to build, through collective bargaining, consensual - consensual - responses within the framework of companies and within sectors that respond to the necessary balance between flexibility and security. That is our position, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, Mr President - and I will finish this - I will ask you to vote separately on certain points in the motion if the Socialist Group is finally prepared to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u114	Mr President, I will try to be brief, so I too will speak from the seat. It has also happened to me what has happened to the people who have preceded me in the use of the word; I have thought exactly the same thing. In fact, the first time I read this motion I thought: Here is a sheet - the last - that indicates that this is the electoral program of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party; program that will be very legitimate, program with which at some times we can coincide and at others not, very respectable program, but that it does not come at all - in any way - to the content, first, of the control activity or the activity that is supposed to be done when it is exercised through a motion the proposition to the Government of certain direction of political action; nor does it resemble other actions that, above all in the social field, have characterized the party that you now represent. I am sorry to tell you this, but there are things that are almost contradictory because proposing the repeal of labour reform without detailing the rules that you want to eliminate from the system does not seem too serious, nor is it talking in such a generic way of a new Workers' Statute without knowing exactly what the terms are and what areas need to be changed. To talk about strengthening the principle of causation or mentioning deregulation when you yourself weakened that principle in the previous reform, in 2011, does not seem to us serious either. You must remember that you approved the unlimited chaining of temporary contracts or the extension of training contracts for young people up to the age of 30, and it would be necessary to detect all that because we cannot admit it as a mere soffilama. Wage rise rates or the amount of the minimum wage are issues that we need to address and on which we agree, but what cannot be done is that they are blocked in the Bureau of Congress, precisely with their support, for a long time and that they are now brought to us as if they were a motion to boost government activity. Innovation, equal access to training, the boost of employability - not job creation - within the framework of active policies, with allocations equivalent to those of 2011, are of course also not bad, as is also a shock plan for young employment or measures to eliminate precariousness, false self-employment or other forms of labour exploitation. But with what content? Because that is what it is about in this House, to determine the content of all these actions in terms of innovation, equality or access to training. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, we understand that they have a healthy purpose, to call it something. I have commented to you before that we can agree in many of the actions you propose and that they are also in line with what you know we have supported on other occasions, but to associate that statement of intentions that we believe is with the direction of political action referred to in article 66.2 of the Constitution is simply a coincidence; it is not in this case. When I read it, I repeat, it seemed to me that it was more of a part of the Socialist Party's electoral programme and for that very reason we cannot support it on this occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mrs Franco Carmona has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Peña, you will agree with me that there are three fundamental issues for increasing wages: one is the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage; the second is the strengthening of collective bargaining and the third is the change in the productive model through investment in high-intensity sectors in research, development and innovation. With regard to the first two, the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea has submitted two proposals for legislation that would solve them. The increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, now presented just one year ago, consists in the increase of the interprofessional minimum wage to 800 euros for 2018 and to 950 euros for 2020. Unfortunately, this initiative is blocked in the Bureau and you, the Socialist Party gentlemen, have agreed with the people's party to increase the inter-professional minimum wage by a much lower amount, up to 707 euros. Let us hope that at this new session, after having ended its processes and internal conflicts, they will unlock this much-needed law. On the other hand, in June we presented a proposal for a law on collective bargaining with which we sought to eliminate the harmful effects of the labour reform of the People's Party, with which they tried to hurt collective bargaining by death. So what we are trying to do is to recover the wage levels, the revaluation levels from 1% to 3% that existed before the crisis. Thirdly, with regard to the change in the productive model, what we are going to need sincerely will be a new government that stops ruling for those above and starts ruling for those below, and I remind you: its corruption, its fiscal amnesties, its motorway rescues, its empty airports, its walls that divide Murcia into two and its bank rescues, which cost us the Spanish 40 billion euros that we will never recover. [[Applauds]] Tourism is very important to our economy, but it is not everything in life can be a waiter, and this is the model that the People's Party has, that of poor and rightsless workers. If not, let the population of Linares remember it, with a 45% stop after closing the Santana Motor, half city on the street... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u117	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. ... Half a city on the street last Thursday demanding the Andalusian Junta to fulfill its promise of reindustrialization. But of course, it is that the PSOE of Andalusia, the PSOE of Susana Díaz, looks too much like the People's Party. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what political cynicism is? I'm gonna explain it to you with some Fatima Báñez perlites. First pearl: We are in the spring of employment. Yes, in the spring of precarious employment. The average duration of a contract in July 2007 was seventy-three days; now, in 2017, the average duration is forty-nine days. Second pearl: If the labour reform had been approved in 2008, the destruction of two million jobs in Spain would have been avoided. Well, on July 31st, we had the record of job destruction in our country, 266,362 job losses. Spring of the job...? Third pearl: In Spain, indefinite contracts have increased by 93%. Well, Mrs Báñez is going to have to agree with the Banco de España, which says that 65% of the jobs created are temporary. And the last pearl, the queen of pearls: The job that comes is of more quality than the one that went away. Well, not only are new contracts more temporary, but also people who lost their jobs during the crisis and who are now able to get them back are getting them back with 24% less pay. And so we could go on until tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, my group will always be on the side of the defence of labour rights, but this motion that you bring here today is not binding, it serves only one thing, and it is to take the holder away. What is binding are the two proposals of law that my group has presented, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, to increase the minimum wage to 800 euros in 2018 and to 950 in 2020, and the other proposal of law to recover collective bargaining. I'm done, Your Honor. There are two things you can do from now on: on the one hand, unlock the Minimum Wage Act and, on the other, help us get the collective bargaining law going. We hope that this time they will live up to our people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this income pact of the Socialist Party forgets the unemployed, and if it was already cruel for the left to send more than three million people to unemployment in this country, now that 70% of the job lost has been recovered, it is just as cruel or more cruel to forget about people who have not yet found a job. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to do it. The unemployed are our priority. The labour reform they want to repeal is one that has allowed Spain to lead job creation in Europe and to double the eurozone average. What do you want us to go back to the policies of the left when 1500 jobs are destroyed every day? Ladies and gentlemen, with labour reform, more than 2600 jobs are being created every day, 500 000 jobs a year and more than two million jobs created since the recovery. That you have to raise your wages? Of course, but the minister has already said that it is time to raise wages and has recommended that the social partners conclude an agreement. But gentlemen of the left, respect the social partners, who set wages. It is not the government, nor this Congress, nor the opposition. You fall into your own contradictions. First they say that collective bargaining must be encouraged and then they say how much the social partners have to raise. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, respect and thanks to the social partners for the workers' three years of moderate increases that have allowed them to gain purchasing power. Do you know when wages began to lose purchasing power? In the year 2008 and following. Increase in CPI 4.1, increase in wages 3.6. Why didn't they tell the social workers at the time how much they had to raise their wages? You speak of precariousness, Your Honor. Undefined recruitment is growing twice as fast as temporary. Three out of four Spaniards have an indefinite contract, more than 7 points than before the crisis. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u121	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u122	Temporary contracts. You have the boldness to talk about temporary recruitment when it is precisely the 1984 reform that breaks the principle of causality in temporary recruitment. Or don't we remember the garbage contracts of the '80s anymore? Don't we remember when Zapatero chained, endlessly, temporary contracts? Ladies and gentlemen, the rate of temporaryity has fallen by 7 points with labour reform. You also talk about labour exploitation. Tell this to your colleagues on the Andalusian Board, who have files to quote less than five thousand workers, precisely nurses, who have the lowest wages. Shame on the undercutting, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] His comrades at the Andalusian Junta. You say there are many contracts of less than a month. Falsely, they do not reach 1 %, more or less the same percentage in 2011. You have spoken of unfair distributions. Unfair shares, ladies and gentlemen, the former, with the left, which allowed 17 Ibex companies to pay zero euros of corporate tax with Zapatero. Those are indeed unfair distributions. You talk about raising salaries to public employees to regain purchasing power. Surely, ladies and gentlemen, it would be the one they lost when the socialists lowered the salary to officials between 5 and 10%. [[Applauds]] You're talking about raising the minimum wage. I remind you that Zapatero promised to set the interprofessional minimum wage at 800 euros and that it is now at 707 euros because this government has raised it by 8%, the biggest rise in history, it is true that with your agreement, but it has been done by a People's Party government. And you talk about young people. Ladies and gentlemen, you made an apprenticeship contract without any kind of social cover; I would be ashamed to talk about young people because you were able to raise the youth unemployment rate by more than 30 points, from 15 to 50 %, ladies and gentlemen. With labour reform the youth unemployment rate has fallen by more than 15 points. And I'm gonna tell you something, you don't split the job. The number of hours worked has increased for the third consecutive year and 93% of all jobs recovered are full-time. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you have no credibility and we will not support the motion for three reasons. Firstly, because you forget about the unemployed, which is our absolute priority. Secondly, because we are very clear that our model is 3% economic growth, creating five hundred thousand jobs a year and a real increase in productivity, and your model already knows what has brought us: unemployment, poverty and inequality. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, we deeply respect the social partners, who decide wages in collective bargaining. Therefore, humbly, with this curriculum, you, employment lessons, the just. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Spain. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendment tabled, I ask Mrs Peña Camarero whether she accepts her group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u124	We cannot accept it on two points. The training check and salary supplement proposed by Citizens are just the things we struggle for...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u125	No, the turn is just for him to accept...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u126	No, because it's precarious in the labour market. We don't accept it...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u127	Mrs. Peña, listen to me. The turn is for you to accept or reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u128	We do not accept it and propose a point-by-point vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u129	Listen to me and answer me, please, when I ask you, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u130	All right.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u131	There is a request for a point-by-point vote. Do you accept the point vote?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u133	All the stitches?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u134	Yes, separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u135	Separately. Thank you very much. At the end of the debate on the items for this sitting, we shall proceed to the vote in five minutes. [[Pausa. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin the vote. We are voting, first of all, on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on measures to protect vulnerable consumers of natural gas and other pipeline fuels. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 plus 2 telematics votes, 330; 199 plus 2 telematics votes, 201; 4; abstentions, 125.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u137	It's approved. - THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS CAN COMMONLY BE DEVELOPED, AGAINST DISCRIMINATION BY SEXUAL GUIDELINE, IDENTITY OR EXPRESSION OF SEXUAL GENERAL AND CHARACTERISTICS, AND OF SOCIAL EQUALITY OF LESBIAN, GAS, BISEXUAL, TRANSEXUAL, TRANSGENERAL AND INTERSEXUAL LESBIANS. [[File number 122/000097]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u138	We then vote to consider the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, identity or expression of gender and sexual characteristics, and of social equality of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals, transgender and intersexuals. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 plus 2 telematics votes, 328; in favour, 200 plus 2 telematics votes, 202; against, 2; abstentions, 124. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u139	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u140	We shall proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the course of the debate. No law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on abusive rents, guarantees for tenants and small owners and public rental park. The vote will take place on the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and the Joint Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 166 against, 155 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u141	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT IN THE DEFENCE OF THE STATE OF LAW IN CATALUNIA. [[File number 162/000459]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u142	We then vote on the non-legislative proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on institutional support for the defence of the rule of law in Catalonia. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 158 against, 166 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u143	It's rejected. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u144	We shall continue with the votes on the motions following an inquiry. Motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for it on points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 157 against, 135 abstentions, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u145	It was adopted. We voted on point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 186 against, 128 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u146	It was adopted. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 282 against, 39 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u147	It was adopted. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 196 against, 125 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u148	It was adopted. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 157 against, 127 abstentions, 45.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u149	It was adopted. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 165 against, 158 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u150	It was adopted. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 157 against, 127 abstentions, 45.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u151	It was adopted. Point 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 320 against, 3 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u152	It was adopted. Point 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 196 against, 127 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u153	It was adopted. Point 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 197 against, 1 abstentions, 131.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u154	It was adopted. Point 11. The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 90 against, 32 abstentions, 206.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u155	It was adopted. Point 12. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 322 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-19-CD170919.u156	It was adopted. The meeting was suspended. It was seven and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
