ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u2	We began the session with the item on the consideration of proposals for legislation; in particular, the proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group, to promote and facilitate the donation of food. Mrs González Vázquez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u3	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in his 2009 book on waste, Waste: Incovering the Global Food Scandal, British researcher Tristram Stuart shows us a graphic image and I think it is truly shocking of our life model. The garbage can of any Western home contains the same amount of food as the fridge of that same house. In Spain, a large part of the population aged 50 or over has been educated in the values of austerity and savings in their relationship with food and other consumer goods, due to post-war deprivations and a quasi-religious relationship with food. For this reason, many people continue to maintain as a living belief the idea that wasting food is not right from any point of view; it is uneconomic, environmentally harmful and even a lack of respect and an insolidary attitude towards those who suffer from food deprivation. Despite this background, Spain is very quickly incorporated into the global disease of food waste; 13 billion tons of food annually, one third of world production, of which 7.7 million tons are produced in Spain. More graphically, wasted food would occupy 30% of the land area of the planet and for its production it would be necessary 250 cubic kilometers of water, 75 times the recorded water consumption in Spain in 2011. Food waste generates a carbon footprint of 3.3 billion tons of CO2, making it the world's hypothetical third largest producer of greenhouse gases. All this while 12% of the world's population, 795 million people, suffer from undernourishment or chronic hunger. These are truly alarming facts that this House has already dealt with several different initiatives and that have involved decision-making by international organisations, such as the United Nations or the European or Spanish administrations. Goal 12.3 of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals aims to halve per capita food waste in 2030 for retail and final consumers and reduce food loss along production and supply chains. In 2012, the European Parliament urged Member States to address urgently the problem of food loss and waste along the supply and consumption chain. The Ministry of Agriculture of the Government of Spain for its part developed the strategy More food, less waste, with the aim of reducing the losses and waste and valorization of discarded food. 2014 was the European Year against Food Waste. Ladies and gentlemen, food waste is a very complex issue that relates to the sustainability of the food chain and to food security in all its dimensions, from food production in the countryside to processing industries, the distribution phase, school eateries, restaurants or our own homes. The causes are not always the same, they vary according to the type of products, their production, their storage, transport, packaging and, finally, their correct or incorrect consumption. During the toughest years of the economic crisis we have just experienced awareness about the lack of ethics of food waste has been general. Throughout Europe, there has been a change in opinion about waste and waste, not just food but any other product. Price cuts have been widespread in the food chains of those foods close to their expiry date that are sold, for example, in separate linears with a significant discount. It is becoming more and more common to ask for that leftover food in the restaurant that has been ordered but not consumed to take it home and eat it at another time; more and better products are recycled in the domestic case, such as oil; at the same time, information on issues such as the difference between the expiry date of a product and the date of preferential consumption, one linked to the safety of a food that is generally very perishable and another to the quality of a durable product has increased. Faced with the linear economy model - extraction, production, use and waste - the European Commission's circular economy package proposes to extract, produce, use, reuse and recycle our resources. It is a different approach in which raw materials, as in nature, are within a circle in a continuous process in which we must derive the greatest benefit from them without prejudice to human health or the environment. To this awareness and change of attitude about resources in general and food in particular, responds to this proposed law that the People's Parliamentary Group is presenting for consideration today. It is about taking one more step, one possibly small but one more, on that path towards the gradual elimination of food waste. We plan to encourage the donation of food in the face of discarding or waste, channelling as much as possible of those millions of tons that are wasted every year in our country to the food banks whose representatives, present here today, I would like to greet especially and also non-governmental organizations. How can we do that? For there are still legal barriers to the donation of food associated with the risks to civil liability for donated food, and the proposal we put forward is the one that is usually called El Buen Samaritan, raised in Italy with great success, where it managed to multiply food donations by twelve in ten years. To this end, the proposed law proposes a small change, as it said, but substantial, in the Food Security and Nutrition Act 17/2011: changing the consideration of non-profit entities to final consumers with respect to food donors, but maintaining obligations as food operators with respect to their beneficiaries. Food producers and retailers are willing to donate their surpluses to a greater extent than they do right now because of these legal obstacles: civil liability for donated foods that we propose to amend today. This will create greater legal certainty which will make it easier for donations that are already being made - we have to say - in a fluid way but which we hope will increase substantially, just as has happened in Italy. The legislative amendment seeks to limit the responsibility of food donors in good faith. This initiative is not alone in our desire to transform the legal framework to support the donation of food in the face of its discard. At the same time we have recorded a non-legislative proposal for its debate in the Committee on Finance to urge the Spanish Government to ask the European institutions to amend the directive on the common VAT system to exempt supplies of goods or food to NGOs when they are intended to be consumed within the European Union itself. The directive already provides for VAT exemption if the products go outside the Union in the context of solidarity activities, but not if this donation takes place within the framework of the Union itself. With the approval of these two proposals, which we are voting on today and which will soon be taken to the Committee on Finance, the People's Parliamentary Group, together with the rest of the groups in this House, if you join, as we wish, this proposal, you want to give a small answer, yes, but a solidarity, intelligent and responsible response to the problem of limits to food donations. Many thanks to the Business Association of Restoration Brands and the Federation of Food Banks for their collaboration in the elaboration of this initiative and to my colleagues Carlos Floriano and María Jesús Bonilla for their processing. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Forum supports the consideration of a law amendment to promote and facilitate the donation of food. While the data show that employment is being created in Spain and that there are reasons to persevere in economic growth policies to reach the greatest number of families, the reality is that so-called food banks have multiplied over the past ten years in the face of the need for food assistance, clothing and life-saving commodities. In recent years there has been an increase in the number of social eaters in Spain to try to alleviate the need for food for those who have been punished for the crisis started in 2007, which has gradually dragged our country to lose three and a half million jobs, although Mr Rodríguez Zapatero presented himself in 2008 to the general elections under the slogan: 'For full employment'. Today the situation is being reversed and in Spain employment is being created, so many families are emerging from the vital precariousness, starting with food. In any case, it should be noted that the crisis has made it possible to verify the solidarity of the Spaniards. It is enough to recall the existence of the Spanish Federation of Food Banks, which aggregates more than half a hundred banks, with at least one in each province, which are attended by more than two thousand volunteers, a federation, by the way, distinguished in 2012 with the Prince of Asturias Prize of Concord, which also recognized the contribution of all the entities, institutions and people who collaborate in this extraordinary work of solidarity. With this bill, legal certainty is increased and food waste is avoided using as a model the so-called Good Samaritan Law, which recalled the spokesman of the People's Group that is being applied in countries such as Italy, Mexico or the United States, among others. This legislative amendment limits the civil liability of food donors, avoiding that if a person becomes intoxicated or has any problems arising from the intake of some food donation with some food donated in good faith, the donor will be legally harmed. The Forum vote, Madam President, will be in favour of this consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. It has a bit of a nose for the People's Party to bring a bill today when it could have brought a royal decree and we'd be a lot faster. In the past legislature, when they had absolute majority, 244 laws were enacted, of which 75 were by decree-law. I believe that this is an issue that justifies what the Constitution says, which is an extraordinary case and of urgent need, saying already in advance that we will approve it. But it could go much faster if instead of making a bill they had brought a decree-law because it would be much faster. Look, in 2012, we already made an inquiry to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Arias Cañete, precisely for the destruction of food to be banned and in September 2016 we again presented another against the waste of food. Therefore, since it is an urgent issue and has to be legislated, we will vote in favour and therefore we do not understand that there is a proposal for a law and not a decree-law. In addition, we believe that in that decree-law, if it were to be done, there is a lot of travel, awareness-raising campaigns, encouragement of local markets and short distribution chains, the incorporation of coercive measures for those who destroy food and to create a permanent forum that provides for innovative measures in this area. Finally, a topic that is now also being discussed in the State contracts, so that in the services of collective restoration, those who guarantee the free redistribution of food or promote actions against waste could be given precedence. We're going to vote for it, but think about it, a decree-law would also vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u8	Thank you very much. Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u9	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I could devote these two and a half minutes that I have to sing all the figures and all the data from all the reports that we have on the table on the state of poverty in Spain, on the risk of social exclusion, on the figures of food waste in the European Union, on the special report of the European Court of Auditors, on the agency of waste in Catalonia or on the French law prohibiting supermarkets from wasting food, but we all have these figures, these data and all these reports here. In fact, almost all groups have put forward initiatives in this regard. So I will use these remaining seconds to urge you all to agree and to be useful because we can wait for someone to do the job, we can wait for that law from that European Commission to come along and apply it, or we can use this House to do more than party campaigns, do more than TV showcases, and do more than turn it into a warehouse of many GNPs. Today I invite you to do with this proposal of law a work that is up to the social fabric, a social fabric that every day gives us lessons on coordination and efficiency when we here have the necessary tools to provide this coordination and efficiency with a level legal framework. Let's do it and do it without looking back because I think that on issues like this we should, we could and we should all agree. So let us be part of this fabric and not part of the problem, and for that we must prioritize, solve the problem and campaign. It is clear that we all have different ways of achieving a solution to each problem, but we must be able to propose, negotiate, agree and generate consensus, even if we all have to give up one of our own formulas. I'm done. This proposal by the Group of the European People's Party seems insufficient, but here it is and means one more step. I insist, it is not all that ambitious that we believe it could be and to be at the level that society demands of us we must polish much and among all this proposition. So I say to you that our group is going to table amendments to try to make this proposal the best version of itself, and we are going to do it without a doubt alongside the social fabric to which I referred at the beginning. We shall vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u10	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The People's Party is presenting us today with a bill to promote and facilitate the donation of food. This bill proposes the introduction of a new additional provision in Act No. 17/2011 on Food Security and Nutrition, a simple additional provision with the aim of ensuring that social entities responsible for the solidary distribution of food are considered final consumers with respect to donors, but maintaining their obligations as operators vis-à-vis final beneficiaries. It is logical that all parties are legally protected and that the responsibilities arising from their activity are shielded and guaranteed. Without a doubt, it seems to us to be a corrective and necessary measure. In any case, they will allow me to consider that, following this proposal, one or two debates will be opened: one, the waste and waste of food and, two, the donation of food to people who need it. I believe that these are two different debates that we have annexed as if they had the same cause and that the failure to bring them together can be a cause for concern at least. On the one hand, what we do to keep food from being wasted, and on the other hand, what policies must we follow so that people who have problems purchasing even their food can do so. We can draw a logical consequence according to which the food that is left automatically is sent and distributed to those who need it, but this would respond to an attitude based on absolute dependence and on criteria that cannot be conceived or accepted as the basis of a social state and social protection policies by the Administration. Of course, there must be complementary activities that show the best of the human being, such as the human being's capacity for solidarity, to help the needy, but that must never be a substitute for the obligations of the Administration and that in the case of Euskadi they really are fulfilled. Complementary, yes; substitute, no. Having said that, I would like to point out that the text presented by the People's Party smells like naphthaline and reflects a way of thinking that is not very time-bound. Today, in a bill, terms such as charitable organizations or social assistance cannot be used. I think we are in a much more advanced situation than we are to use those terms. Undoubtedly, solidarity is a diamond that we human beings have and we use it in accordance with our commitment, our beliefs, our education, our goals, our conception of life. There are even acts of solidarity that the Administration will never be able to do and that it must never do, but a society with a deep-rooted social fabric and a committed Administration - with established social bases - cannot base its social policy on individual will or solidarity. It must have a guarantee that operates independently of the individual and even collective wills that may exist. In Euskadi we have done so, and social entities, NGOs, agencies and agents working in the social field - the so-called third sector - in cooperation with the Administration have established a system that, in addition to being an example, makes the foundations of people who need special attention - including food - guaranteed, as well as the necessary mechanisms established. The situation of exclusion is surely the most serious that a person can suffer: losing his job, the consequence of having no resources, having to resort to associations that even provide him with food. In this sense, human dignity must certainly be preserved - and that is what the people of the food bank know - because when we are committing an act of these characteristics, the first thing we have to take into account is that we face a human being with needs. Well, all of this is not contradictory to the fact that the work of food banks is laudable, admirable and even necessary. At the Guipúzcoa Diputation last year they received the Volunteer Award for their work. We should discern between two different debates, and even between the third to which I referred. Can we afford to waste food as a society? Can we allow home to get us food and throw it away? Moreover, our voluntary act of donating that food, both that which we can spare and that which we expressly buy to donate, can never be in conflict with the obligations that the Administration, whatever the competent one at any time, must have for the guarantee, the dignity of the life of all citizens is guaranteed - worth the redundancy - and it does not have to suffer certain hardships. I'm done with this sentence. You don't have to give because you have to give because you need it. Let us not make it a consequence: As we are left, we give it. Even if we were not left with it, we would have to give it to the one who needs it, but we would have to guarantee it through the laws and actions of the Administration. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u12	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Olòriz Serra for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u13	Good afternoon, deputies and deputies, Madam President. Proposed legislation to facilitate the donation of food. Okay, but what took you so long to bring a proposal like this? In all the years of absolute majority of the People's Party and exponential growth of poverty, they have proposed nothing similar. Why? The groups have presented - they have been approved in the Commission - similar things months ago and the Government has done nothing. Why? Waiting for you to present a bill to the plenary? Or has this government had and has other priorities, such as hiding corruption and preventing democracy in Catalonia? That is why it is not explained that, put to do something, since they have taken so long, now they remain half after so long. The proposal, which we believe is necessary, is not enough, because the problem is poverty and one of the hardest consequences of poverty is hunger and poor food. It is not a problem of charity, social assistance or charity to silence the bad conscience; social policies are needed because responsibility is not delegated, and this is of the administrations. Among social policies is the distribution of food as an emergency policy, extraordinary, until other policies have effect in a family so that it can be autonomous. This requires means and not in any way. Let's talk about food banks. One of their demands is that they do not have to pay VAT to buy food. We were told that no one could be exempt from VAT and that it was European policy. That is true, but the VAT that is spent on food can be paid retrospectively. What is dignity to give food, give what you have? We have rice, we have soup paste, we have skimmed milk. No, no, you have to give what families need at all times and often in food banks, in social entities, there is not what is needed, but you have to buy and then you have to pay VAT. How do you understand? Pay for it, okay, but pay for it. This GNP was approved months ago in the Committee on Health and it is in the limbo of the GNP, we know nothing. Worry about the issue and do it globally. Food banks are helped in many ways and especially in what they need - not what you need - at any time. All we need is political will. Food is needed, but it also needs to be given in decent spaces and that such food is not just - as I said earlier - what is being held at every moment but that it truly covers the real needs of families. And there are good practices not only in Euskadi, they always make us a public report to pass us through the noses how well they do it, and they do it well. The others, perhaps, we could do just as well with better funding; but this for us is already a past page, let's go to something else. There are CDA, food distribution centers, in different provinces, as in mine, in Girona. Caritas, Red Cross, Food Bank, Town Halls, Parliament and Generalitat agree to ensure worthy distribution centers, where users and users will make the purchase, always with a unique database, given through social services, by which you know who needs it, when it has it and which association or entity gives you solution to your problem at the moment. That is why we must go to real, integral social policies, and not to old stories of old problems of old parties. In the 21st century we cannot be prisoners of the charity of the 19th century. Dignity and republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u14	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to give the figures because we all have them, but we need to remember a little bit what situation we are in right now. One in five Spaniards is in poverty or at risk of social exclusion and that must be said; child poverty has increased, school canteens have to be maintained during the summer so that children can eat three times a day; 2.2 million Spaniards survive thanks to social canteens, 2.2 million; 7.7 million tons of food we throw away, 7.7 million tons. The collaborators of the food banks - who are here with us - are always receiving non-perishable products, which are the ones who donate not only the entities but also all the citizens who, in solidarity, give food, but need more things: they need proteins, they need vegetables, they need fruit, they need milk, because the people to whom the food is given must give them a full menu, a proper menu. Moreover, as they say, they work voluntarily and with a lack of resources, at times they have to make titanic efforts to be able to push it forward, and although this is recognized with prizes, they must be given resources. This problem has gained importance not only in the social sphere but also in the economic and environmental fields in recent years, because 7.5 million tonnes of waste are many tonnes of solid waste. We have already had two weeks in which the PP is bringing us proposals for legislation which, frankly, are also limited, little work done and especially with little dialogue, with very little dialogue with parliamentary groups, with no dialogue with parliamentary groups. What they do is put a patch on a problem but they don't fix it. You said it yourself, it's a first step. Well, then let's take a good step, let's make a law fit. Virtually all of us are at work; let us make a law that works and solves the problem of waste and waste generated by waste. He's bringing us a copy. Bringing this in June I understand that it is acting like the bad student, the one who starts studying in June and thinks: I study two topics to see if with this I approve. As it goes wrong, we have to do continuous work, we have to study more legislation, we have to study success cases, as has also happened in France, and implement measures that we will bring in the period of amendments in order to be able to make a law in conditions. With regard to limiting donor responsibility, it was a measure to speed up and increase donations, but it was important that, thanks to the Act, food banks should also be allowed to increase their sources of supply, including catering, hotels, schools, hospitals, etc. Moreover, thanks be to God, they can be given fresh products, that is, they can be given the basic and necessary contribution to the nutritional balance of the families to which they are given such food, as well as to the social eaters, so that they do not have to buy those products in order to have a proper menu because they have them. That is why we are going to vote in favour, but we believe that it lacks measures to reduce, and we hope that once and for all, the waste of food and, therefore, to reduce also another important thing, the food waste, something we have committed ourselves to doing. We are missing environmental measures. The French have implemented an environmental code, in which they have included a subsection dealing with the fight against food waste, setting priorities to know what needs to be done at every moment to avoid food waste and thus solid waste. We also lack any reference to education, including in the Education Act an express mention of education for the fight of food waste. 70% of the food waste is produced in citizens' homes. To reduce this waste we have to work on three fronts. The first has already been done with what you have brought with you, with the distribution and restoration sector, but that accounts for 25% of the waste. Resources must be given to food banks and non-profit organizations, as well as to food distribution centres, because if the volume of donations increases, they will need more infrastructure, more human resources, more professionalization, they will need refrigerated trucks to transport and move the food. Who pays for this? Measures, such as fiscal measures, will have to be put in place to enable companies, depending on corporate social responsibility, to provide these organisations with infrastructure. In short, we believe that the last leg we have to work on is the change of habits in the consumption of families. There is a need to improve and encourage the proper purchase of food, to encourage responsible consumption and to avoid food waste, which in Spanish homes is approximately 32 kilos per inhabitant per year. Do you know how this is solved, gentlemen of the PP? Dialoging, talking and participating. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u16	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Belarra Urteaga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u17	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It is noted that it is a bill of great importance to judge by the enormous assistance in the People's Parliamentary Group. Today you bring here an initiative, a bill that talks about promoting, promoting or facilitating the donation of food. It is not the first time that the party in government has brought here an initiative that has as its sole and exclusive objective to whitewash its deserved image as an antisocial party and supporter of economic elites in our country. However, on this occasion it also does so after approving, just a few weeks ago, general state budgets that bring brutal cuts for the popular and middle classes of our country, with the investment, for example in education, lower for twenty years, after we have known last week that they have no intention of recovering the 60 billion euros from the rescue to the bank. And after all this, bringing this initiative to this House is little less than a lack of respect, when not a hairdo or a real insult to the citizens of our country. It is a lack of respect because this initiative mixes two issues that are very important for our country, which is key to tackle, but which do not solve to any extent the proposed law that you bring here today: on the one hand, the unsustainable poverty and exclusion rates that are experienced in our country, the fourth euro economy and, on the other hand, the issue of food waste in a world in which there are, as the previous comrades said, more than a billion people who go hungry and where almost a third of food is wasted or wasted before it is consumed by people. This initiative also shows a deep lack of awareness of poverty situations in our country and makes it perfectly visible that you see poverty as something that has to happen, whether or not, like water falling from the sky, rain or the sun. Last week, Foessa presented her 2017 report - I don't know if they've read it to them, but I recommend that they read it to them - in which she said that four out of ten households have seen the deterioration in the stability of their economic income during the crisis, how their ability to pay for children's educational reinforcements or household supplies has worsened; more than 5 million people in our country would have worsened their ability to cope with the purchase of the medicines they need. And that's not a coincidence, it's a direct consequence of the sloppy cuts policies that have been making for years and years. The crisis and its policies have literally - and I do not say so, says Foessa's report - taken forward the ability to resist many Spanish families. In the face of this extreme situation, the best thing you can think of is to bring here an initiative only to promote food donations. I would tell you to leave at once and let us legislate to ensure that poverty situations like this do not occur in our country, to really implement effective and fair redistributive policies for our people and to follow the European recommendations that already warn that food donations can never replace policies to combat poverty. [[Applauds]] In Spain we have a system of minimum incomes which, as you will know, is broken up, fragmented, with different criteria in the intensity of protection and access requirements, and you have let the autonomous and local administrations assume the fight against poverty alone, which is a matter of first order. We need - we believe this from our parliamentary group - a strong income guarantee system that faces the social crisis and the precariousness and instability of our people's vital paths. We need a shock plan to fight poverty and inequality with the coordination of all administrations, including the State Administration. We need measures built from a logic of social justice and not from the verticality of food banks. We want to accompany people in poverty to build a new account of the crisis, a new account that goes from 'you have lived above your possibilities' to 'you are stealing', which is what you have done with this country. We want to move from powerlessness and isolation to strengthening and collective organization. We do not want any more assistanceist measures that make the popular classes of our country feel victimized. The second problem that does not address or misapproach this proposed law is that of food waste. According to FAO, 13 billion tons of food are lost every year in the world, but what you do not say and what the Fusions project says is that in the European Union 53% of food is not wasted on wholesale - only 5% of food is wasted on wholesale - 53% of food is wasted on households. That is, that your star measure will not help the most needy, as you call them, nor will it avoid food waste; in short, it will serve almost nothing. From my group we understand that the management of food as individuals and as a society will largely define our health, our well-being and our ability to be respectful of the environment; that is why it is a matter of first order. We believe, as the European Union says, that the right to adequate food is being addressed by incorporating the right to adequate food into our legislation and public policies. It strives to sensitize and educate families to prevent them from wasting food in good condition. It is fought by improving labelling, making it easily understandable to consumers. There is a struggle to prevent food from being wasted for aesthetic reasons. There is a struggle to develop adequate food taxation to promote fresh, healthy and quality products and that families with fewer resources do not have to resort to overpacked, processed and less healthy products. It strives to promote proximity consumption, promoting short marketing circuits, where the products that are purchased are local and poorly processed. It seems rather like you, with your actions and with propositions of law like this, what you want is to continue to maintain solidarity based on charity. We want solidarity based on equal rights for all people. We do not want people in more precarious situations to have to resort to non-profit organizations. We do not want any more policies that favour the least and reduce the most; that favour healthy and healthy food for those who can afford it and packed and poor food for the poor. I think I'm not wrong if I say that this bill is going to be two things. On the one hand, an excessively broad and imprecise and therefore misadjusted regulation, where no distinction is made between the gentleman or lady carrying a potato tortilla to the Food and Market Bank or Carrefour. And, on the other hand, a pretty beneficial face wash, with tax exemptions included, for large supermarket brands. Can't you imagine the headlines next year? I can imagine them: Mercadona quintupulates its donations to food banks; Carrefour doubles the donation to food banks. How will we know that these foods are in good condition if all responsibility lies with the food banks? Is it perhaps not a way for supermarkets to free themselves from what is in bad shape, with great tax advantages? What controls will you establish to avoid wasting the same food while supermarkets boast of their solidarity? I wonder if you have friends - surely you do, because you have many friends - among the owners of those great supermarket brands. I tell you the truth, ladies and gentlemen, of the People's Party, all of this has a tuff that looks like they'd want social assistance back. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u18	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Tundor Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u19	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The waste of food is a matter and a State priority. We have to deal with it as a top political issue, and the Socialist Group has therefore put forward initiatives to take action against food waste in the Committee on Health and Social Policy and in the Committee on Agriculture, which have been approved. As a result, today we are discussing a less ambitious proposal which leaves much to be desired, put forward by the Group of the European People's Party. It is outrageous and shameful that there are more than 80 million people living below the poverty line in Europe as long as tons of food are discarded because of packaging failures, labelling or because they are close to the expiration date or do not meet the aesthetic and quality standards for sale. In 2012, the European Union generated 89 million tonnes of food waste per year, of which 7.7 million tonnes corresponded to Spain, as the seventh largest food-thirty country in Europe. 42% are discarded in our homes, more than 190 kilos per person; 25.5 million kilos of food are discarded each week. In the rest of the chain, the manufacturing phase would waste 39 %; restoration, 14 % and distribution, 5 %. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most macabre ironies of our time is that there are more than 800 million hungry people in the world and at the same time, one third of the food we produce ends up being wasted. 20% of all food produced in the European Union is wasted and approximately 10% of the European population cannot afford to buy quality food every two days. Moreover, in our country it is sadly common to see people searching in garbage containers to feed themselves. In a country with poverty it is a waste of food. The fight against food waste becomes a matter of decency and common sense. Undoubtedly, the first step is to raise awareness of this terrible nonsense. We have to get each and every one of us to stop squandering food, but that's not enough. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, FAO, consumers in countries with greater purchasing power waste the same amount of food as the total net production in sub-Saharan Africa. In addition, decreasing food loss and waste could contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as well as improving food access and adaptation of food systems to climate change. This reduction would result in an average annual savings of EUR 565 per household and environmental savings would be equivalent to the withdrawal of one in five vehicles in circulation. These exorbitant figures show the need to address food waste as a major problem. Meanwhile, the European Union has been left with simple recommendations: that member countries take the necessary measures to reduce food waste by half by 2030. France and Italy are the only countries with specific legislation. Since the adoption in February 2016 of the prohibition by law that supermarkets throw food and the obligation to give surpluses to NGOs and food banks, 10 million food rations have been donated in the Welsh country. In Italy the legislative text does not penalise supermarkets and focuses its efforts on tax advantages, reducing VAT, and reducing bureaucratic barriers to food-giving areas. In England, supermarket chains have been forced to make public the amount of food they throw and this was much higher than the statistics reflected. Only with transparency and real data can the debate take place on a problem whose magnitude must involve the whole of society. But hunger is not fought with charity. Active policies are needed to reduce poverty in Spain and it makes no sense for the People's Party in the 21st century to continue to talk about social assistance and guiding public policies as if they were charitable initiatives. For the Socialist Group, the defence of the welfare state is a priority in order not to return to the policy of charity and to that of a society of rights and guarantees. However, the fight against poverty also involves collective conduct that prevents the unjust waste of food. FAO points out that the mass production model of food is primarily responsible for waste; that food is thrown away in industrialized countries when production exceeds demand seems to be a basic principle. However, European countries only seem to be focused on what to do with surplus food, forgetting to reduce production at source. They also seem to overlook the amount of resources that eschews a model based on superproduction. But there are other causes that hinder donations, such as the labelling of food products, the confusion that this labelling generates in consumers or with quality standards that give rise to unnecessary discards. Also, the low cost of certain products often does not compensate for transport costs to pick-up points. It is clear from the Socialist Group that we must agree on measures with all the parties involved to make the fight against food waste a reality. In this sense, we have met with the OCU, with the Corporate Association of Restoration Brands and with different entities. We must encourage the reuse and recycling of surplus food products which are unfit for human consumption for processing into other products such as animal feed, composting or biogas production, etc. The Government cannot bring a toast to the sun, a declaration of unsolved intentions to the problems of food security that can arise and be held solely accountable to non-profit entities, which will be major actors in the implementation of this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, with this regulation they seem to have more intention of giving a holder than of facilitating this activity to be carried out with sufficient guarantees, leaving all the responsibility to those who altruistly lend themselves to making it possible. They are discouraging entities because they make them accountable and do not give them tools to carry them out with sufficient guarantees. In view of what you are presenting to us, I can assure you that the Socialist Group will work hard at the hands of the entities and companies involved to improve its proposal. As I said earlier, the Socialist Group has a very advanced work on this subject since the dialogue and with the aim of giving a real answer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - THE JOINT PARLIAMENT GROUP ON THE CRIMINAL REPRESENTATION OF THE ILLEGAL FINANCING OF POLITICAL PARTICULAR PARTIES [[ORGANISATION]] [[File number 122/000092]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u20	We then discuss the proposed law of the Joint Parliamentary Group on criminal repression of the illegal financing of political parties. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the concern of the Spanish people about cases of corruption and fraud comes from a long time, unfortunately, but more than 12 points have been fired in the last month than the previous month, according to the CIS barometer, coinciding precisely with the media peak of the last known case of corruption, the Lezo case, which affects one of the political parties in this country and which has also contaminated other institutions. What do we really do to combat corruption from within institutions and political parties? What are we doing? The general elections held on 20 December 2015 meant, for the first time in a long time, the emergence of a true pluralism where all political formations count and where parliamentary rolls no longer work. This situation, in which dialogue and consensus are necessary to obtain majorities, allows us to attend without further delay to the cry that comes from the street and that could be summed up in a simple phrase: do not allow any party to steal. This cry is also saying that no party should be allowed to do so electorally, to cheat, to inflate its accounts fraudulently, that a party lacks its very essence, in short. This is the popular mandate that we, since Compromís, want to implement. But the reality is that the cases of illegal party financing that we have known so far appear through complex B accounting structures, black payments, fake bills, whitewashing, which are systems that force everyone to be in garlic and that, once proven to be effective, pass from treasurer to treasurer as if it were a family recipe. An advanced society cannot afford in the 21st century to have extremely serious and age-old failures of control. Cases of illegal financing undermine the interests of the citizenry because they cause the parties to abandon the commitments entered into with the society and sell the common resources to the best bidder: finger auctions, officials working for the running candidate, corrections and urban plans, contracts and swollen invoices. All this is what we find in the cases that are currently in the courts, Gürtel, Púnica, Imelsa, and all this they do with the money of the citizens; money that ends up in boxes B, in envelopes that are delivered under hand and in opaque accounts in tax havens; money that stops investing to reduce waiting lists in hospitals, to increase university scholarships or to remove pharmaceutical rest, among many other important destinations. In fact, we can quantify it so we can get an idea of how much money they steal from us all and know what we could have done with that money. Look, the National Commission on Markets and Competition ensures that corruption costs us 90 billion durum a year in Spain. Do you know what that money's for? For example, EUR 90 billion is 18 000 new schools; they are 255 new hospitals; they are the end of the waiting lists for aid to the unit; they are nothing less than being able to replenish the pension pool and yet we would have 30 billion left. In addition to the systematic scam to thicken the party's accounts, illegal financing also translates into authoritarianism that is perpetuated in power, because it allows to get out doped to the field of electoral play and, therefore, it is not surprising that many of the criminal plots that have lasted so far began, precisely, in the heat of electoral campaigns. I recently remembered a phrase by Pablo Escobar, a famous drug dealer, who said: the day he goes to do something wrong, do it well. I have remembered this, because this council has been literally followed by the builders of mafia plots and also by the builders of plots of political corruption; networks that have become more sophisticated, more slippery and that have led to corruption in this country at industrial levels, because what we have here is a well-oiled assembly chain, which is built in the offices and extends to the construction, organization of events, online reputation, waste management or training courses. And let me also make mine the words of a great Uruguayan politician, José Mújica, who claims that the dirty economy, drug trafficking, fraud, fraud, corruption, are contemporary plagues sheltered by that antivalue, the one who claims that we are happier if we enrich ourselves anyway. Precisely in order to deal with this anti-value, to stop and, above all, to end the impunity that is protected under the partisan acronyms, it is necessary to establish legal mechanisms that recognize, in a clear and unambiguous way, the possibility of suspending or dissolving the parties that are financed illegally. Under Organic Law 1/2015 of 30 March, the offence of illegal financing of autonomous political parties was introduced through the drafting of a new title 13 bis of Book II of the Criminal Code, which included articles 304 bis and 304 ter, with a somewhat strange systematic commitment to socio-economic crimes, when it should be among the offences against the public administration or even among the offences against the Constitution. In order to assess whether the autonomous criminalization of the crime of illegal financing of political parties is necessary or not, we must verify whether or not there is any specific legal asset worthy of criminal protection. As you know, article 6 of our Constitution, in a dialectical consideration of the political phenomenon, attributes to the parties the function of attending the formation and manifestation of the popular will. They are therefore an expression of pluralism and fundamental instruments of participation, without prejudice to the mechanisms of direct participation which are also provided for in article 23 of the Constitution. Well, corruption makes the economic sectors the ones that impose real political programmes. Certain illegal financing behaviours can make the actual programme of the political party not the one that has truly been offered to the citizens and to whom they have voted, thus having a serious disturbance of the functions of formation and manifestation of the popular will. Arrived here, we can already say that the directly protected legal good must be identified with the free participation of political parties on conditions of equal opportunity, because the illegal financing of a political party is not only a matter of mere accounting, but also undermines the very essence of democracy, because it disrupts those functions of service to the citizens who fulfil the parties, who are not mere private associations but those who deserve enhanced protection. We have, as I said, a reform of the Criminal Code that was addressed in 2015, which is an insufficient, ineffective, contradictory and full of gaps from a legal and practical point of view. Compromis is against legislative patches, because they remove coherence from the penal system, and now we come here to raise exactly the opposite of a patch. We want to help finish the task that was left unfinished in 2015. We have, on the one hand, an article, the 304 bis, which is designed for artisanal corruption - the one where there is a hand that gives and another that receives - and represses already consummated behaviors. It is a criminalized administrative offence and only reaches some criminal modalities of those provided for in the Organic Law 8/2007 of 4 July on the Financing of Political Parties. In this way, it is permitted - among other things - that the guilty party may be dissolved or suspended in its activities. On the other hand, article 304 ter is designed for a different factual assumption, for network corruption. This article does not punish rotten apples, but a parallel institution that is supposed to be a real mafia. That article - which is now the one we intend to reform - is for when it is verified that a party is really nothing more than a pile of garbage. In that case, the meaning of article 304 ter, which does not require a complete defrauding result, but merely participation in the plot, even if there is no accredited benefit, can be perfectly understood. Moreover, the modalities of illegal financing that it punishes are not limited, as is the case under article 304 bis, but anyone who contravenes existing laws in this area is punished; also, for example, the Organic Law on General Electoral Regime. In addition, article 304 ter imposes penological impairment on the plot, is punished even if it is temporarily inactive and, finally, the penalty is different from that of article 304 bis and higher, because obviously setting up a plot is considered a more serious act, which is logical. This scheme justifies that article 304 must be completed with what is lacking, which is the expectation of dissolution or suspension of the responsible party, because the political organization should not be left out of punishment when it is clear that either it organized an internal plot to be financed illegally, or it took advantage of some pre-existing plot. In conclusion, I will tell you that public opinion demands the definitive closure of the anti-corruption circle in political parties, something that Compromís has already pointed out in the discussions leading up to the 2015 reform. Ladies and gentlemen, I had promised not to name the People's Party in this speech, because I have a proposal to look to the future, but I cannot avoid it in the face of the lack of will in this party to change and regenerate. You are being cornered, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and you do not want to see it, and this is not only the merit of Compromises and other formations, but also of your own blindness, because it is not isolated cases or personal matters of punctual members; it is an act that has served as a corrupt entanglement to finance itself. Yesterday we saw an example of this during the appearance of Barcenas, in which the law of the omerta, the code of the silence of the appearance, reigned. We can also describe Mr Rajoy's strategy - also absent today - that dirty rags wash at home, but quiet, this proposal - what is being debated today - does not affect them, because you already know that the Criminal Code is not a retroactive law. [[Rumors]] What we want is for citizens to see that we are here to do something positive. We understand that it is important that this proposal for a law should have the vote of all of you, and yes, Mr Rajoy - also absent now - indeed, we are only four Valencian Members compared to the one hundred and thirty-seven of the People's Party, but this does not mean that you are better, because we are all worth the same, although fortunately not all of us are the same. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u23	Thank you very much, President. We are presented with a proposal for a law amending article 304 ter of the Criminal Code for the criminal repression of any case of illegal financing of political parties. We have already pointed out from this preliminary point of view that this is not the time for us to enter into criminal reforms that extend the punitive nature of some conduct of illegal financing, not so much for the substance of the matter, but, as we said, for the moment chosen. As is well known, a subcommittee has been set up to study the legal and functioning regime of political parties and proposals for their reform within the Commission for Democratic Quality and the Fight against Corruption. It is in this subcommission that twenty experts have appeared - they have already finished their appearances - who have illustrated to us the reforms that they believe should be formulated on the financing of political parties. Three of them have specifically addressed the criminal dimension that certain conducts must entail for political parties, as well as the assessment of the current regulation contained in articles 304 bis and ter of the Criminal Code and its possible reforms, both to remove or add them and to transfer them from a systematic location in that sanctioning code. We are therefore at the moment of drawing up an opinion on the reforms which, if necessary, should be introduced into the Criminal Code, among other things, but all of them relating to the financing and legal regime of political parties, an opinion which will have to come to this plenary for adoption immediately thereafter. That is why we said that this was not the time, in our view it is clear, to put forward a project such as the one we are now debating; in short, and to be graphic, it is about not putting the cart in front of the oxen. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, we believe that the criminal regulation of the illegal financing of political parties requires a broader and more systematic view than that contained in the draft law, which is precisely based on the current regulation and which has been described quite unanimously as a very bad regulation, as suggested to us by the representatives of the subcommission, starting, as has already been pointed out, by the systematic location of the criminal types in attention to the protected legal good and which are today decentralized, with serious legal-penal consequences. It is also a regulation that can be improved by the content of both article 304 bis and article 304 ter, since administrative illegalities of the Organic Law on the Financing of Political Parties are superimposed on criminal offences by establishing criminal conduct by reference to conduct of administrative laws. Moreover, it is also possible to make an improved regulation of the current criminal rates both by excess and by default of them, which are certainly improveable, not to mention the poorly fulfilled principle of taxation. Perhaps all this has been the result of a regulation which, by dragging its feet, has been developed as a support for administrative legislation. Thus, in 2012, the criminal responsibility of the political party is introduced, provided that someone acts on their behalf and on behalf of the party or the political party does not have enough control and surveillance to prevent a crime from being committed. This regulation of 2012 was made two years later and the way in 2010 the criminal liability of legal persons was established, although it is finally in 2015 when illegal financing is envisaged as a crime, as it had been claimed from time ago politically and doctrinally, but, as I have already pointed out and indicated to us by the rapporteurs in the subcommission, with manifest imperfections and that now, after the work of the subcommission for the reform of the legal regime and financing of political parties, we will be in a position to solve in a systematic and comprehensive way, without patches. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u24	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u25	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to extend much and I am going to be brief, without surely consuming the time I have planned. I would just like to comment that our group will vote in favour of taking into consideration the proposal for a law presented by the Joint Group on criminal repression of the illegal financing of political parties, but, yes, matifying - what has been specified a moment ago by the PNV colleague - which is a small contribution when it is a much more complex problem and which can be attacked from different fronts. It is therefore necessary to take into account any conclusions that may be drawn from the subcommission. It is clear that the current legislative framework focuses mainly on penalizing those individuals who have participated in structures and organisations for the illegal financing of political parties, taking the issue of illegal financing as a very personal, very personal and isolated fact, as if it were really a simple isolated, anecdotal fact. The problem is when it is the party itself, the organization itself, who organizes the funding networks and, therefore, we are already talking about professionalization or stigmatization. It is no longer an isolated case, but illegal practice is part of the party's own structure and strategy. As much as individuals who commit illegality are penalized, it does not prevent the party's own bad practice, because it is already an endemic, structural problem. We have numerous examples of parties with all their execs prosecuted for illegal financing. In this case it is no longer only the individual responsibility of the defendant, but the party itself that has perpetuated this illegal practice has benefited and must therefore assume the responsibility and consequences that all this entails. It is no longer a problem that one can focus on a Turkish head, as is usually called, but the responsibility has to be of the organization itself. The proposal, therefore, seeks to delimit the margin of these structures of illegal financing created by the parties themselves by extending criminal repression to legal persons who are involved in illegality. One of the great problems will be to identify the responsibility of the facts, how one can come to the responsibility of the facts of the party itself. As discussed in the Sub-Committee on Regime and Financing of Political Parties, within the Committee on Democratic Quality, Anti-Corruption and Institutional Reforms, in order to be more effective, we should not only be limited to strictly criminal measures and in the face of clearly completed facts, but also preventive or dissuasive measures, such as marking a ceiling on the indebtedness of parties with consequences for public funding or improving transparency in the accounts transferred to the Court of Auditors. It is a much more complex issue that requires transversality. In any case, I repeat that the proposal for us is a small step forward and we will therefore vote in favour. We simply have to bear in mind that we would not like to see this alone, but that once the Commission's conclusions have been incorporated, it would be important to raise seriously one of the problems that currently determines the whole issue of political parties. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u26	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cantó García del Moral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u27	Thank you, President. We are talking about a very important, very serious issue, the irregular financing of the parties. Yesterday, at the appearance of Mr Bárcenas in that Commission which was created by the irregular financing of the People's Party, we recalled the economic, institutional and democratic cost to our country of corruption. During the years in which corruption has been rampant in our country, corruption, and especially with irregular bidding, has had an unorbiting cost in our country. Please note that with all that we have spent on corruption, with all that has come to the side of irregular bidding - lack of competitiveness, costs, etc. - we have spent in recent years on corruption and irregular bidding almost half every year of what we spend on paying pensions. It's a real barbarity! It also has other side effects: we lose competitiveness and our citizens are less and less trusting in democratic institutions, because parties that were doped up to the elections, what they have done in the end is pervert the democratic system. We are in favour, Mr de Compromís, of legislating so that this sad story that has happened in Spain will not be repeated. In fact, Mr Baldoví, we are so in favour that we have already done so, look at you. [[Applauds]] I am afraid that in this sense it happens a little to you as your partners in Podemos, who come here to present proposals that are already under way and under way. We will vote in favour, yes, and we will try to complete and improve your proposal and I will now explain why. Before that, if we continue with this proposal, we may have to vote, debate and amend here things that are already being done in the Congress of Deputies. I'll give you a couple of important examples. Firstly, the Commission against Corruption and for the democratic regeneration that my party chairs and promotes, is holding a series of appearances in the subcommittee in which dozens of experts are explaining to us how to tackle the issue of irregular financing of political parties. We do not understand very well why you are presenting this proposal here if after the summer we will see an opinion with all the proposals of the best Spanish and European experts on financing. From here I invite you, Mr Baldoví, since you are not in this subcommittee - I suppose you each have your favorite committees; the fact is that the favorite for you has not been the one talking about irregular funding, however much you now present this proposal - I really suppose on behalf of many other parliamentary groups, I invite you to present your text and to add it, we are generous, we will accept your amendments and we will vote on them here in plenary. [[Applauds]] I will go first, before the proposal you bring, to what the subcommittee says, because I would like to explain a couple of things to you. In that subcommittee the experts will talk a lot - and you will be able to read it - about how to equal - that is the concern in Europe and Spain - public and private funding, and in that let me take out a little breast because I think we are one of the parties that best compensated has that system. Our public offices give a small percentage of the salary to the party and we also have some hard-working and hard-working affiliates who are the most paying their political party in this country, but they also tell us about expenditure control, transparency, donation control, which is one of the important issues, the new challenge of crowdfunding, etc. I say this because your proposal, Mr de Compromís, is a lot to prohibit, but little to propose. I can devote myself to banning all funding for political parties, but if I do not propose the alternative for political parties to finance themselves, I am starting to create a problem. By the way, this proposal that you are bringing here, if it comes to a successful conclusion, can be carried out because there is a government, Mr de Compromís, and I say this because you have so far voted against all the possibilities of government that have been presented in this House and without a government we cannot improve anything in this country. [[Applauds]] In fact, if we manage to do something to improve the funding of political parties, look at you, it will be up to you, because you did not want anyone to rule in this country. It doesn't surprise me very much that you want to destroy rather than build, because it's very his style. His style is to always blame Madrid. You blame Madrid, that kind of nationalist mantra that you use, implicitly recognizing, yes, that your Government of the Valencian Community is irrelevant. They blame Madrid for coming to Madrid, that's right, to charge the salary of Madrid, that's fine - don't make any gestures, Mr. Baldoví - but they don't do anything here to improve the lives of the Valencians. [[Mr. Baldoví Roda: Like you!]] You have not sat down for a second to work and to negotiate with the People's Party and get what we have achieved: improvements for the autonomous Valencians, improvements for the Valencian childhood and improvements for the young Valencians and their salary supplement. Even improvements - EUR 100 million - for this, to combat irregular financing of political parties. [[Applauds]] Finally, I would like to give an example of the spirit of your proposal. Yesterday I heard your leader, Monica Oltra, say that what you want is for the PP to disappear. We are not sure that the best favor that can be done to the Spaniards is that the PP disappears. In fact, look, Mr Baldoví, what cost the PP to turn AP into PP. He did it without squeezing, he had no problem. No, we want to win in the ballot box to the PP, yes, but, as far as corruption is concerned, Mr Baldoví, what we want is for the PP to pay what it owes. We want the PSOE to pay what it owes. We want Convergence and Union to pay what it owes. [[Applauds]] That is why we want political parties to be subsidiary responsible for what they do in their public office and do what all Spaniards ask over and over again, because, when they talk about corruption, what they want, beyond going to jail, of course, is that they pay what they owe. What they tell me on the street every day is, pay what they owe, Toni! That's what we want, what Citizens want. [[Applauds]] In fact, the last thing you have supported - you are always in the no is no - has been a proposal last week in favor of the secessionists. Look at the madness, gentlemen of Compromise. They are talking about bringing a text to punish the illegal financing of the parties and last week they supported those parties that want to carry out illegalities. It's a little crazy what they're doing. In fact, do you not believe that those secessionist political parties that supported last week want secession in order to obtain impunity? Don't you think that's what you want? [[Applauds]] We believe it. One of two, gentlemen of Compromises, supporting them either you are naive or, worse still, you also want impunity. Speaking of regeneration - do not take your hands to your head, Mr Baldoví, which I will give you a very clear example - regeneration is demonstrated by working, voting. Do you know how it doesn't prove itself? By announcing that they are going to vote against our proposal to put an end to the havoc in the Valencian Community. [[Applauds]] Thus no regenerating spirit is shown. I'm done, Madam President. In any case, thank you very much for contacting us and asking us, as you have done, to present this proposal together with you. We shouldn't be so bad. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u28	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Guijarro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u29	Thank you, Madam President. On March 30, 2015, this House approved Organic Law 1/2015 at the initiative of the People's Group. It for the first time criminalized crimes associated with the irregular financing of political parties. Since then, this measure has been implemented by the People's Party with a strong insistence as an irrefutable proof of its firm commitment to the fight against corruption, that social scourge, we would say even moral, that our country is suffering today. The adoption of this law complemented the Organic Law 8/2007 of 4 July 2007 on the Financing of Political Parties, a law adopted by the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero that updated the law of 1987, which already made a clear distinction and differentiated treatment between public and private resources of the parties. This new law of 2007, even though it only provided for administrative sanctions, already qualified in its article 5 as very serious violations of donations to parties. Let us remember, however, the context in which the March 2015 law was discussed and adopted. It has only been two years, ladies and gentlemen; I hardly ask for a minimum mental effort. Nine days before its approval, the investigating judge of the Central Court No. 5 of the National Court ended the stage of investigation of the separate piece of the Gürtel on box B of the PP, the already historical, we could almost say iconic, Bárcenas papers. In addition to giving evidence of very serious acts of corruption affecting - which affect - the state leadership of the most powerful party in Spain, the car then published drew attention to its inability to charge criminally for certain behaviors proven in the absence of legal instruments to do so. It should also be recalled that the signatory of that order, Judge Ruz, gave prescribed grounds for certain offences on which there was, however, sufficient evidence to be tried, two omissions which the People's Party may benefit from in court but which are retrieving and accumulating to the already long inventory in this parliamentary seat. Legal responsibilities in the face of political responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen, a difference on which I will stop later. The process of this law had begun seventeen months earlier, in October 2013. Do you remember that year? That year began with scandalous information bursting from the media on the management of a parallel accounting or B box by Mr. Luis Bárcenas Gutiérrez, at the time manager and then treasurer of the PP at the state level. Of course, the Spanish women already came with tanned skin after having followed with stupefaction first and with a huge indignation after the evolutions of the Gürtel, a case that already accumulated a period of instruction of more than four years. Looking at it now with perspective we can say that that plot Gürtel served as a sort of thread of Ariadna from which he has been pulling little by little to expose a whole maze of rottenness and corruption. We first discovered the modus operandi of a criminal organization, but until then it gave the impression that the party had been parasitized by this organization, in which it might seem that some apples of the People's Party would have succumbed to the temptations of a Berlinguian hunter and casino. But the Gürtel led us to Bárcenes and Bárcenes changed the approach or, rather, the scale; it transformed the dimensions of the problem and did so to the extent that everything currently indicates that the parasite, the criminal organization itself, could correspond to the same dome of the People's Party, which would also have sustained these corrupt practices over time as a continuous crime since we do not know very well when. Throughout the year 2013, the Bárcenas case was unfolding at a periodicization rate. The statement arrived before the judge on 16 July, extra-accountable accounting seats are being credited, Mr.Bárcenas said, an oxymoron that only the most refined intelligence can not confuse. Up to 64 well-founded seats appear: Villar Mir, Juan Roig, José Mayor, Ignacio López del Hierro; finally, a list of names. In July, the payment of bonuses came to public attention; in September, it was known that even Genoa's very headquarters would have been paid with black money; that year, the Greek report of the European Union warned Spain of how much it had left to catch up on the issue of party financing control. Well, when the PP began the process for the adoption of this bill, in October 2013, it had not even foreseen the incorporation of the crime of illegal financing. This carelessness should have been remedied in December 2014 with the amendment 886 tabled by the People's Party itself, since the level of citizen goat continued to increase, with historical peaks also in 2014, another year for the black history of Spanish politics. In March of that year, then Senator Granados admitted accounts in Switzerland, in July Mr. Jaume Matas was in prison for the Palma Arena case and in October the judge held Blesa and Rat responsible for the expenses associated with the Black cards. It is not surprising, therefore, that in December 2014 the CIS collected the high point of the entire historical series on corruption as one of the country's main problems, up to 60% of the respondents cited this scourge when just two years earlier this figure was ranging from 17 to 20 %. And it is that after so many years of reporting against his party, the strategy of doing nothing and waiting so proper to the president of the government was no longer enough, something had to be done. In the midst of a massive rain of cases and headlines, the Organic Law of 2015 was finally adopted, which introduced in the Penal Code articles 304 bis and 304 ter, of which has already been spoken profusely. If we were to bring this initiative to fruition, we would be empowering judges and courts to impose sanctions also on legal persons acting to illegally finance a party, as well as to impose the same penalties provided for in article 33.7 (b) and (g). Therefore count, compañeras and compañeros of Compromís, with our favorable vote for their processing. They also count on our efforts in the legislative development of this initiative if we succeed in bringing it forward today, because this would open up the possibility of criminalization of illicits that were already contemplated in 2007 and that, in our view, are as reprehensible and punishable as the donations that any other party may receive. On the other hand, in the light of the recent cases tried and following the study of the most effective anti-corruption legislation in our environment, we believe that a debate should also be opened on the establishment of minimum limits for sanctioning donations. In this sense, it has been shown that perhaps the limit of the current EUR 50 000 is easily eludable by way of fractionation, so we must also look for control devices for these practices - I am now finishing, Madam President -. The Organic Law of March 2015 which is intended to be amended here today was only the attempt of a government harassed by corruption to gain credibility in the face of a tired citizenry and a European environment rather than an outcast, but for this it was used by an absolute majority that allowed it to approve a partial reform, an insufficient reform, a reform that we can deepen today but that already at least allowed to act against the political parties on the basis of facts that today have been proved as certain by the courts. In fact, if this law were applied retroactively, it would most likely mean that the PP...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u30	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u31	Yes, President, I'm done. ... would face penalties such as suspension of activities, closure of its premises, judicial intervention or dissolution of its legal personality. Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party dissolved or in the hands of a judicial administration? Political parties continue to be private associations, and for some time now they can be dissolved or intervened through illegal financing. We've seen it before with companies, foundations or even sports clubs. However, the parties play a key instrumental role in a democracy, so that their public purposes must be respected while being monitored and cleared with special care for other private purposes. When this fails, it is the legitimacy of the State itself that is affected, which is why the parties have a subsequent responsibility that requires us to go beyond the legal limits by which the rest of the associations are governed. What, then, would happen if the courts gave evidence that unequivocally corresponds to the People's Party and that today are already very serious crimes punishable by the cessation of activities or the dissolution of a party? Should we not, perhaps, by virtue of this principle of democratic health, call it political responsibility to demand the resignation of the Government as a whole? Is this not what is already happening in Spain, ladies and gentlemen? Does anyone in this country already doubt that the People's Party, to a greater or lesser extent - that is precisely what the judges are doing, in determining the measure - has been irregularly financing itself at the cost of public money and altering the rules of electoral competition by turning to the ballot box, as has already been said? However, the resignation of the present government, even that of one of its ministers...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u32	Your Honor, you've been out of time for three minutes. I remind you it has to end.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u33	Okay, president, that's the last sentence. I just wanted to say that the resignation of the President of the Government or of one of his ministers is not and is not expected. This is what this Government has understood so far for political responsibility, which is the same as saying that you have understood nothing, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u34	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Hernanz Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Let us go on to say that the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour of taking into account this proposal for a law put forward by Compromís, which seeks to add a paragraph 4 to Article 304b of the Criminal Code and which seeks to fill a gap, a legal gap, despite the fact that in our parliamentary group we consider its wording and incardination in the legal text to be improved, which we hope we can do in the joint work in the Commission. And I say that we will vote in favour of its consideration because we want and believe that it is essential that its debate in the Commission be possible in order to clarify and harden the criminalization of the illegal financing of political parties, diluted and tempered in an insufficient regulation that appears for the first time in the reform of the Criminal Code of 2015, when corruption is already one of the main problems for the citizens of this country. The illegal financing of political parties is in many cases linked to corruption, as we were able to see yesterday in this parliamentary seat and in the course of the Commission of Inquiry with the shameful pact of silence between the People's Party and its former Bárcenas. You see, as my partner Rodriguez said, what happened yesterday was that of being strong. Expecting the People's Party Government to provide a clear and forceful persecution of the illegal financing of political parties is like expecting the wolf to take care of the sheep. The commonwealth of the People's Party to fight corruption has already become the sad oxymoron that will mark the history of this democratic period. We are convinced that once we are able to move on and oxygenate and regenerate the political life of this country, we will look with blush and shame at this period, with more blush and more shame if it depends on what we feel day by day and, above all, on what millions of citizens feel every day in this country. The People's Party has never intended to harshly and effectively pursue the illegal financing of political parties, for obvious reasons: when, on 20 September 2013, the Council of Ministers approved the referral to the courts of the draft law on the reform of the Criminal Code, it did not say a single word on the criminalization of the crime of illegal financing of political parties and only subsequently and through amendments following the submission by the Socialist Party of a bill criminalizing the illegal financing of political parties, which called for the punishment of both the financier and the financier, and ensured the return of the amounts unduly received. In this way, by means of amendments, the Government decides to include the criminalization of this crime, and does so through amendments, as I say, to ensure that it is removed from the control and report of the Council of State, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Fiscal Council and any body that should have reported the original draft, thereby guaranteeing a definition to the extent that, for example, a person who receives or delivers illegal donations not exceeding EUR 500 000, even in B money, an exorbitant amount and which coincides with Mr Bárcenas's list of donors, is exempted from prison. None of them donated more than 500 000 euros, none of them going to jail. And since we in the Socialist Group do not believe in coincidences, we are convinced that this is simply a custom-made suit; a custom-made suit and a legal barbarity, but above all a political and democratic one. Because, frankly, can anyone in this House argue that the crime of illegal financing of political parties can be settled with a mere fine if the donation amounts only to EUR 499 000 and even if we are talking about money B? It is impossible to disagree that the regulation of illegal financing of political parties should be changed, hardened and clarified. It is true that we believe that this change should go beyond what was proposed by Compromís, in the sense of the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party in 2013. Yesterday, at the height of cynicism and political courage, the spokesman of the People's Party in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, Mr Rojas, asked the rest of the parliamentary spokespersons: How long will political life continue to be embarrassed? The spokesman for the Gürtel party, for Box B, for the banknotes in cigar boxes, for the pitufeure, for the Punic, for Operation Lezo, for Operation Auditorium, for the party that has five of its execs imputed in a clear example of how impunity always gives way to decoque and shame. In short, it seems to us that the proposal that the Compromise Group is bringing to the debate today, while effectively covering a legal gap, can be improved to the extent that we in the Commission can work together to, as I say, improve the poor definition of the crime of illegal financing of political parties approved in its day by the back door and almost pushed by the People's Party. That is why we want to work with the rest of the political groups and clarify the definition of this criminalization of the illegal financing of political parties and harden their sentences, both the main ones and the accessories. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs Moro Almaraz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Singed, before continuing, alleged, right?, alleged funding. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] That is what I want from a chairman of my Democratic Quality Commission. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bataller, you are not bringing here today an initiative to improve the response of our legal system to the illegal financing of political parties, although you have tried to conceal it to the end and have not been able to. You, your political group on behalf of which you are speaking, really do not care that this is a lack of respect for parliamentary work - and you have already said this - a Commission set up by agreement of the whole parliamentary arc, a subcommittee which has concluded its appearances on this matter and which is - we are - working on a report of conclusions and proposals. You, this time instead of Mr Baldoví, come once again to put on your t-shirt and here, in the Chamber, to take it off, to fulfill its theatrical function and its dose of ego; everything else does not matter, that is, with the softer, more professional tone, typical of Mr Bataller. You don't care if I tell you that you really don't bring here but some kind of unique criminal law rejected, as you know, by the Constitutional Court. You, you, are not interested in the conclusions to offer a better legal order that once and for all presents a deterrent and sanctioning framework adapted to what all political forces want to offer to citizens: trust in effective and robust institutions and instruments to end corruption. He has disguised it once again; you know what is said: excusatio non petita... You're not interested because you're not even interested in looking in the mirror and seeing yourself, because I don't know if you're going to be able to keep your eyes on that mirror. Have you been concerned in your group and with your leader to assess whether this amendment or other rules are appropriate for Mr Baldoví to respond to his behaviour in the exercise of his public functions? Are you clear about your urban activities in Sweden? [[Applauds]] The Syndic has regretted the repeated non-compliance by the Consistory that you presided over and denounced numerous irregularities in your actions. Maybe that's why you didn't come down today to defend her, Mr. Baldoví? Is that why the gentlemen of Podemos speak for you? Imagine that I am another, an opposition deputy, that I am right now, and that I tell you how you can come to keep the speech you keep without first looking into that mirror. What's more, I would have to tell you - and I don't do it because I'm not an opposition deputy - that you, your leader, Mr. Baldoví, are delinquent, that you are corrupt, because according to the media the prosecution is investigating you and that you come here to give us lessons in the fight against corruption, you who have been considered the most opaque mayor of the Valencian Community and who never handed over your accounts in time and form. [[Applauds]] Or he would have to tell you about his favoritism in treating his brother in paying overtime during his municipal management. What do you think? Bad, right? I don't doubt it. Yesterday, and still with a softer tone, some members of the opposition lost the roles, perhaps trying to continue to make a place in the new PSOE, because it is inexplicable so much lies, so much aggression and so much anger. Like these people, you, gentlemen of Compromís, pretend to be a police officer, prosecutor, instructor and judge who makes a final judgment at the same time. If that is the way to make new policy you should reflect because what you sponsor is, I say, a reprehensible way to make policy through an instrumentalization of justice and law. It is really intended - that is its objective - to alter a democratic result by force of promoting actions and extrapolating to the procedure its accusations without proof to raise them to the category of absolute. Mr Bataller, Mr Baldoví, are you sure you want your father, your brother or, without children, your children to receive the medicine that some of you give to the members of the People's Party? I don't think so. I want it to be very clear to you and to everyone that, as much as they keep repeating a lie, it's not going to turn into truth. No judge has said that the People's Party is a criminal organization. You, some of your party, some of other assimilated parties and associations talk about it, want that and use it as a political weapon, desperate, in the face of your inability to offer the Spaniards a coherent political project. No judge has handed down a judgment on that which you are giving for some illegal financing of the People's Party. There is no illegal funding from the People's Party. You only learned one class in philosophy, that the end justifies the means, any means. But they're really wrong and they know it perfectly well. It can happen in a family that there is a criminal, but that's not why the family is criminal. The People's Party is not a criminal organization, it is not a plot, it has not participated in any plot. Today, if you could, some of you who gloat so much in these phrases should give up your immunity. Oh, but they can't. Because there is nothing to justify that the president of my party, his militants, his public office and our voters have to be insulted in this way so that you get headlines, hours of audience and some, who knows, a position in the leadership of the group. [[Apclaims.-A lady MP: Bravo!]] Imagine that this afternoon I lose my mind and say that as Compromís is a corrupt party, how he can come here to teach us lessons, how he can teach us lessons when he has members of his party investigated. Mr Bataller, Mr Baldoví, I'm sure someone doesn't like what I'm going to say, but I've been taught this way and my party president always does it firmly: you, you, have the right to the presumption of innocence, you have the right to defend yourself, to a fair trial, to follow the trials with all the guarantees for you, the investigations, the investigation and the trial, if that were the case. You and your families have the right to honour, to be treated with respect, to not pass the evidence directly to a final judgment, to apply the law - that is to say - and to be tried and sentenced as appropriate, but by the courts. Tell the Spaniards that they don't mind solving their problems, that they just want to unravel the government because they don't respect the opinion of the Spaniards. Tell them they want to use the Penal Code as an instrument against the adversary. [[Mr Baldoví Roda asks for the floor]] Oh, what then isn't true what they said? What did they want to talk about, but that they're left with nothing? What's breaking the law? They don't care if they all go against the People's Party, against the president who has worked for all the Spaniards and who has taken this country out of the deep ditch in which it was. That's what they're worth. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not want any corruption in politics, in their parties or in ours, especially in ours, but this is not the way to do it. Once a judge told me that his system was to make judgments and then write; once the judgment was drafted, look for legal arguments. I came out terrified of the meeting, as you can imagine; that is, with the conviction that there are black sheep everywhere, but that this was the exception. That's what I'm asking of you. Many justice professionals today look at you terrified; they look at you terrified because you want to be judges and to be a judge you have to study a lot, you have to work a lot, you have to have a lot of temperance. Be brave and propose that when a false accusation, defamation, political alteration to reach a municipal or autonomous government is made use of the courts, that, in the same procedure that is then dismissed or when there is an absolute absolution, there be consequences for the representatives of the party or for that political party that has protected it. Thus, without insults, with a cold head, with rigour, with the objective set in rules that are for everyone and for greater confidence in citizens and political parties, they will find us. We, Mr de Compromís, Mr Socialists, were always there; you did not support a rule that can be improved, but you did not support it, there is one. And when they ruled and were in a position to approve it, they didn't. Thank you very much. [[Mr Baldoví Roda asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u38	Yes, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u39	By allusions, I welcome Article 71. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u40	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u41	For personal allusions, I welcome article 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u42	You tell us why you've been alluded to.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u43	Because the spokeswoman of the People's Party has made personal allusions to my career as mayor at the Swedish City Hall. [[Rumors.-Protests.-Mrs. Moro Almaraz asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u44	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Moro. [[Mr Baldoví Roda, standing, asks for the floor]] You may sit down, Your Honor. [[Mr. Baldoví Roda: Can't I talk?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u45	I have simply referred to news in the press. I said that we are never going to condemn for news in the press or for the indication of funding. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause.- Mr Baldoví Roda asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u46	Your Honor, you have already had your turn and you have received an answer. There is no further interpretation of this article of the Rules of Procedure. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u47	We turn to item II of the agenda, on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, concerning the road and legal safety of cyclists on our roads. Mrs Rivera Andrés has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u48	Thank you very much, President. Aitor Martínez was broken by remembering his companion Jesus Black of Peace and that fateful February 25, 2016, in which they barely carried a kilometer of VA-30 when a truck invaded the road through which the two cyclists were travelling. The Civil Guard told us that the driver was lost and that he did not step on the brake, explains Aitor when he remembered the moment when the vehicle, after a steering wheel, hit them more than 90 kilometers an hour. He suffered serious injuries, broke several ribs, removed his spleen and spent almost a month in the hospital, but Jesus left his life there, adding his name to the long list of cyclists killed on the Spanish roads in the last decade. There are over 400, according to DGT data. [[The Lord]] The number of bicycle accidents involved has doubled in the long-distance lanes in just seven years. They have increased from 1082 in 2009 to 2013 in 2015; they are also doubled in cities during the same period. The year 2015 saw 58 cyclists killed and 652 seriously injured; an increase of 33% in seven years. But the data from 2017 and the facts augur for an increasingly worse forecast. In 2017, Eduardo Monfort and Luis Alberto Contreras lost their lives on 7 May, after a driver who gave positive drugs and alcohol to the group of six cyclists with whom he went to Oliva. José Antonio Albi, seriously injured, died a few days later. A week later, just a week later, on the morning of May 13, another drunk driver was rocking six cyclists in Tarragona. The Government and our country are not responding sufficiently to the needs of cyclists in terms of road safety or legal security. This shows, at least, three reasons. First, the worrying increase in alcohol and drug consumption by drivers of motor vehicles. Secondly, impunity for the lack of criminal sanctions available to drivers of motor vehicles in certain cases of reckless abuse, and I assure them that this does not reduce accidents; on the contrary. Three, the scandalous impunity to which those who, in the event of an accident, refuse to help the victims and flee. This impunity is a consequence of the last reform of the Penal Code carried out by the lords of the People's Party - here on my right - who, through the unique derogation provision of Organic Law 1/2015, modified the entire book of the Criminal Code that regulated the faults by deleting it. All injuries caused by mild imprudence, including death, are thus simply removed from the penal sphere. The clearest example is the case we have all heard of, that of Oscar Bautista, a cyclist who died as a result of a traffic accident, in which, despite being hit by a truck that was run off when it was normally circulating on the deck, the investigating judge considered that it was a case of murder on account of recklessness of a mild nature, one more, again, a slight imprudence, and filed the case. That fact motivated Ana González, his wife, to launch, through change.org, a petition that he presented here at the Congress of Deputies - as you know - asking for what is of justice: a more just law. In Oscar's case, the criminal type of omission of the duty of relief was also not fulfilled because, because he died in the act, as the text itself explains and quotes literally, he was not in dire manifest danger or helplessness. We need to act now to change these facts; facts that are indeed seriously affecting cyclists, but also any victim of trafficking. To this end, we have since Citizens submitted on 30 May this non-law proposal that we are debating, in which we demand the Government to submit within three months to the Congress of Deputies an organic bill that, once and for all, amends the Penal Code to penalize all accidents resulting from death or serious injuries with medical treatment that occurs due to any kind of recklessness and creates a specific figure of the crime of omission of the duty of specific relief for traffic accidents, because what happened to Oscar is really unfair. There is no right to defend the escape of the driver who causes an accident and I really hope that all groups in this House will agree on this. [[Applauds]] I know that - I anticipate - when it comes time for the spokesman of the People's Party to tell me: But if we have already registered an organic bill for the amendment of the Penal Code! All right, I congratulate you on your haste to meet the citizens' demand, with what we are demanding from Citizens and we ask you on March 30. [[Applauds]] Congratulations on responding to the demands of Citizens. That's right, I'm also sorry to tell you that it's a bill that's been made for the race; a bill that doesn't look wide enough and to appease the social alarm. I'm not saying it, the cyclists and the jurists who accompany us today in the guest gallery say it. [[Applauds]] We look forward to the support of all groups - including the new PSOE - for this initiative to be adopted and to force the Government to discuss the law that Ana has been requesting and fighting for more than three years. Ladies and gentlemen, legal certainty is essential, but road safety is vital. We do not only comply with acting after the accident; we act before, we act with preventive measures, and that is something that can be done through DGT data. It is possible to identify those points on the track where the accidents of cyclists have occurred and also where accidents occur mainly due to drugs and alcohol. These DGT data can be crossed and you could make an Invive drugs, similar to Invive motorcycles, which can save many lives. I urge the Government once again from this rostrum - as we have done with the introduction of the non-legislative proposal - not to remain in mere ideas or in mere propositions but to act in truth to get invested in this prevention project and get started as soon as possible, and I will tell you why, because the best accident of all is the one that does not occur. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs Rivera. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca intervenes first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group - which will also fix its position at this time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. A parliamentary initiative is proposed which is necessary in view of the increase in victims among cyclists using Spanish roads and public roads. The statistics fix thirty-three cyclists who died hit last year, but in the current 2017 they already total twenty-six, which makes it necessary to take measures that are useful to try to stop this terrible escalation and reduce the accident that amounted to an increase of 185 % in the number of accidents in the last decade officially counted by the General Directorate of Traffic. There are certainly very different types of measures to be implemented, and in fact they have been announced in the Commission on Road Safety set up in this Congress of Deputies. The Citizens' Group has focused them on three points, with a particular impact on the reform of the Criminal Code, which makes sense because it is very disturbing the fact that cyclists are being hit by motor vehicles driven by people under the effects of alcohol and drugs, even recidivism; as the repetition of accidents in which the driver flees, runs away and does not help the victim is frightening. Since the Forum, we have tabled an amendment that seeks to promote compliance with traffic regulations in defence of the great vulnerability of the cyclist, as well as knowledge by bicycle users of the use of helmets, reflective clothing and lighting, in short, tools and elements of prevention and greater safety. On the other hand, we believe that it is of great value that more sections are enabled than what are called safe routes. In Spain we currently have fifty-six of these safe routes for cyclists and almost half a hundred new stretches that are pending signage, but they are few in line with the great and growing obsession with the sport and recreational use of bicycles throughout the national territory. Finally, together with amendments to the Law on traffic, motor vehicle traffic and road safety and adaptations to the general traffic regulations and the general regulation on driving in defence of bicycle users, we urgently believe that the first State strategic plan for bicycles has been called for for for a long time and that the Directorate-General for Traffic itself is developing in collaboration with bodies, institutions and sectors very involved in bicycles. There are several European countries - Holland, France and Germany, among others - which have already had such plans in place for years. We shall vote in favour, in any case, Mr President, of this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by paying a very meaningful tribute to Ana González and her tireless initiative to seek a just law. It was Ana who transferred to the parliamentary groups the reality of what was happening as a result of the latest reform of the Criminal Code and the impunity with which the slight recklessness remained, which ceased to be pursued by criminal means in order to have to resort to the civil way and that the families of the victims had to plead with the insurance companies, with many more means and possibilities, for which they feel helpless by this fact. She called for the amendment of the Penal Code, for the minor recklessness to be prosecuted also through criminal means and for the omission of the duty of relief - the Spanish case law states that when there has been a sudden death it is not appropriate and this crime cannot be attributed to the person who has fled leaving the victim on the road - could be prosecuted. In fact, we, as a Democratic Party, present a proposal for a law in these terms. We would have liked Citizens to also present a bill to be able to move a little faster. The Government had recently announced that it would introduce a draft organic law and, as had been said, it would only seem to modify the omission of the duty of relief and how to deal with it in the Criminal Code. We will try to amend this Government bill to cover the slight recklessness, because it is worth making regulations to give shelter to the victims. Finally, we have tabled a number of amendments to the text which we are also going to support, but which we felt were necessary at a competitive level, although the text of the non-legislative proposal suggests that it refers only to the roads of the State. We would like this non-law proposal to be more polished, to take account of the diversity of road ownership, because at least in Catalonia, in the exercise of our powers, we are already detecting black spots and doing prevention. I believe that in order for a more technical and better drafted proposal to remain, the amendments of our party should be taken into account so that our vote, which is of course going to be positive, would be more in line with the content. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u54	This afternoon I'm delighted at the times when I'm appointed by the gentlemen of the PP and the lords of Citizens. Really, I'm delighted. Maria Jesús Moro is not here, I don't see her, she's out, but I just want to tell her and everyone in the PP that I'm going to have a very high head, and the day I have something to regret I won't be in this House. I'm saying very, very convinced. Moreover, since we are not afraid, we present precisely this proposal for a law. If the People's Party isn't afraid of anything, why don't you vote for it if you're so sure? If they've done everything right, they sure as hell don't outlaw them. So, what are you complaining about?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u55	Mr. Baldoví, just a moment. I'll call you to the point. We are dealing with a non-law proposal and you are referring to the previous initiative. I would ask you to stick to the issue under discussion at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u56	Okay. I am an amateur cyclist and I have taken some scare on the road, so I am in favour of any measure that will promote the safety of the weakest on the road that, in short, we are the ones who ride bicycles. I believe that this proposal is necessary; it is necessary to open this debate with a clear objective. The clear objective must be to reduce the number of victims, to reduce the number of accidents above any punitive measures. Of this non-law proposal we especially like the first point, and I would tell Mr.Singing that the General Directorate of Traffic has already implemented many of the points that are reflected in it. They've already done his job. It goes in the line of avoiding and preventing. We also like the third point very much because we understand that what is involved in this non-law proposal and what is involved in life is trying to save lives. We therefore support the opening of this debate. As some reference has been made to Mr Cantó, I will say that we are going to vote in favour of this Citizens' proposal. We can agree on a lot of things with Citizens. The only thing we will not agree on is to keep this party in the presidency of the government. [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Luis Bail has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, little more to say about what has been said about the express reform that the People's Party, with an absolute majority, carried out in the Criminal Code in 2015, leaving a number of collectives, including cyclists, unprotected. It wasn't just any reform. In this reform, the People's Group had to introduce up to ninety self-amendments during its process. On the other hand, the motivation of Organic Law 1/2015 was defended on the basis of the pretext of lightening the administration of justice, when what is really a burden, according to the memory of the prosecutor's office in 2015, is the lack of means, as well as the existence of complex judicial processes such as those related, for example, to the plots of corruption. That's what really misses the work of the Justice Administration. The 2015 reform repealed the third book of the faults of the Criminal Code and this meant a criminal decryption that, although we could have understood as a demonstration of the progressive talent in accordance with the principle of minimal intervention, has in fact meant the helplessness of thousands of victims in the area of damages, as confirmed by the Union of Criminal Lawyers. On the other hand, it does not clarify the difference between one offence and another, between serious and less serious penalties, nor does it allow for a clear and specific procedure for offences. This reform consolidated, through the facts and in connivance with the insurers, the commercialization of a right as fundamental as that of effective judicial guardianship and on conditions of equality, something that later, in part, tried to correct Royal Decree 1148/2015, regulating the realization of expertise at the request of individuals. But we believe that the Government of the People's Party has unprotected vulnerable groups not only on the roads, but also judicially, and that it is now recognizing its error with the submission last Thursday of an organic bill to reform the Criminal Code two years later. Well, he did have his legs cut off this reform. Returning to the proposal presented today by Citizens, we believe it is important to stress that it is still unquestionable what has meant in practice the implementation of the reform of the Penal Code carried out by the People's Party, because it seemed that it was giving insurers fundamental aspects of the procedure and generated an unequal conflict between the persons concerned and the decisions of an insurance company, with the addition of the risk of the imposition of costs in the procedure; moreover, the wording of point 2 of the proposal is confusing and would suggest that the slight imprudence of injuries of article 147.1, but not the less serious imprudence with the same result, would be criminal. This and other considerations will be formulated in the articulation of the proposed organic law, given how well they have been able to coordinate with the People's Party. As an advance, I will read the comments made by lawyers' associations of cyclists, who say that the proposed reform, as almost always, is a patch made to the race to appease the social alarm and leaves without touching the mess that they have previously set up by criminalizing two types of recklessness. When that proposal comes here, we'll discuss it. On the other hand, we find victims and relatives who have not only been harmed by the accident, but have lost their jobs or suffered psychological and moral damage, needing constant support and we believe that the proposal presented at all has just protected these victims. That is why, because we are clear who we are defending, we have tabled amendments which we hope will be accepted to improve it, starting with a revision of Law 50/1980 on insurance contracts, with regard to the recovery of legal defence by the insured persons themselves; a revision of Law 35/2015 on the reform of the system for the assessment of damage caused to persons in traffic accidents with regard to the procedure to be faced by the victims in claiming compensation from the insurers; and a special, full and prompt procedure to be introduced in Law 1/2000 on civil prosecution, with the reversal of the initiative of the specific contradictory for the claim of damage in traffic accidents in which an executive title is formed and in which the imposition of costs is not contemplated. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we propose to amend three legal texts to ensure that victims also have access to effective judicial protection, which was the removal of the reform of the Criminal Code of the People's Party, because too often, on the part of insurance companies, there is resistance to the legal defence of victims and often the possible compensation that is received ends up serving only to cover procedural expenses. We defend the cycling collective, we defend all of us. We all have the right to go through the roads, and the more cyclists there are on the roads, the safer they are going to be, but let us do so with a global view and by returning them, the victims and the people who are affected by road violence, their effective right to judicial protection, being aware that, as we always say, rights are not sold, in this case the insurers, but they are defended. We are going to have to do that among all of us because there is no society if there is no road peace. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Luis Bail. For the Socialist Group, Mr Bellido Acevedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me also to address the cycling sector, those who articulate society's response through associations and collectives and who also deliver it and those who are selflessly defending rights for all. The truth is that 22 dead cyclists, almost 500 in a decade victims of accidents, hit on our roads, appeal to all of us here in the House to make decisions and to be united. That is why the Socialist Group is going to support this non-legislative proposal from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, to which we have tabled an amendment to add. The spokesman for Citizens said that the People's Group had rushed to introduce a bill as a result of the Citizens'initiative. Before the Citizens and before the People's Group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group presented on 10 May, the day that the Director General of Traffic appeared in the Committee on Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility, an initiative that intended to be an institutional declaration to show that all parliamentary groups were in solidarity with the victims in the accidents. It was not possible because, although all the parliamentary groups agreed, the People's Group considered that that was not the day and we converted that institutional declaration of MP Odón Elorza into a non-legislative proposal to be discussed in the Commission in the near future. I believe that all the parliamentary groups are aware of this issue, we are united, and we are going to try among all of us that there is unity in road safety because the groups of victims and in general society demand it from us. With regard to the proposal, we share the need, the diagnosis, and many of the proposals that we have read are amendments from other parliamentary groups. This text of Citizens has two large blocks; on the one hand, a proposal for reform of the Criminal Code, legislative proposals; and on the other hand, it has to do with more concrete measures by the Executive. With regard to the proposals relating to the Criminal Code, the first thing to ask is who benefited from the reform made by the People's Party in 2015. Of course, not victims' groups, as they have had to go to the civil court and pay experts and fees, becoming much more vulnerable to insurance companies and processors. The other matter that you bring here has to do with the social and criminal reproach that those people who have caused a disaster, flee the place and leave the victim helpless. It is a debate that the Socialist Group wants to hold and wants to reach agreements. The Group of the European People's Party is talking about achieving a state pact in this area, which we want. In this regard, it would have been a good thing if, through parliamentary courtesy, it had shown the groups that we are trying to achieve this pact of State the initiative that they have already registered in Congress. In addition to legislative measures, what we want is for them not to serve as an alibi for not doing other things. That is what the other block of the Citizens' proposal refers to, to which the Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled an addendum amendment, which has to do with executive policies. For example, improving roads - the cycling sector is specifically demanding improvement of the banks -; more investment in DGT, which by the way in the General Budgets of the State has dropped 14 million euros this year; training of users, which for years has ceased to be done by the government; awareness campaigns, now that the summer is coming, which is the time, together with the weekends, in which there are more casualties, more abuse of cyclists, more training in this field; aid on the road, a field in which much can be improved, as denounced by the Unified Association of the Civil Guard. In short, research into the causes, as Professor Luis Montoro, a specialist in this field, says, and research into new technologies that can prevent and prevent serious accidents. In the end, it is about demonstrating political will, and the political will here is limited to two issues: the State's Official Gazette and budgets. For the moment, as far as the legislature goes, little of each thing; little of the State Official Gazette and little of the budgets for road safety. The Socialist Group, as it has already announced on other occasions, is going to work to join the initiatives of other groups and also those of the People's Group, because in this matter we do not want to oppose, but we want to be coordinated, united, but if the whole initiative on road safety is to reform the Criminal Code, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to be much more demanding, because we believe that many more things can be done. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Bellido. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Gamazo Micó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u62	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish my first words to show, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, the utmost respect for all cyclists who are victims of road accidents and to convey to their families and friends our condolences and solidarity, in addition to their terrible pain. They must also be words of gratitude and recognition for Doña Ana González and for all those who have fought for a just law, which will prevent many families from having to go through the suffering and calvary that they have gone through in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, for the People's Group, the road safety of cyclists is a priority because it affects the lives and integrity of people, the lives and integrity of cyclists. That is why, from the government and from my parliamentary group, we have fought and are fighting to curb road violence through the implementation of continuous measures from the government - Mr Baldoví has acknowledged that this is being done - and the proposal for legal amendments. The People's Group is made up of many cycling enthusiasts and practitioners. We are, therefore, aware of the social reality because we pedal along the roads and know the reality of our territories, of our provinces. Therefore, aware of the magnitude of the sinisterity of cyclists and echoing a growing social demand, the People's Group acquired at the beginning of this session and not now, Mrs Rivera, for competing with you, the impulse of a proposal for a law that improves the protection that the Criminal Code provides to cyclists in the face of reckless, inappropriate and criminal conduct. Ladies and gentlemen, denying that our country with its government at the head is responding to the needs of all road users, including cyclists, is denying tomorrow's dawn. Spain enjoys a government that knows how to listen to citizens, knows and is concerned about the protection of citizens, a government that presides over President Rajoy, committed to improving road safety and sensitive to the problem of the accidentability of the cyclists. For this reason, the Government has implemented specific measures to improve safety and ensure that our roads become a safe and peaceful space for coexistence. They are aware of numerous measures, and I will point out to them some of those that the Government is taking, such as the marking of fifty-six safe cycling routes, to which forty-nine more will be added, with the aim of facilitating and protecting the transit of cyclists by conventional roads, including specific speed limits and timetables when used massively by cyclists; or the adoption of a special protection and safety plan for cyclists that includes, among other measures, a special monitoring plan, coordination with land-based measures, protection and prevention of the Civil Guard and Pegasus helicopters. In addition, the presence of the traffic grouping on secondary roads is increasing, especially in those used to the greatest extent by cyclists. And by way of a final example, the Government is working on the loss of the permits of those drivers who repeat alcohol and drug sanctions and for lack of psychophysical skills. We must promote zero tolerance and pursue those who do not comply. With regard to this GNP, we have tabled amendments which certainly improve the text. Ladies and gentlemen, having presented the Group of the European People's Party, as has been acknowledged by all those before me, a prudent, moderate, expert-backed proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code on recklessness in driving and sanctioning the abandonment of the place of accidents; in particular, it improves the definition of the concept of recklessness with the introduction of three scenarios that are to be considered serious - which we propose are to be considered serious - such as speeding, drug and alcohol consumption. It is a proposal that increases the punishment of the type of such conduct, and a proposal that clarifies a specific type of omission of the duty of relief in the area of road safety. With the introduction of the crime of abandoning the place of the accident, what is the point of urging the Government to introduce a bill when the People's Supporting Group has registered it and submitted it? The only thing we have been able to do in order to bring forward amendments that improve your proposal and that take into account our proposed amendment, in which we incorporate the nature of the offence of abandoning the place of the accident, is that it punishes the lack of solidarity required in these cases, punishing the intrinsic evil of the person who abandons another person, is injured or has died. Ladies and gentlemen, let us focus, please, and let us begin together a calm and calm debate on mild imprudence, distinguishing between human imprudence and minimal imprudence in which there are certain circumstances indicative of special negligence on the part of the driver. In our proposal for a law, which we will be discussing in the near future, we advocate calling it a serious recklessness when there is a serious breach of the driver's duty of caution, whether by driving too fast or by having his physical abilities undermined by the use of drugs and alcohol. I'll set an example for you to complete, President. Imagine a transporter, a father of a family, who is turning back to park his truck when he returns from work and does not see the pedestrian or cyclist who is crossing improperly, thus causing his hit. In this case, the imprudence of the trucker is humane and minimal and the penal solution, the penal sentence by this route that he proposes would generate a criminal record a situation that seems disproportionate to the trucker and to his family and his children. Let us reflect, ladies and gentlemen, let us reflect. I conclude by appealing to consensus, calling for all of us to work together to improve the protection of cyclists and to support our proposal to reform the Criminal Code. Let us pedal together so that no one can feel unprotected by our rule of law and among all of us reach the Zero Vision on our road, especially today in the cycling collective. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Gamazo. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are debating a non-law proposal on road safety for cyclists, urging the Government to draw up a plan to reduce the accidentality of cyclists and also to amend the Penal Code to re-criminalize drivers responsible for accidents with death or injury, regardless of whether the conduct is guilty or malicious, as well as to recreate a specific criminal type that considers the crime of failure to provide relief for traffic accidents, regardless of whether the victim died before he was able to receive the potential relief. Certainly, the encouragement that is seen today in the use of bicycles in their sports, recreational and daily transport aspects calls for greater attention to their safe use. The defence of the culture of bicycles, as is well known, is based on multiple arguments that go from being a thriving economic sector that generates 14 000 direct jobs and an annual growth of 10%, to contributing to the promotion of the decarbonisation of the environment, not to mention the direct beneficial impact on health, as well as being the best way to move around the cities or being the fastest, least polluting, cheapest and most sustainable. This mode of transport and recreation is increasingly frequent, logically leading to a greater accidentality for its users, which necessarily leads to a focus on this environment and its cyclists, in their safety, a circumstance which has struck us recently repeatedly and which has led to a strong call for attention which demands our interest, although it must also be said that the rate of deaths per bicycle and million inhabitants in Spain is substantially lower than in Europe, according to the European Commission data disseminated in Malta during the Road Safety Conference held in that State. Thus, in Europe there were 4.6 deaths per million, while in Spain there are 1.6; these figures do not in any way help complacency, but rather the struggle to reduce it even further. On the other hand, the Committee on Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility has already dealt with this problem and its approaches and measures, both in general sessions and in monographs attended by the Director-General of Traffic and the Minister of the Interior to explain measures to reduce road accidents and, logically, the risk to cyclists. There we were presented with the ongoing Strategic Plan of the Bike, with participation, among others, many of the Basque Government, the municipalities of Bilbao and Vitoria-Gasteiz and the Association of Brands and Bicycles of Spain, in which, as is well known, Basque companies maintain a position highlighted by the tradition in the sector and the hobby that in the Basque Country awakens its use. We were also presented with the lines of work that the Road Safety Committee is addressing regarding the problem of cyclist accidents to tackle the bleeding we are suffering. Well, the current non-law proposal addresses this problem in a way, we are going to think, well-intentioned, although perhaps somewhat hasty and, therefore, partial, unsystematic and forgetful of the work and initiatives currently under way in this House, as has already been pointed out by various speakers who have preceded me in the use of the word; and also forgets, why not, that the Government of the State does not have powers over the entire road network, not even over those of the main network, since those which run through Navarra and the Basque Country are outsiders; and neither does the Government of the State have jurisdiction over all the traffic that goes through them, without in any way preventing the best practices from coming from where they come from, being imported and implemented. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen; thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u66	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, president. There is no doubt that we are dealing with a proposal for good intentions, which has a background that obliges us to make changes and these changes must be assured. The good news that more and more citizens are using bicycles every day cannot be accompanied by the bad news, also constant, of constant accidents. By their very nature, cyclists are the most fragile road users and last year they left their lives on asphalt thirty-three citizens. The increase in the number of people on a bicycle, whether for purely sporting purposes or as a means of transport, has increased the percentage of accidents involving cyclists. Reducing disaster requires strict compliance with road safety standards. The Administration must ensure the good condition of the asphalt, the correct signage, but it must also take steps to remove those drivers who pose a real risk, a real danger. In addition to awareness-raising campaigns and awareness-raising announcements, it is necessary to tighten sanctions against those who, having consumed alcohol or drugs, are driving. We hope, as the proposal says, that the draft organic law submitted by the Government will go further and that through amendments we can complete what is initially a principle of solution, but not the solution. It is important to take into account the characteristics of neighbouring countries, such as Germany, the Netherlands or Denmark, which are pioneers in promoting mobility by bicycle, so that the use of bicycles can continue to be encouraged and the conditions of this type of movement improved. In them, road education and training are key to increasing cycling safety, and designing, developing and implementing specific training programmes is one of the first steps on the road to safe cycling. With regard to the infrastructure to increase the use of bicycles, it is essential to increase the protection and participation of cyclists. Much of the solutions will be to listen, and really listen, to this collective. Together with education and training, investment in infrastructure, both in the inter-urban and urban areas, aimed at the movement of bicycles, far from being interpreted as an isolated investment should be considered as a whole, also assessing the impact that it may have on other aspects such as environmental pollution. We must continue to work on the Sustainable Mobility Commission. I would say that this motion is the result of 'the spray makes love'; we are increasingly and more in agreement to implement those sustainable paths that do not understand ideology but good will. We will continue to work in this direction and to present concrete measures, such as those presented today, to the extent that the proposer is able to integrate some of the amendments that have been tabled. Thank you. Mobility and republic.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. At the time of acceptance or rejection of the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Rivera Andrés whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u68	We are awaiting appraisal, but surely we will accept them. We will negotiate them until Thursday, which will be the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u69	Thank you very much. We shall take this into account before the vote. - OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENT GROUP, ON THE IMPULSION OF THE HIGH-VELOCITY NETWORK IN THE FORAL COMMUNITY OF NAVARRA, THE SECOND STEP OF THE CANAL OF NAVARRA AND THE PENDING NETWORK NETWORK A-15, STRATEGIC AND ESSENTIAL INFRASTRUCTURES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE FORAL COMMUNITY. [[LORD ALLI AND LORD SALVADOR]] [[File number 162/000416]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u70	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, concerning the impulse of the high-speed network in the Foral Community of Navarra, the second phase of the Navarra Canal and the pending sections of the Navarra A-15 motorway, strategic infrastructures and essential for the development of the foral community. [[Mr Alli and Mr Salvador]] Mr Alli Martínez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, as well as for the establishment of a position.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Deputies, very good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you to address some issues that I am almost convinced may be either too specific for you, by referring only to the Foral Community of Navarre, or too far removed from the daily concerns that you have, ladies and gentlemen. However, believe me if I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that this non-legislative proposal has a greater burden of depth than it might seem a priori, because I intend to demonstrate that from ideological - and demagogic - prejudice a society, a community such as, in this case, the Foral Community of Navarre can be obstructed and paralyzed in its development, in its progress, in its quality of life, in its road safety, in its ecology, etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support three vital projects, which I will now mention are relevant and vital, as I say to you, for 640,000 ships and, therefore, for the rest of the Spanish people as a whole. While it is true that these three projects, these infrastructures, have never been paralysed, it is true that the deadlines are not being met because, ladies and gentlemen, we have passed a galloping economic crisis and because of budgetary constraints people had to be prioritized against infrastructures. But now, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in a historic moment of reinvigorating these infrastructures, we find ourselves in the Foral Community of Navarra with a wall of intransigence - I insist - ideological of those political forces that yearn to see Navarra at the time of the chariot pulled by the mules. I am talking, first of all, about a high-speed line that vertebrates Navarre and connects the Cantabrian with the Mediterranean; secondly, about the Navarra Canal which, although it is true, already supplies half of the Navarras in its first phase - but not the other half - we want the second phase of the Navarra Canal to end and, thirdly, that the Navarras that we want to come to Madrid by car or bus, we come by a motorway through Soria and we eliminate those sections of that old national road. These are the three strategic projects for which I ask for your support, so that they can be carried out in Navarre. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that behind the figures, behind those vital projects for the Foral community of Navarra there are thousands of shipwrecks who, at this time, because they do not carry on these projects, are seeing their economies and their quality of life damaged. Behind those thousands of damaged shipwrecks is a Foral Community of Navarra which is being hit in its development and progress. Some political forces - then we will say which ones - what they want is to keep out of the high-speed line map to the Foral Community of Navarre. Those political forces do not want water to be supplied to the Bank of Navarre when it is a problem and an absolutely avoidable risk and, thirdly, there are some political forces who want the roads that represent the past times. Luckily, at least at UPN we want to look at the future and not the past. I say this at a time when the debate in my community in Navarre - I do not know if I have ever said this - is a very interesting debate, ladies and gentlemen, because in view of these infrastructures the sensible part of the Foral Government of Navarre, which is Geroa-Bai, is in favour of these three major vital projects. I support the words in the parliamentary seat of the First Economic Vice-President, Mr Ayerdi, former President of the Basque Nationalist Party in the Navarra Foral Community. What's the matter, ladies and gentlemen? Very simple: the three partners of the current Foral Government of Navarre. Euskal Herria Bildu has never been in favour of Navarra's progress and, logically, I am not surprised that they vote against, they are consistent with his ideology. We can, which is the pure inconsistency and the pure inconsistency, in the Levant is demanding the Mediterranean corridor and in Navarre they want to paralyse it. And the United Left is neither expected nor expected, nor expected to say anything at all. [[o Left-Ezkerra as it is called in the Foral Community of Navarre]] This is a drama, and while in Navarre we are in this labyrinth sprawl, in the rest of the neighboring communities they go at cruising speed, in the right direction and agreeing with the state millionaire investments for their community. I have always told you, ladies and gentlemen, that I am very proud to be a Navarro and that we are a unique community, but that we are going to go into history because of our uniqueness but not in Spain anymore, but at the level of any Western economy because, where has a community been seen in which government partners are against billion-dollar state investments in that community? Another question, where has it been seen, ladies and gentlemen, that some political forces such as those I have just mentioned are against the supply programme for at least this century in the Foral Community of Navarre? Ladies and gentlemen, I tell you, in Navarre. This is indeed a real spurt and a real problem for us. To finish my time, I want to contrast. We are open to an agreement with the compromise that we are currently discussing, with the political forces looking to the future and not to the past. We are open, as long as the starting point of the party is: these three infrastructures are bid this year. But of those political forces that always look from prejudices and with irrational positions, I sincerely expect nothing. On the other hand, to those other political forces who understand that the socio-economic well-being of a society is based on having an extended middle class that, in turn, supports with its taxes the well-being and quality of a country and a society such as in this case can be Spain and, logically, within it the Foral Community of Navarre, to those political forces that understand it, I say to you that we are open to negotiating the changes that you want to make to our parliamentary initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, the Navarro People's Union looks to the future, wants the best for the shipwrecks and, therefore, for the Spaniards. Let us hope that there will be a broad consensus to tell the partners of the Navarra Foral Government that we are for the future, development and progress of the Navarra Foral Community. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. Mr Navarro, Fernández-Rodríguez, first of all, spoke in defence of the amendments put forward by his groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alli is bringing us an initiative which consists of three distinct parts. The first, on the impulse of high speed in Navarre; the second, on the Navarra Canal and the third, on the A-15 motorway. I'll start with the last two. As far as the canal is concerned, it originates from a 1998 agreement and has three purposes: water supply - when completed - will supply 60% of the population; the conversion, according to its objectives, to irrigation of almost 60 000 hectares and, finally, the generation of energy, and it is expected to produce approximately 6.5% of the total. Currently, the first phase of the channel is in service. This initiative deals with the second, which aims to reach the Ribera de Navarra and aims to turn 20 000 hectares into irrigation. It is an initiative that seems to us to be correct and appropriate. Regarding point three, referring to the outstanding sections of the Navarra motorway, it is an indispensable work for the vertebration of Spanish territory. Mr Alli has insisted on this throughout the initiative and we fully agree. What is simply proposed is to speed up the procedures so that the environmental impact statement can be urged as soon as possible and the work between Soria and Tudela can be completed and, once again, we fully agree on this. Let's go, then, to the first point, to the impulse of high speed in Navarre. We do not discuss the necessity of the actions, we do not discuss the priority of these works - I insist - for the vertebration of Spain, but we do want to take advantage to recall some things again. Throughout the country, we must promote integrated strategic planning. We can show that we have learned from past mistakes and that infrastructure is built for the right reasons and for the right price. A strategic and ambitious approach to the infrastructure that the country needs, based on evidence, will directly improve citizens' living standards and increase productivity, and it sounds quite good. This comes from the 2016 infrastructure plan of a country that is not Spain. The question is: Can we in Spain accept these objectives? Have we really learned from the past? Are we sure that the so-called white elephants, those very expensive infrastructures, very showy but of no social utility, whether radials, ports, airports, cities of culture or pharaonic undergrounds, will not be repeated? Are we prepared to transfer the evidence, as this infrastructure plan requires, to investment decisions, prioritizing those that have the highest socio-economic profitability and renouncing to use the Fomento budget for electoral purposes? Well, this is exactly what we are talking about in Citizens when we insist so much on a great national agreement on transport and infrastructure. I am not Catón, I am not going to climb here every day saying that Cartago must be destroyed, but I am going to climb every day to insist that the infrastructure plan must be implemented. This must be a great agreement that eliminates political bias and allows for a global vision of transport and infrastructure in Spain. This is not only in our programme, but also in point 21 of the investment agreement, together with the evaluation office, which has already been included in an additional provision of the budgets. That is why we, being - I insist - in line with the overall content of the initiative, have tabled an amendment for debate. Firstly, to include the reference to that agreement, because we believe that we must always have that national infrastructure agreement as our beacon. Secondly, in order to recall that the Cantabrian-Mediterranean axis, which the GNP claims, is essential to direct it towards the goods and, thirdly, to recommend that all agreements be made henceforth in the most transparent and participatory way possible. We are awaiting the response of the proposer and, in that regard, we will decide. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Navarro. Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u75	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, Navarra is one of the Spanish regions with the greatest potential for economic development, thanks to a balanced economy based on a solid industrial fabric and an agricultural and agri-food sector of increasing quality and competitiveness, but has a major deficit. After 25 years of UPN's government, Navarra's communications infrastructure is obsolete and inadequate to compete in Europe. That is why it is good that we recover the lost time, that we recover the initiative and political momentum, to develop these new infrastructures that are essential for Navarra's economic development. Navarra cannot be alienated from the development of the high-speed rail network. The cantabrian-mediterranean corridor, part of which is the Navarro corridor, is a vertebrate axis of the transversal high-speed rail network. This is why it is part of the Infrastructure and Transport Plan 2012/2014, as is also included the connection of this Cantabrian-Mediterranean corridor through La Rioja; a vital train not only for passenger traffic but also for freight traffic. They will connect all the seaports of the Cantabrian and the Mediterranean and the most important industrial logistic and automotive parks of the north and east of Spain. It is therefore essential for the development not only of Navarre but also of the regions that will be crossed or connected by this corridor, which will help to develop employment in two of the Navarra regions most affected by the crisis, such as the Ribera de Navarra and Sakana. We have wasted a lot of time and, therefore, we must recover the initiative in these infrastructures as soon as possible. We have met with the frontal opposition of the majority of the Government of Navarre, a coalition - I would like to recall - of ten political parties grouped around four coalitions, three of which are against these infrastructures: Bildu, Podemos and Izquierda-Esquerra are against the train and the canal with arguments that hardly resist the slightest analysis. They say they are against it because it favors the corruption of the brick; because it is a train that goes from nowhere, as if it were not part of a transversal corridor that connects the Cantabrian with the Mediterranean; that only benefits the construction companies. They defend a third thread on a single route of a route of the nineteenth century which, of course, has neither the capacity nor the competitiveness necessary on a high-performance train. I do not say this; the technicians say this, both from the Government of Spain and from the Government of Navarre. In short, Bildu, Podemos and Izquierda-Esquerra defend an economy based on isolationism and survival agriculture or as some prefer to call it: food sovereignty. We already know them, Bildu and his acolyte organizations have been against the development of these infrastructures in the past. They were against, sometimes with violent acts, the Itoiz swamp, the Navarra Canal or the Leizaran motorway. But what is surprising is that the coalition chaired by the Government of Navarre, Geroa Bay, is also against - we know now - these infrastructures; they voted against it by leaving alone the Vice-President of Economic Development, a prominent member of the Basque Nationalist Party in Navarre last week, voting against an initiative in almost the same terms as the one we are debating here today and we will vote next Thursday. So let us pick up this political moment and remind President Barkos that there is a social majority in Navarre that supports these infrastructures; that there is a parliamentary majority in the Parliament of Navarre that supports these three infrastructures; and that today we are going to demonstrate here too, in the Congress of Deputies, that there is a majority of the whole Spanish parliamentary arch that defends these three infrastructures. In the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have tabled a number of amendments to the proposed non-legislative proposal of the proposing party, in the sense that the high-speed Navarro corridor is part of the mixed corridor of passengers and cantabrian-Mediterranean goods. We propose that the date of entry into operation be 2023 and that the instruments of self-government be used in the Foral Community of Navarra, so that the Government of Navarra can anticipate the cost of these infrastructures and go towards compensation for such early financing through the economic agreement, as other outlying autonomous communities are already doing. In the case of the A-15 motorway we propose to develop not only the Sorian sections of this motorway but also the section that goes from Tudela to the provincial boundary with Zaragoza, thanks to one of the four budgetary amendments of the Socialist Group which were approved in these budgets and which include the bidding of this construction project. So it's time to move. The Government of Navarre must respond as soon as possible - this very week, if possible - to the offer made to it by the Government of Spain, and the Government of Spain must promote all actions in these three infrastructures and provide them budgetaryly - as it has not done in 2017 - in the new budgets of 2018. Of course, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will always be in favour of Navarra's development and we will support UPN's non-legislative proposal. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Fernández. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u77	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Before I begin, I have to tell my dear friend Íñigo Alli that perhaps the only thing I agree with regarding the non-law proposition is his first sentence, the one that says: It has more depth burden than it seems. Indeed, I believe that this GNP has no constructive but rather disruptive intentions. I believe that it does not add up, but seeks to divide and confront the possibilities for a solution that come from both the internal arrangement of the Navarra Government itself and, above all, from the institutions and that it is being sabotaged in an effective way by its political grouping. It happens, for its part, that the efforts made by the Government of Navarre continue in spite of everything and intend to materialize these three infrastructures that are cited in the non-law proposal and that are indeed very important for the navarras and the navarros, as they should be and in which we also participate as the Basque Nationalist Party, as the Basque Group and as members of the Geroa Bai Coalition, that is, as part of the Government of Navarre, because we are interested in the navarras and the navarros. Let's get on with it. Following the order of the non-legislative proposal itself, on the point concerning the need for a high-speed network in Navarre that intends to connect the Mediterranean corridor with the Atlantic axis and on which, contrary to what has been stated so far, there is already a pronouncement by the Parliament of Navarre, a few days ago, on 5 June, the Bureau of the Parliament of Navarre approved an institutional declaration, the text of which reads: The Parliament of Navarre shows its commitment to an Atlantic-Mediterranean rail corridor that includes our community, thus connecting Navarre with Europe. It is also committed to a railway solution compatible with international standards of capacity appropriate to the needs of the transport of goods and persons. And the Parliament of Navarre considers it necessary for the Governments of Navarre and Spain to agree on a new agreement so that the above-mentioned railway solution incorporates a non-burdensome financing system for the interests of the citizens of Navarre. The statement was supported by Geroa Bai, PSOE, PP and UPN. Can you explain to us then, gentlemen of UPN, why what was necessary and desirable twenty-three days ago is no longer necessary today to present a non-legislative proposal that renders the content of that agreement of the declaration of the Parliament of Navarre null and void? Can you tell us why what was the result of the agreement and the will of the body representing the majority of shipwrecks today no longer matters? Similarly, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, can you tell us why you are following up on the obstruction attitudes that UPN is carrying out, and the right wing of Navarre in general, in order to pretend to be an obstacle to other policies? It's a thing that attracts attention. Wouldn't this be the time to start putting into practice at once that new rhetoric that you are beginning to talk about plurinationality, rather than being aligned with the most extreme right? The fact is that the UPN proposal deviates decisively from what the Parliament of Navarre has decided, because unlike what has been agreed in Parliament, what it does is, first of all, to bid a part of the high-performance train, but it forgets about the rest of the project. There needs to be a comprehensive approach because to be a runner there needs to be a tie between Navarre and Europe at both ends. However, the non-legislative proposal forgets this and aims in isolation to make an award of a single tranche without taking into account, without taking into account the existence of a comprehensive project. By removing the chaff of a small piece executed in isolation when it was precisely governing UPN, in respect of which at least they call for the return of the 45 million that Navarra has advanced and that they have not yet been compensated, the truth is that it is contradictory to ask for the execution of a single piece when there is no general definition of what Navarra needs and what its Parliament has agreed on. We think, and we say it with all respect but with all force, that with this attitude they only intend to make a political clamp - I am running out of time - that is not adequate. Ladies and gentlemen of UPN, what Navarra needs is a sustainable infrastructure that connects it to Europe, the Basque Y, the Mediterranean Corridor and France, but that is not their attitude. Let me also make a comment on the second question, the Navarra Canal. It has already been explained that it is a hydraulic infrastructure of which a first part has been implemented, but the second part is missing. To put it some way, the main discrepancy in this second is about what the scope of the work is to be done. The size of the work is given by the level of hectares, the amount, the area of hectares that must be cared for in their case by this channel, taking into account, as explained earlier by the representative of Citizens, that the work has as its object the supply of water to the population, the irrigation for the field and the production of electricity. Well, this discrepancy is given by a bias on the part of UPN in pointing out the figure of 21 000 hectares as a necessary amount to be met when in reality it is not yet known what quantity of hectares can be met and, therefore, the size of the work to be carried out. That is why the regents are being consulted and they are expected to be the ones to answer that question. However, it has gone ahead, it has been intended to make this clamp somehow force the government to act, certainly without taking into account that the greater the cost it has, also for the regents, who are in part the ones who have to maintain it, and that is precisely why this is an approach that seems to us to be wrong; erroneous and contradictory in addition to the ministry itself that on 15 June 2015 already took a resolution in which it was pointed out that the maximum capacity was about 15,000 hectares. That is why, gentlemen of UPN, this approach is not correct. We believe, as I told you, that it is disruptive, not add up. That is why we cannot support GNP, even though we agree in its objectives on many issues - in its objectives, but not in its concreteness - because you yourself are pointing out that this is a partial work both in one case and in another and do not specify what the formula of understanding is. That is why, Mr Alli, gentlemen of UPN, we are sorry to be unable to support you and I have to tell you that we are going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u79	Pick up where we are. Good afternoon. Here, the senseless part of Navarre, which has to answer in five minutes exactly a series of very complex questions, with an impressive amount of nuances, which makes us think that what you are looking for is only a headline that is also empty of content because, if you did not seek that headline, you would have agreed with your PP partners on budgetary commitments that shine absolutely for your absence. You usually pose a false dichotomy between progress and caverns, this kind of approach that puts people in an almost nursery situation. Because history is not in favor of something. We are in favour of a modern train, a social train, a train with capacities, a freight train, as we are in favour of a supply that is adequate, rigorous and proportional to the shoreline, as we are in favour of maintaining adequate road transport networks, etc. The problem here is how, and the problem of how it is very important, because in that false dichotomy that you pose the how it is: either this or caves, and between this and caves there is a wide variety of grays. In other words, railway competition is the responsibility of the State. If the State proposes a particular line, the State does so. If Navarra, in use of its self-government and with the agreement it has, wants to participate and wants to finance that, as you proposed in the 2010 agreement, then Navarra will have the right in one way or another to raise the conditions for implementing that line. Right? Since we are in the 21st century and in environmental matters many years ago since the Aarhus Convention, which involves public participation, this participation should be given because there is a substantial change in the conditions. Nothing has been studied at all, we have asked the government questions, the profitability study is from the year 2000 and the government's priorities, as the PP wants to do, are simply to take time away for travellers. You don't say a word of merchandise. The PP Government itself has often raised doubts about the agreed solution, the third thread or the non-third thread. What needs do we have? What do we want? Will we have the right to raise them? Will we have the right to negotiate them? Will we have the right to put forward an appropriate agreement for the type of proportional train? You are only proposing a stretch because, as one of you has already said, we do not want promises, we want cement, and cement is a way of working, it is a productive model, as is the Navarra Canal, whose consequences have been very clear. You paralyzed the second phase of the Navarra Canal, raised an enlargement. Hence the PNV told them that the hectares did not come out, because with the same concession you have made a branch. You have to listen to the Chamber of Counts. Of the forty-seven fantastic crops only three are subject to market fluctuation. We have made laissez-faire, we have generated impoverishment in the population, we have not listened to the regents, and now you are praising the identity approach that we do not want to bring water to the shore. Well, it's completely false, but the way it matters, the financing matters, the proportionality matters. [[Applauds]] It is simply so, and we are not going to go through your economic model by the fact that you are going to accuse us of something that is false, that is to be against progress. Do you know what your progress is? The one they agreed with the PSN, that one they agreed to. Do you remember? Plan Navarra 2012, city of transport, losses of 48 million; interest of the debt to 5%; tolls in the shade, 43 million for the Highway of the Way; 16,5 for that of the Pyrenees; the Canal of Navarra, all the annual fee that we have to pay; the losses in the hydroelectric investment; the losses in the regants; the subsidies that we have had to make to put in place the highs and the irrigations of the canal; all those people who have defended the traditional irrigation; the debt of the State for the TAV, 45 million. Now they're claiming it. You haven't made a deal with your partners on this 45 million? Don't they trust you? Didn't they say that their essential seats were to pay for something that was already agreed? Parament was vienze. You understand me. [[Applauds]] The expenses of Navarra Arena, 56 million in works; another 6.9 million; claims for 5 million; losses in Iberdrola, 19.6 million; loss of Caja Navarra, calculated at 1003 million; Guendulain, planned compensations of 140; Osasuna, ten years without paying to the Treasury, 53 million losses; Sendaviva, 33; circuit of Los Arcos - you know it very well -, 60 million investment, with a private to the public play and an annual maintenance; Etxauri Forestal - wonderful, those noble woods -, 3.7 million; Museum of Sanfermines, 3 million euros. What have we stopped paying? With the tax reform we have stopped collecting 72 million, 33 million for road maintenance, 1.5 for the Palace of Navarra that sinks, the extra of the officials, almost 30 million...Yes, yes, because it matters, what we invest in one thing we stop investing in another. And this government of change has had to invest in this, in the symphonic orchestra's debt, EUR 1.5 million, in teachers' holidays, EUR 10 million and in pending support to families and in computer licenses, not to mention some other lumps that we could pose long and stretched. In short, a rather complex subject to be released in five minutes, but I have thirty-five seconds left. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos. He was short, not left! Mr Posada Moreno has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. As Mr Alli put it, it is clear from this non-legislative proposal that there was more content than it might appear when reading it for the first time. I have to say that the People's Parliamentary Group supports Mr Alli's position. He intends, and I believe that correctly, that Navarra should grow, that Navarra should be modernised and modernised precisely by integrating itself into Spain. We share that view, and that is why we are going to support this non-legislative proposal. Now, I'd like to give you all a couple of thoughts. The first reflection is that this non-law proposal, which is from Navarra but could be from another autonomous community, and I'm sure there will be non-law proposals from this type of other autonomous communities, we can discuss it here because times have changed. This is important. We can allocate resources to do questionable works, and there are those who agree and those who disagree, but we have resources to do so. A second reflection that we should not lose sight of is that this can be done because there are budgets of the State, but budgets of the State that have allowed to make budgets to the autonomous communities, in this case Navarra, which also participates in works of the non-law proposal, and to the municipalities. It is very important, and I would like to think about it all, that there are budgets for 2017, but also for 2018 - we have to discuss next week the spending ceiling - and for 2019. Because here in Congress it is good that we have discussions, and important political discussions, in which decisions will be made that will please one another and not the other, but while decisions are made here, bills are made and proposals for legislation, legislative work are passed, there are some administrations that work every day because from here to the state we approved the budgets and the legislative chambers in the autonomous communities approved those of the autonomous communities and the plenary of the municipalities approved those of the municipalities. The Administration operates and operates continuously with our policy direction, but it is working continuously. Now we are going to move from this very general issue to another more particular one. Of the three points raised by the non-law proposal it has been seen to arouse more interest and are also of much more financial volume the first, the high-speed train, and the second, which is the Navarra Canal, but I want to insist on the third: the Navarra motorway. This highway of Navarra goes Medinaceli-Soria, Soria-Navarra and Tudela beyond, has been a pretension of the Navarra society and of the Sorian society for decades. What is now being proposed is the easiest thing to do because it is to develop and speed up projects. The important thing about the non-law proposal - personal support - is that it demonstrates that political will, a political will to which the Navarra and Sorian societies have been entitled for decades - in Fitero twenty years ago the three autonomous communities signed an agreement to develop the Medinaceli-Tudela motorway, now a motorway - asking it, like social actors, economic agents and political parties. It's time to do it. It is an important highway for Soria - I defend it because I am a deputy for Soria - but strategic for Navarra, in order to be able to communicate with Madrid and the rest of Spain. That is why I would like to say that we will support the final proposal that UPN makes with the amendments that have been accepted. We will support this non-legislative proposal. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Posada. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Alli Martínez whether he accepts any of the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u83	Mr President, we are doing a compromise and we will present it before the vote on Thursday.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u84	All right. I ask you to present it as soon as you have it in order to take it into account in the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u85	We now discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group into the political responsibilities that the Minister of Finance and Public Service intends to assume as a result of the ruling of the Constitutional Court declaring his fiscal amnesty unconstitutional and void. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr López Milla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court's ruling of 8 June is not the first to declare itself contrary to the Constitution and therefore null and void a decision of the Government of Spain, but the circumstances in this case are really exceptional. First, because of the clarity and harshness with which the Constitutional Court pronounces itself, when, on the legal basis of its decision, it states that with the tax amnesty the State has abdicated its obligation to fulfil the duty of everyone to contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure, and the Government for its part has legitimized as a valid option the conduct of those who, in a disproportionate way, failed to fulfil their duty to tax in accordance with their economic capacity, finally placing them in a more favourable position than those who, on a voluntary and timely basis, carried out them out. He said that the Government had broken the goal of justice to which the tax system must in any case be directed and that it had affected the very essence of the duty to contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure set out in the Constitution by altering the way in which the tax burden which the generality of taxpayers must lift in terms prohibited by the Constitution had been allocated. It is therefore not true, as the now absent minister claims, that the Constitutional Court has not ruled on the merits of the matter. It is true that, once the invalidity of the tax amnesty has been determined because the appropriate legal instrument has not been used, it is not necessary, as the court itself states in its judgment, to come to know of the injury of the principles of economic capacity, equality and progressiveness also alleged by the appellants, those of the Socialist Group, but it is also true that in the legal grounds of its decision the Constitutional Court rebuts each and every one of the arguments of the State Advocate and crushes the legal grounds of the decision adopted by the Government in the terms I have just quoted. In the face of this, the minister insists that nullity derives exclusively from the legal instrument used. We must therefore understand that Mr Montoro, in view of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, would have no objection to reinvigorating this tax amnesty. It would only change its legal form and that alone, in our view, is a sufficient reason for its reprobation, because if the only lesson that the Minister of Finance has been able to draw from the Constitutional Court's ruling is that he should have used another legal instrument, it means that he has not accepted what is laid down in the legal grounds of the judgment, where, as I say, all the arguments that the Minister himself has used for years to defend his decision are pulverised. Abdication of the obligation to fulfil the duty of everyone to contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure; legitimization of the conduct of the fraudsters; bankruptcy of the objective of justice; alteration of the mode of sharing the tax burden in terms prohibited by the Constitution. And all this for what? All this in order to help some 31 000 taxpayers to grow more than EUR 40 billion by paying on average only 3%. You know what happens to stockings, what happens is that some defrauders will have paid virtually nothing. They have not even been required 10% initially established, because the minister was afraid to make a mockery if with that 10% they did not come out hidden assets. And through this door, through the door opened by the current minister, some defrauders who had simply hidden billions of euros from the tax system to avoid paying taxes, and also a few who were prosecuted for corruption, including some former leaders of the People's Party, and uniquely one person, Mr. Bárcenas, the vault key on which rested the entire process of illegal financing of the People's Party, the party that paid out, financed campaigns and supported reforms with opaque money. And let me remind you of an obvious fact: it is the same party to which the minister who has carried out the tax amnesty and who has ended up becoming the necessary collaborator for the businesses of the defrauders and alleged corrupts to come out round, so that these people could come out, without just tax costs, all the money that provided them with the activities that precisely brought them before the courts. The Minister of Finance promoted this amnesty while thousands of unemployed people were left without a benefit, while millions of sick people had to pay more for their medicines, while scholarship cuts left families more humble without opportunities for their children, while many dependent people lost the few support they had, as VAT rose, while we increased many rates that we paid all citizens regardless of our income level and while the Minister of Finance himself tried to freeze taxes on returning migrant pensioners. [[Applauds]] So as the government increased the hardship and suffering for millions of Spaniards and Spaniards, as it erected a wall that left millions of fellow citizens out of recovery, it was opening a door without return for thousands of defrauders and some scoundrels to save billions of euros. And we fear that in doing so he was well aware that even if the tax amnesty was declared unconstitutional, his profits would remain forever, the regularizations would not be annulled and the beneficiaries of the tax amnesty would never lose the tax advantages they were granted. In our view, the Minister of Finance is responsible for all of this, first of all, for having promoted it, for having defended it, for presenting it now, when we already know the judgment, as if it were inevitable, for not having apologized, for not having shown even the purpose of amendment - it seems that he would make it again by changing only the legal instrument - and, above all, for refusing to assume political responsibilities, giving further arguments to those who question the credibility of our institutions and disregard the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we understand that this House, where national sovereignty resides, where the President of the Government receives or loses his confidence, must reproach the Minister of Finance, and it will remain in the hands of the President of the Government the final decision, and depending on what he does, it will also be political responsibility, responsibility for what the President does or does not do with his reproved Minister of Finance and Public Service. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. López Milla. As no amendments were tabled, we moved on to position-setting. Firstly, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u88	Pick it up on. Euskal Herria-Bildu joins Minister Montoro's reprobation and extends it to the entire government, which is ultimately responsible for a fiscal amnesty in line with the PP's fiscal economic policy. It is a long time since we have been denouncing the fiscal policy of a government that has no will to make everyone contribute to the maintenance of public services as it should. This would involve in-depth reform which, in addition to a more equitable and proportional system, would lead to an increase in actual collection which would help to establish another order of priorities in expenditure. But given the excuses used by Montoro himself to justify his action, even after the Constitutional ruling, which - let us say it all - corrects the action of the Government but legitimizes the defrauders, it is clear that the ruling will not have practical or political effects. There is no reason to justify a fiscal amnesty that only makes the defrauder a priority, deepens inequalities and makes it clearer - if possible - that the PP governs for the corrupt and the oligarchy, for whose interests it rescues the banking system to the detriment of public policies, puts the payment of the debt ahead of everything and facilitates large companies and fortunes to make the abandonment of their tax obligations. But let no one be duped, this amnesty has been appealed and sentenced, but it is as unacceptable as the previous ones, as well as cutting measures that have accompanied them over time or the change of article 135 of the Constitution. It is therefore important to reproach Montoro, but raising the voice requires consistent and sustained positions over time to change fiscal and economic policy, to decisively combat tax fraud and to achieve the dual objective of increasing collection and redistributing wealth. The budgets already approved do not help this, the Tax Agency has fewer and fewer resources. At least 11.5 % of those who received amnesty continue to be defrauded and only 13 % of the then defrauders have been subsequently investigated. Therefore, we will reproach Montoro and little more; in a few days the spending ceiling will be approved and we will start again, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What to expect from a transfugue who changes party and ideology to keep his chair!, right, Mr. Singing? [[Applauds]] Today we come to warn Mr Montoro and the People's Party to take care to use the name of this country to justify that the tax amnesty was necessary to overcome the economic crisis, to take care to use the names of those who work day by day paying their taxes to justify the tax amnesty, to take care also to use the names of the thousands and thousands of families who rise to earn a living every day. Because when you justify the tax amnesty arguing that it was necessary to save this country what you are doing are two things, insulting the honest people of this country and soiling the name of this country. Be careful to play on behalf of our people. Today surely the Minister of Finance will be reprobated and surely many of us too will have many problems in explaining what impact or political significance this act will have, and there is the drama. We are aware that a scenario of dialogue has been opened to articulate a hope, to articulate a possibility of change. We know, therefore, that we enter into a scenario of many expectations where the problems of our people, of the Valencian people, must also be borne in mind. Arrived here we do want to say one thing, who is committed to acting as a tactical key will be responsible for the passing of this hope. Therefore, we understand that posing scenarios that go by mixing water and oil, as in 2016, is pure tacticalism. I'm done. Let us start at the beginning and put this Parliament to work to rescue people, let us put this Parliament, as that old Andalusian poet recited and sang a countryman of mine, 'to gallop, to gallop', because there is no one in front. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u92	Thank you very much. Briefly, just to announce that we are going to vote in favour of your proposal and we are going to add some reason and reason as well. The sentence is clear on its basis, beyond their considerations: the mechanism that was used was not the one that had to be used; a royal decree-law could be used if it were then treated as a law. Our group, at that time, requested it, advised it and we voted in favour. Mr Montoro considered it inappropriate at that time, but as he was warned at that time, the Constitutional Court reminds him that this is the second time he has encountered the same stone. There was another ruling of the same Constitutional Court - at that time the minister was Mr. Rat, but already Mr. Montoro was Secretary of State for Economic Affairs - which also annulled a royal decree-law for the same defect of form. Therefore, we are going to vote in favour. In addition - I have also recalled - a report by the Directorate-General for Taxation enabled a set of taxpayers - rather than non-taxpayers - who ended up without taxing a euro; not a two, not a three, not a five, not a ten, not a euro. We understand that that was not to respect what had been validated at the time. Of the breaches by Minister Montoro of what is agreed in these Chambers we also have a reminder in the Budget Stability Act, in which we negotiated an amendment to the first transitional provision regarding the distribution of the deficit, which was never fulfilled after. We shall therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u94	Thank you, President. Sweep on, good afternoon. Today we are debating here about the reprobation of Mr Montoro, Minister of Finance and Public Service, for his performance in 2012, in which he approved the special tax declaration, an euphemism, a softer name to obviate the word fiscal amnesty. Our group, I have to say, was critical of this measure; it stood against that decree and, in fact, within our regulatory capacity in the tax field we do not apply it in Euskadi. The tax amnesty has been a deep mismatch of the government in the 10th Legislature, was an injustice and a comparative aggravation for those who meet their tax obligations and allowed many defrauders to get up to date in the Treasury by paying an irritant toll, around 3% on average, when they had to pay, most likely for their income levels, above 50%. In addition, it questioned the real will of the Administration to combat fraud, or at least a prevalence of collectivity at an economic moment in the face of a firm position in the ethics against fraud. This has also been stated in the Constitutional Court's judgment, which, by the way, gives the Government one of lime and one of sand, because while it nullifies the special tax declaration, the fact is that it endorses the declarations made to regularize the money evaded even for legal certainty. The justification given does not correspond to what is expected of an Administration which is requested, in cases of tax fraud, effectiveness and efficiency in the pursuit and punishment of such conduct. If this measure was really taken because of the financial crisis situation or because of the need for greater income in extraordinary circumstances to close the deficit, on a purely economicist basis, perhaps if the minister instead of asserting his absolute majority had sought agreement with the rest of the parliamentary groups, more reasonable formulas would have been explored than the measure taken to make those who have assets abroad understand the risk of keeping that assets hidden or undeclared. In short, disincentives against tax evasion and avoidance. Probably today, if it had been done this way, this reprobation would not be being debated. It must also be recognized that this tax amnesty is not the first to be given in Spain. It seems, therefore, that the two parties that have ruled in the State have at different times seemed an appropriate tool. Thus we have that of 1984, where the hidden money was regularized through the acquisition of Treasury payers and that of 1991, when one could acquire public debt at a lower interest than that of the market. The same is true in Europe, which, over the years, has also come to the tax amnesty figure, for example, Portugal, France and Ireland. With this we do not intend, in any way, to justify - in fact it does not seem to us justified - the action of the Government, much less, but I think it is fair to put it on this table as well. Having said that, reprobation is a tool that seems to be fashionable lately and by which a reprimand is sought, in addition to the political and social rejection of a certain conduct, but which, in the end, does not oblige anything, does not carry with it the obligation of the minister to leave his post; it is limited to being a political reprimand and, therefore, I would also like to leave some reflection in the air. Are we prepared to reprimand those conducts that have been committed unjustly, by whoever performs them? Or are there going to be different measuring rods if the one that does it is from the party itself? What is needed, beyond the media noise, is the widespread commitment of all parties in the fight against tax fraud, avoiding such measures and, if necessary, using those tools that are suitable for those conducts that are reprehensible to have their consequences. To do politics is to go to the specific topics in the legislative chamber, to make proposals, to work in the committees, to make amendments, transactions and, more importantly, to defend the rights, duties and interests of citizens, and I do not think that any of this is achieved with a reprobation. It is rather a political reproach that has no greater consequence. In addition, it appears that the government's stalemate with this ruling has led it to announce that measures such as the one adopted in 2012 or the intention to strengthen personnel in the fight against fraud and the search for inconsistencies between income from tax amnesty and subsequent declarations of property abroad will not be established. In any case, let us hope that it will be measures that strengthen the impartiality of tax proceedings without altered proceedings, which was allowed by the tax amnesty. In short, our group is going to abstain in the reprobation of Mr Montoro for consistency with what has been achieved and said so far with regard to the tax amnesty and, especially, because we were critical of this measure adopted, we actually voted against it; because we have not applied this amnesty in outside territory because of our regulatory capacity in the tax field; because, moreover, in tax matters this group usually abstains; because in 2013, with an absolute majority of the PP, we also abstained from the reprobation of Mr Montoso, and because the use of reprobations cannot become a weekly custom, going to the forefront of parliamentary activity. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u96	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, so much goes the cantaro to the source that in the end it breaks. This is what happens to Minister Montoro, even if he's not here today. It is running out of time and the list of failed ministers will now be enlarged. Now, that to you, to the People's Party, neither cold nor heat. Minister Montoro was the architect of a fiscal amnesty in 2012, which he euphemistically baptized as fiscal regularization, which was carried out by a royal decree - which the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional - called tax and administrative measures aimed at reducing the public deficit. On this subject, we have asked the Minister on numerous occasions to explain in various ways and ways, and he has always given them incomplete and wrong. Explanations that were more than justified in the attention to the tax amnesty, the one designed by the Government of the People's Party, by the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, because that amnesty has done nothing but launder in large part the money that came from illegal and illegal conduct, as time has been responsible for proving. Last Thursday the minister appeared on the Finance and Public Service Commission for the purpose of giving explanations on the possible responsibilities of the government - in this case also of the minister - in relation to the ruling of the Constitutional Court, the one that has declared the royal decree unconstitutional. What did the minister do? What he does all the time, he gets his chest out and says that nothing happens here and that he goes ahead. It is only necessary to make a thorough reading of the judgment, especially the sixth legal basis of the judgment, which tells them that the measure has affected the essence of the duty to contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure as set out in Article 31.1 of the Spanish Constitution, substantially altering the way in which the tax burden should be shared by the generality of taxpayers in our tax system, according to the criteria of economic capacity, equality and progressiveness. After this, what legitimacy does Minister Montoro have to continue as the ultimate leader of fiscal policy and the Tax Agency? While amnestying a few, what happened in the year 2012 in Spain? That the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, the Government of the People's Party had initiated wild cuts to the vast majority of the population; cuts in health, education and dependence drowned the autonomous communities and the municipalities, limiting the rights and freedoms of citizens but, on the contrary, amnestying all those who had their fortunes in tax havens. It is clear that this amnesty did not benefit the working classes or the popular classes, but the great fortunes; those great fortunes that, as I said earlier, largely stemmed from illegal or unlawful conduct. Here the list is long and endless and there are prominent members of the People's Party - former Minister Rato and Bárcenas, among others - as well as the Pujol family, which also benefited and appears on this list alongside others. You, the People's Party government, took steps to benefit the great defrauding fortunes, who were allowed to launder their black money for the modest price of 10% and without any charge, interest in delay, penalty or tax liability. That 10% was never paid because the big fortunes that took hold of the tax amnesty ended up paying a modest and cash 3%, that is, you did it cheaper than those dedicated to laundering money. You have rewarded the defrauders, you have rewarded those who have robbed the citizenry, and the stolen money is the one we have paid and we continue to pay in the form of cuts. The defrauders are criminals who have been pardoned, amnestyed, keeping them anonymous. A few weeks ago, we told the minister that even if there is no criminal responsibility, it does not mean that there should be no political responsibility. From Esquerra Republicana we believe that there must be it and in any country with deep democratic convictions and long democratic tradition, ethics and good governance prove to be resigning. This is not what happens in Spain and in the Republican Left we doubt that this really happens. Therefore, in Esquerra Republicana, we, ourselves, work tirelessly for Minister Montoro to resign from the polls in Catalonia on October 1. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u98	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I recognize that Mr Montoro has a hard, sometimes ungrateful, job; but it is not only we who repudiate his special tax declaration, that is, his amnesty; it is the supreme interpreting organ of our Cargo Magna, the Constitutional Court, which in its judgment of 8 June declared that they abused legislation by decree-law and, most shamefully, that they used this wicked mechanism by rewarding the defrauder and punishing the follower, implying the abdication of the State and legitimizing the insolidary conduct, once again discrediting the institutions, including this House, by giving oxygen to populism and independence. And it's not all right, ladies and gentlemen. First, last week, the minister's appearance revolved around the famous phrase that the end justifies the media, and he said textually: We didn't like it, but we had to do it. It was a matter of urgency and State responsibility in a situation of hypercrisis. It was not the first time that it was done in Spain and it has also been done in other European countries. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, do these reasons legitimize a tax amnesty? Isn't this a fallacy? Moreover, Mrs Madrazo was vehemently accusing us of no longer raising doubts about the Government's action in the fight against fraud, because that, I say, undermines the fiscal conscience of taxpayers who are religiously fulfilling their obligations. [[Applauds]] Mrs Madrazo, do you really think that amnesty does not undermine citizens' fiscal conscience? Do you really think so? Frankly, this bipartisanism has been irresponsible and insolidary. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group, Mr López Milla, in 1984 they issued opaque Treasury payments - you know it - and more than EUR 18 billion took up their amnesty. In 1991 they reissued more than EUR 10 billion; and I do not want to talk about the famous Falciani list, which we all know, in 2010, another clear case of swindling the defrauders to evade justice. Moreover, we have had to hear these days that the amnesty of the Socialist Party is not unconstitutional. If, it is true, it is not unconstitutional, but do not be mistaken, more than anything because they were not appealed, but it is the same perverse mechanism of rewarding the defrauder and punishing the follower; the same, the same. [[Applauds]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, it's good enough to distribute carrots, it's good enough to bait them with bait attractive to the fraudsters. There will be no further tax amnesty in Spain because, among other things, it has been made very clear by the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, Mr Montoro is today repudiated by four objective facts. One, in March 2012, with this wicked mechanism, with the support, by the way, of the former Convergence i Unió, laundered 40 billion euros, and is that at the same time they made the biggest rise in taxes of all democracy. Two, as bait was not attractive, dropped it from 10% to 3%. Unbelievable about 3%, the famous three percent phrase is always coming out. [[Applauds]] Three, they amended the Penal Code so that the best of each house - Bárcenas, Rato, Pujol and Diego Torres - whitened capital from where it is not known. By the way, more than seven hundred defrauders with open criminal cases took her in to avoid, of course, prison. Fourth and last, the saddest, with the excuse of the bank bailout and the economic crisis they forgot the most needy with social cuts. Even in recent years - as you know - almost three thousand staff members of the Tax Agency have been reduced in the fight against fraud. I'm done, Mr. President. Some strive to get rid of the rich; others strive, like their lordships in the People's Party, to make the rich much richer; and yet from Citizens we want to get rid of the poor and recover the working middle class. You must bring to this House, as Mr Montoro has promised, a decree-law which contemplates the measures against fraud, as we have established in the investiture pact. And leave tax amnesties to the corrupt! We demand tax relief from taxpayers, those who have fulfilled their tax obligations. And, of course, they could count on our support if they meet each and every one of these conditions for the spending ceiling. Ladies and gentlemen, the end does not justify the means. Not everything applies when it comes to the suffering of the most needy people, when, moreover, they unconstitutionally and insolidarily paid the special tax declaration, that is, Mr Montoro's tax amnesty, his amnesty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Ten. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. We have been discussing this issue for more than a week, and we have also been talking for almost five years about Mr Montoro's and the People's Party's tax amnesty. What we are bringing here today is a reprobation, which our group supports radically, because we believe that it is fully justified, but we are also making a reflection. It is clear that Mr Montoro is not very concerned about this and the other day, in the Committee on Finance, he made it very clear with his long presentations in which he was truly relaxed and, therefore, we could not say that the People's Party is concerned about this type of reproach. Plus, it looks like he's gonna collect them until he gets to the whole team without anything happening. This must make us reflect especially on all those who are not the People's Party and who support this type of reprobation, because it highlights to some extent the inability to carry out this type of democratic request and the need to explore initiatives such as those we have done and tried not long ago - such as the motion of censure - which have been carried out to a good extent absolutely reprimand the Government by coup and, therefore, are truly effective and not merely declaratory. Why? Because many extremely serious issues are taking place that require political consequences. This one that we are bringing here today - I insist again -, that of fiscal amnesty, is probably one of the most serious, because it clearly shows, in a naked way, the neoliberal policy of the People's Party; that is, the People's Party, whose economic policy consists essentially in accepting not only inequality but also in proposing that those who are in the highest, richer strata must have facilities because supposedly always in a speculative way are those who create wealth, because this is their theoretical approach that always underlies their practical policies, highlights it with a fiscal amnesty that allows inequality between the majority of the population that pays their taxes in accordance with the Constitution in its article 31, compared with a minority of the population that has been defrauded for years and that nevertheless finds itself with a tool that allows it to launder its defrauded money and, at the same time, to pay a truly ridiculous penalty, which in some cases - as has already been saidhere , and over the last few years - does not even reach2%. Therefore, what we have is a case of extreme gravity that even the Constitutional Court has been right to point out; that is, bearing in mind that there is no criminal consequence whatsoever for absolutely no one for having done this kind of barbarity. I think it is obvious that the People's Party knew that this was an unconstitutional initiative, and yet they did. Mr Montoro said that there was no alternative, that it was fiscal amnesty or chaos, in this logic of the People's Party quite simplistic. I think it is also clear that no one believes that and that there are a lot of economic policy alternatives to raise more than EUR 12 billion, which is what was finally collected. I simply believe that it is clear that no one believes the story of the People's Party and Mr Montoro. It is clear what the intentions of the People's Party were and it is clear what alternatives they might have chosen and did not implement. [[The lady]] The People's Party and Mr Montoro considered that with this tool they were going to raise EUR 25 billion and, therefore, we must draw a conclusion. They made an estimate, so the People's Party government knows more or less how much money is being defrauded and how it could be reached. This, beyond what we have discussed in recent years, is what I would like to highlight, because our group is very drawn to the attention of how a fiscal amnesty that in July 2012 had raised 50 million euros out of the 2500 expected, a very small amount, I would even dare to say that ridiculous in relative terms, how it is possible that being 50 in July, by the turn of the summer the 1000 million euros would be reached. This has only one explanation which is sometimes hidden between the numbers but which is very relevant, and is that the Ministry of Finance and the People's Party government have been putting themselves off phones all summer, calling the tax advisors of this country to tell them: you have to trust that this instrument gives legal certainty. That is, the People's Party knows where the accomplices of the defrauders are, where the managers of those who defraud are. He knows all that, because he knows where he has to go to try to convince them that they are hosting something as unpleasant for the social majority as it is a tax amnesty. In short, the People's Party cannot deceive anyone; it knows that there are defrauders in this country, it knows where these great defrauders are and it puts a tool to its measure. This is something we have been saying for five years - we have said much more in recent months - and now the Constitutional Court says so. I think there are well-founded reasons to reproach Mr Montoro, that if he were here he would be smiling, which leads us to the original reflection: it is a matter of reproach; what must be done is to throw the People's Party away so that this is not simply a forum of opinion but an effective policy. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u101	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Socialist Party is calling for the rejection of the Minister for Finance and Public Service, and we in the People's Parliamentary Group are asking ourselves why this rejection is being called for. Because the minister is good at doing his job? Because it has been tremendously effective in the measures it has taken? Because he's doing his job right? Is that why you're asking for your reprobation? What bothers you with Minister Montoro? Or does the Socialist Party have a real obsession with Minister Montoro because he reminds them that twice he had to get Spain out of the hole in which you left it both in 1996 and 2012? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] The minister has a long political trajectory with an impeccable service sheet in the service of the general interest of Spain, and that service sheet cannot be stained with insults, disqualifications or reprobations, because they will be able to like it more or less, they will be able to try to slander it, but what is certain is that their policies work and are effective, and have worked twice; they have transformed the red numbers into blue numbers and today Spain is once again leading economic growth and job creation, without cuts, of course, in public services, because today Spain, thanks to these fiscal policies, manages to collect more taxes and can better pay those public services. We, from the People's Parliamentary Group, of course, abide by and respect the ruling of the Constitutional Court, as it cannot otherwise be, but that ruling declares unconstitutional the form, as has already been repeated on several occasions, and gives full legal effect to fiscal regularization. Minister Montoro's career has not begun with this fiscal regularization and the history of Spain began in 2012 when the People's Party government came to the government. There was a government of Mr Zapatero who denied the crisis, did not take appropriate measures and there was a socialist government that sent more than three and a half million Spaniards to unemployment. By the way, you ask again and again that the minister apologize to the Spaniards; I have not yet heard any member of the Socialist Party apologize to those Spaniards you sent to unemployment. [[Applauds]] Never. The measures of the Minister of Finance worked for the second time. Oh, my God, they worked! Ladies and gentlemen, the first step of this minister within a few days of arriving at the government was not fiscal regularization, but, as you know, a set of tax measures to raise taxes to higher incomes and large companies, which with you, with the Socialist Party, did not pay taxes; many IBEX companies did not pay taxes. Tax collection collapsed - 60 billion in two years - and more than half of that collapse was because large companies did not pay corporate tax. In just two years the Socialist Party lost 60 billion and did nothing. You, the tax justices, the Robin Hoods of the tax system allowed that collapse without any change. This rise in taxes on big companies and people with greater purchasing power was done fairly and fairly and then compensated at the end of the legislature with the biggest drop in taxes on democracy and worked, because in 2017 we are going to recover the pre-crisis collection levels. Gentlemen of the opposition, their problem is that they talk a lot and do little. On the basis of noise and reprobations they seek to conquer the sympathy of the Spaniards, but the Spaniards are serious, hardworking and responsible people, and we are very clear that with our bread and with that of our children we do not play and therefore they trust again and again in the People's Party. And, yes, of course there has been a fiscal regularization in a national emergency situation, and we are not ashamed of it because there has been a transparent tax regularization, where the defrauders who hid their assets and rents from the Public Treasury have had to be portrayed with names and surnames, and there have been very fat fish, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, who were at the bottom of the sea with you and no one bothered you, they were left with rositas, but there were politicians, artists, sportsmen, businessman. It doesn't matter if they were from one political party or another, they were defrauders and those fat fish were at the bottom of the sea with the Socialist Party. [[The lady]] As a result of this fiscal regularisation, 40 billion euros, 4 points of GDP, which previously did not exist, now pay their taxes to the Public Treasury each year. What hypocrisy, socialists, to ask for the Minister's reprobation when the greatest fiscal amnesty is called prescription, which is what you were allowing to do, the prescription of millions of debts and hundreds of crimes. Socialists, not only did 40 billion come to pass, but that special tax declaration made it possible to investigate the origin of these funds, because fiscal regularization neither cleans nor erases crimes, as we have repeated on numerous occasions. If not, ask the historical leader of the Socialist Party, Mr Fernández Villa, who brought the bank bundles of bills to bloom in this regularization. I'm just finishing up, ladies and gentlemen, because I'm running out of time. You will be able to disqualify, demand cessations and reprobations, but above the noise of words are the facts, because works are loves, and here are the historical results achieved in the fight against fraud, 65 billion, thanks to the measures adopted by the People's Party Government, thanks to the measures of this minister that you want to reprobate. In the view of the People's Parliamentary Group, there can be no reproach on the part of a finance minister who has achieved very effectively the objectives pursued: that we should all pay so that we can all pay less and that we can continue to lower taxes on families and businesses in order to continue to grow and create jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs Madrazo. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S LEFT, TO GUARANTEE IDEOLOGIC, RELIGIOUS AND CULTURAL FREEDOMS. [[File number 173/000037]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u104	We continue with the motion following urgent questioning of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, to guarantee ideological, religious and religious freedom. For the author group of the initiative, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess to you that for Republicans and Republicans today is an important afternoon because we have been trying for years to see what we believe is going to happen today, that is to say that there will be a parliamentary majority that will urge the Government to submit, before the end of the next session, that is, before the end of the current year, a bill to replace the Organic Law on Religious Freedom and Worship of 1980. We believe that it is important because our society is not much like that of the 1980s, because we also believe that it is essential to guarantee equality and non-discrimination of all options of religious or non-religious conscience and because it is also essential to guarantee the neutrality of the State. It is clear that the 1980 law has all the capacities contained in the Constitution in order to guarantee ideological freedom and, of course, also religious and religious freedom. He told them that we've been trying for many years and we have to admit that there was some time when it seemed that everything was going to be achieved. Too bad it was not achieved, because if in 2010 the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party had fulfilled the agreement signed - I say signed - between the Republican Left of Catalonia and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party we would now have the law passed and it would be years that would be in force. I remind you that it was agreed and after a few months of the agreement President Zapatero concluded that they were not in a position to comply with the agreed, agreed and signed. Then we tried again with proposals of law, but they were defeated by the parliamentary majority, also by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. It is true, then, that we were about to achieve this in 2010. Then came the absolute majority of the People's Party and it is clear that we have not only not made progress, but that in recent times we have seen how we retreated in everything that affects the progress that we assumed we would achieve in accordance with the potentialities, I repeat, of the same Spanish Constitution in this area. It seems that things have changed and today there will be a parliamentary majority and we will see whether or not the People's Party complies. In any case, it is clear that if the People's Party over the course of these months does not feel concerned by the parliamentary majority, then it will be time to pull out all the ammunition again, in our case the legislative proposals that we have been presenting over these years, and perhaps, taking into account the precedent of today's vote, it would even be possible to present a legislative proposal signed by the various progressive groups present in this House. So, we understand that our parliamentary initiative today is only what it intends to do, let me say the popular expression, open the melon and then, once the melon is opened, when the Government presents its bill or we look for the formula to overcome its non-partisanism, that of the Government, we will already address all the issues that may separate us. Today, I could read you a long list of conflicting issues that must be addressed, from the presence of religious symbols in public buildings to the participation of public offices in religious ceremonies or rites, the collection of donations that citizens can make freely on the part of the State, donations that may or may not take account of the taxes that confessions should pay, whether or not public subsidies are finalistic in nature, ultimately serving to sustain a confession. Another issue that will have to be addressed is the exemption from payment of taxes on the part of confessions. It is clear that there will also be a need to discuss the need for foundations linked to religious confessions to be governed by the Law on Foundations, i.e. also that the Historical Heritage Law or the autonomous laws are those that deal with everything that regulates the heritage of religious confessions; also about civil marriage and how and how civil marriage enters and is essential to validate other formulas and other institutions; about the public education system confessional or secular. I mean, there's a long list of issues to be addressed. For example, today the Socialist Party is presenting us with an amendment that we cannot accept, not because we do not agree, because Mr Elorza's amendment, which is very correct, is also very correct, but we understand that now is not the time to start discussing whether or not we agree on many issues. I have read a list of ten subjects, but there are thirty or forty. We'll have to talk about the concordat, we'll have to talk about everything. And since we need to talk about everything, it is interesting, necessary, perhaps essential, to create a scenario in which Parliament discusses which law requires the 21st century for an advanced society like ours. So we are celebrating and you will understand that, after ten, twelve or fifteen Republican Left initiatives in recent years without having achieved what we are going to achieve today, from humility to us it would be very important for a majority today to tell the government to introduce this bill before the end of 2017. Let us see if we can do this this time and there is a parliamentary majority. We would also invite the Citizens' Parliamentary Group because I believe that what we are presenting is neither disheartened nor radical. It is worth it that we all build this scenario to be able to discuss a bill before the end of 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. In defence of the Socialist Group's amendment, Mr Elorza González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u107	Thank you, Madam President. We should begin the debate by asking ourselves whether we are really a confessional State, as stipulated in the Constitution in its article 16. The answer would be that in practice not. This is because we have been suffering with the People's Party Government for a number of years now a series of major constitutional attacks that are leading to the degradation of the confessional state in daily practice. That is why, Mr Tardà, it seems to the Socialist Group that the presentation of your motion, with the debate that is undoubtedly opening, is very timely, a motion that will be adopted, and it is quite clear that this Law on Religious Freedom of 1980 has been completely expired. According to article 16 of the Constitution, Spain is an aconfessional country, but what is really happening? There are a number of examples that I want to bring to the fore today that really contradict this reference to the Constitution. The People's Party Government has systematically degraded the idea of the confessional State, as it has done with the rule of law and the welfare State; that is, what strengthens, as is evident every day, this Government is the general state of corruption, but let us see what is happening with concrete examples. In the 21st century, the authorities, ministers and mayors continue to award medals and decorations to virgins. The point, yes, is that we also make secular parties, even if it is with the excuse of following a civic procedure. In 2017, a democratic state harassed by the PP still holds a dictator, Franco, buried at the foot of a major altar, which is a gesture of contempt for thousands of his victims, whose remains pile up behind the dictator, hidden. In 2017 there are still tax exemptions, deductions, aid derived from the IRPF quota and a church of bishops that acts without transparency of any kind and that maintains, in part with these economic resources, media to influence politics and attack permanently to the left. In 2017, a right-wing government continues to prioritize the subject of confessional religion in schools thanks to Lomce while devaluing education in values for citizenship. In 2017, a government that does not respect the social and democratic commitments of the Constitution orders the armies to place the constitutional flag half-ast for Christ's death with the excuse of being part of a secular tradition. The question is why the army worships the traditions of the Catholic Church. Well, in relation to the above and as it may be known, there is an order from the Chief of Defence Staff, which reports to Minister De Cospedal, who was sent to all military facilities on Monday 10 April under the title of Honors to Holy Week. That order established that from 2:00 p.m. on Holy Thursday until the early morning of the Sunday of Resurrection the national teaching would wave at half a pole in all units, bases, centers and quarters. Different media outlets picked up the news that the Minister of Defence did not want to pronounce on this letter, but confirmed that the wave of the national flag on certain dates, such as Holy Week, is part of the secular tradition of the armies and that this decision is integrated into the normality of the acts of internal regime that take place in the military units. The statements of Minister De Cospedal, according to which the Armed Forces celebrate religious festivities because they have their own religious and cultural heritage, lead the Socialist Parliamentary Group to formulate its disagreement and its rejection with an anachronistic practice. I wonder: what cultural and religious background is one that neither has legal basis nor respects the confessional character of the State under the Constitution, article 16? Since when does the army maintain its own religious heritage contrary to the Constitution? Is the Government applying religious freedom to an institution of the State such as the Armed Forces? We really do not share the pilgrim argument of the minister, Mrs. De Cospedal, that during the Holy Week the constitutional flag is placed half-baked in the very headquarters of the ministry and in the other military facilities responds to a secular tradition of the armies. In any case, if that were the case, it would obviously be necessary to cut them because there were no supposed traditions of the Armed Forces contrary to a confessional State, a supposed tradition combining patriotism with flag and Catholic faith was not admissible. We witness a genuine violation of a constitutional principle and the PP does so to maintain an idea of Spain that does not break ties with national Catholicism, a Spain subject to the conveniences of the Church on different levels. There is also a serious fact - to finish - and it is that there is an existing order of the Chief of Staff that contravenes the royal decree promulgated in 2010 by which he was then Minister of Defense, Carme Chacón, which regulated the situations in which he must wave the flag at half a pole. This order by Mrs De Cospedal therefore does not respect the principles of equality, democracy, religious freedom and separation between the Church and the State. The Socialists - I conclude - denounce that we are facing an anachronistic and provocative attitude towards the feelings of most citizens that defend values of secularism and democratic values. For this reason, we have tabled this amendment to the ERC motion, which we see is not going to be accepted, but in any case we will put forward other parliamentary initiatives aimed at achieving this goal, and it is that we do not have any other Holy Week with national flags at midpoint in the barracks in contravention of the constitutional principle of a confessional state, which gives us obvious shame to the socialists. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Elorza. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Salvador Armendáriz, in position-setting. [[Pause]] I don't see him in the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Ciuro i Buldo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Tardà, indeed, we will give you our support for the handling of this motion, so that you can review this law dating back to 1980. In addition, we will do so from the gaze imposed on us by the twenty-first century, not the nineteenth or twentieth centuries, a time when there was only one dominant religion and many of these initiatives were almost always inspired by Catholic anti-clericalism; I understand that since it is no longer the only existing religion, it will not be focused from this point of view. That is, we understand that we must move forward to better guarantee what is a confessional State, in fact, in the Catalonian State that we want for the twenty-first century onwards religious freedom must be built up as a fundamental right within a fully confessional State, and therefore how not to defend freedom of expression, ideological and religious, of course, but also to defend that this religious freedom is not only an expression of doors within, that is, that it is not left in the intimate and private sphere of families, on the contrary, that religious manifestations can be expressed publicly. Everyone has the right to be able to display those symbols with which he feels more comforted and to believe in what seems better to him or what he feels more comforted. Therefore, as I say, we are fundamentally in favour of each individual choosing how he wants to live his religion, and therefore we would be further removed from secularism and more in favour of confessionality in order to defend, as I say to him, that everyone can feel and believe what is best for him. There are many religions in Catalonia, at least thirteen, and so many in the Spanish state, or more, but four with notorious roots. They all have agreements, contracts with the State to be able to relate to it, but I reiterate that we will not object to revising this law, on the contrary, we will vote in favour, but certainly our action - if we do not arrive in time to process the one that can be presented in Congress - will be aimed at making confessionality and religious freedom a value for the Catalonia State of the 21st century. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are presented with a motion calling on the Government to introduce an organic bill to replace the current Organic Law on Religious Freedom with another one which includes, together with this religious freedom, that of worship and the ideological so - it is said in the motion - to better comply with article 16 of the Constitution, which guarantees the three freedoms mentioned above. In addition, the proposed reform is based on two objectives indicated by the promoter: to ensure equality and non-discrimination of all options of conscience, religious or other, and to ensure the separation, neutrality and secularity of the State. From our point of view and from the society to which we represent politically through the vote, we consider that the freedom of thought in which both religious freedom is protected through freedom of conscience and ideological freedom, whose vehicle of manifestation is freedom of expression, is protected and respected in our legal system. As has already been said in this House, the Organic Law on Religious Freedom regulates religious collective expression based on religious belief and its application has so far registered more than 17 thousand religious entities and has encouraged the establishment of cooperation agreements with those confessions that are strongly rooted in the beliefs of citizens, and agreements have been signed in this regard with Muslims, Jews, the Catholic Church and evangelical entities. Thus, since the 1980s, the Organic Law on Religious Freedom has complied in an undisputed manner, in a notorious and majority manner, with the guarantee of religious freedom and worship demanded by article 16 of the Constitution, as well as with State neutrality with regard to any confession, as well as with the mandate of cooperation with those with greater roots. Certainly, the current model of confessionality and non-discrimination with regard to religious diversity embodied in the Organic Law on Religious Freedom is not the only model in the development of article 16 of the Constitution, since a more active secularism such as that proposed in the motion would also be without prejudice to the constitutional mandate. However, and as I have already pointed out, we do not consider that in the present state of affairs we are faced with a social demand with sufficient entity to undertake a regulation such as the proposal, which should also not be an obstacle to the occasional denunciation of specific situations and behaviours which are not precisely manifestations of neutrality, as we have recently done, for example, with regard to registrations by the Catholic Church, or to those institutional manifestations which are a well-known expression of religious belief, as some speakers have also pointed out before me in the use of the word, or also with today's ruling of the European Court of Justice declaring itself contrary to the principle of competence that the commercial activity of religious confessions is exempt from taxation. It referred in particular to schools run by religious entities. With regard to ideological freedom, which includes non-deist conscience beliefs or choices, which the motion considers should be dealt with in conjunction with religious choices, we do not consider that failure to do so in the manner that is proposed undermines the values of equality and non-discrimination of the different options of conscience, religious or not, but the terms of comparison with those values of equality and non-discrimination should be established between religions on the one hand and non-deist conscience choices on the other, without the said being an obstacle to the treatment of the different things equally, but no longer as a constitutional mandate but as a free choice. In short, we believe that the current regulation of religious freedom in a separate and unique way with regard to the free expression and manifestation of options for non-deist consciences does not prejudice the constitutional values of equality and non-discrimination, although their joint treatment would not do so either. Non-religious, non-faith-based beliefs, because they are not regulated in the normative group of religious beliefs, do not mean that they are not protected, because ideological freedom, as a fundamental right, finds protection and protection both individually and collectively to spread in freedom of expression, and to associate as a right of association by those who share them. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u113	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I began to hear some of the things that have been said, I must confess that I have been about to give in to a slight depression that has occurred to me, and I have fully recovered, with the intervention of the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party. And that's because I believe that one of the things that bring us here, one of the ways to define our role in society is to introduce order into disorder, not disorder into order. I believe that more than a matter of substance, what confuses me with the Republican Left initiative is a lack of systematic and I wonder why. You express a need and I am not particularly belligerent there; perhaps you are right and need to unite religious freedom with ideological freedom in one law. Perhaps I am the one who is wrong, but allow me to explain to you, now that it is my turn, that Law 7/1980 on Religious Freedom has fulfilled its role and is fulfilling it perfectly. And if what it is about - what you have not done, what it is about - is to take advantage of this circumstance to enter a memorial of grievances - and from there came this slight depression - that sounds too much to the two Spains, with the Church in the middle as a source of conflict. And that's not; in the 21st century, that's not. Among other reasons, as I said to them, the Law on Religious Freedom perfectly fulfils its role. The Church and the State are perfectly separated; the State is not an atheistic or secular State, it is an aconfessional State. The Constitution refers in article 16 to a particular confession and the fact that it does so means not that the State professes a religion, but that there is a certain special relationship, which I am not going to defend in a particular way here, but simply stress that it is in the Constitution. So I say to the gentlemen of the Republican Left of Catalonia that if they have a model of legislation - because they believe that we really have to legislate ideological freedom together with religious freedom - they make a proposal. But what you are telling us is that we urge the Government to regulate this, and then we are told that the Government is on the other side, on the other end of what we want. Then I don't understand, I don't understand what it's about. [[Applauds]] It is true that religious freedom and ideological freedom are cited by the Constitution in the same article, it is true, and this could lead to thinking, in a somewhat simple analysis, that by that fact they should be regulated jointly. I believe that this is not the case, and I believe that it is because ideological freedom is fully and absolutely guaranteed in Spain, and we only have to go to article 53 of the Constitution to remember that those rights and freedoms of Chapter 2, Section 1a, of Title I enjoy the guardianship of ordinary judges, so anyone can come and seek such guardianship, being subject, moreover, to the principles of preference and summarism. If we add this to the fact that article 53 itself says that all the powers of the State are bound by these rights and freedoms, it seems to me that the guarantee is absolute. No one who does not want to exaggerate - for reasons I was going to say that they escape me but I do not miss anything - can present this country as a country in which religious freedom is not sufficiently protected and protected. Therefore, Mr Tardà, perhaps you would be able to convince me of the need to regulate this, but what I do not share is the need to regulate it together or much less that the procedure is to urge the Government to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. Mr Monereo Pérez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u115	Madam President, the debate that brings us here today is a partly anachronistic and partly politically fundamental debate. This is contradictory, but I'm going to explain myself. It is anachronistic because the institute that regulates this society is out of time. It's anachronistic because it's out of time as society has changed enormously. This is a secular, open, dynamic society. Next week we'll have gay pride week. A society that has changed so much. The great problem that exists - that is why it is anachronistic - is that society is secular but the State is not; society is secular and has changed but the State is not. That is why it is deeply necessary to discuss this politically. Why is it necessary to discuss it politically? For a fundamental question: the enormous privileges that the Catholic Church has in this country. Just one thing: registration. There are thousands of registrations made by the Catholic Church. Entire streets of my city, of Cordoba, have been registered. In other words, the Catholic Church takes advantage of a law made by the PP to make the biggest real estate scandal in Spanish history. Is it worth discussing this politically, yes or no? I come from a tradition that has moved between two worlds: the world of national Catholicism, hard and terrible of national Catholicism, whose fundamental example is Cuelgamuros, the Valley of the Fallen, and the world of Azaña, the world of the republic, the secular world. But I have an advantage over other generations: I was taught the secular world by the Catholic Church herself, the grassroots communities, the men and women of the Church who told us that, in fact, Azaña was right. They also taught me the incompatibility of capitalism and Christianity and taught me much more: the need for socialism. I've been on it for 40 years. Now, where are we, comrades and companions, friends and friends? Where are we? Pope Francis is a miracle, if you will allow me; it is a miracle, as John XXIII was. Pope Francis gives us a fundamental, decisive element, which is the possibility of building a great alliance for civilization. Pope Francis gives us the opportunity to fight to save this civilization, this culture against the culture of war, against the culture of mercantilization, against the culture of poverty, against the culture of the ecological crisis. Pope Francis gives us a path that allows us to lay believers - because lay people are believers, we have beliefs and values - and Christians unite in an alliance to save the world at an exceptional time. I'm done. He once said Tierno Galvan that God did not forget the old Marxists. I'm much less theistic, I can only indicate that when I see Jesus surrounded by soldiers with the quiet bayonet I always interpret that that was not his world; his world was never that, the one I learned from my parents and from the tradition itself. From that perspective, I want to tell you that God is indeed always behind the old Marxists, but since I am more of Pasolini, I will say that in my case God is always next to an old Republican, communist and atheist. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Monereo Pérez. Mr Martínez Vázquez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me begin by telling you that it is not easy to set the position of my group on the motion tabled by Mr Tardà, simply because we do not know what Mr Tardà is proposing. The operative part of the motion is limited to urging the Government to introduce a bill to replace the current Organic Law on Religious Freedom, but it says absolutely nothing more. What organic law of religious freedom do you want, Mr. Tardà? We don't know. If we read the explanatory statement, neither are the intentions of the proposing group clarified; it is limited to saying that it is necessary to move towards a more secular society in which citizens can exercise their rights under conditions of freedom and equality. In this matter of exercising the rights in conditions of freedom and equality we fully agree, so I would like my first words from this rostrum to be precisely to show the solidarity of my parliamentary group with Rosario, the religious attacked only a few days ago in Granada for that reason, for exercising their religious freedom; a cowardly act of intolerance, of brutality against a woman because she is religious. [[Applauds]] You also say in the motion that the Organic Law of 1980 is an obsolete law that omits the treatment of ideological freedom. It is not easy to understand this reasoning. As Mr Girauta has said, ideological freedom is perfectly protected and protected in our Constitution and in our legal system. There is no better example, Mr Tardà, of ideological freedom than listening to you in this House. With so little argument, in view of the fact that the Socialist Group has been repeated many times in its inquiry than the supposedly questioned Government, I am tempted to think that the initiative intended something else; I wanted the Socialist Group to portray itself publicly by subjecting it to a kind of quality control, a test of cotton on the purity of its ideological postulates. We've heard Mr. Olorza talk about the mid-pole flag. Well, there is some contradiction in his speech when it is Valladolid City Hall itself and other municipalities governed by the socialist party who maintain that same tradition. Mr Tardà, your proposal - you argued in the question to the minister - is not a radical proposal; your proposal is simply inconsistent, it is sterile, it lacks content; there is no proposal! Freedom of religion, freedom of belief in article 16 of the Constitution entailed a twofold requirement: the neutrality of the public authorities in line with the State's confessionality and the maintenance of the cooperation relations of those same public authorities with the various churches. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left, neutrality does not mean indifference and much less hostility; in the same way that equality does not mean egalitarianism or parification. Look, I'm going to give you a quote that I think is correct and prudent: The state must be respectful of religious experience; a secular state does not mean neutral with respect to the religious fact; one thing is that the state is secular and the other is that it is secular. For they are not the words of any dangerous recalcitrant conservative, they are the words of Oriol Junqueras, president of your political party, whom you should perhaps hear more by defending these kinds of initiatives. The premise of religious freedom, the premise of freedom of worship, is respect. Therefore, I invite you to read a resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a resolution entitled: The fight against intolerance and discrimination, with particular attention to Christians, adopted on 29 January 2015, Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. What a great opportunity you have missed, you have missed all the speakers, to condemn the acts of violence and intolerance that we have seen only a few days ago in the chapel of the Autonomous University of Madrid. My group, of course, strongly condemns them. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are more than 17,700 religious entities registered in the register of the Ministry of Justice. The well-known roots have been recognized in our country of the Catholic Church, the Federation of Evangelical Religious Entities of Spain, the Federation of Jewish Communities of Spain, the Islamic Commission of Spain, the Orthodox Church, the Federation of Buddhist Communities of Spain, the Christian Church of Jehovah's Witnesses and the Church of Jesus Christ of the Saints of recent days. Where is the obsolescence of the 1980 law? If these are the values that you defend, that is, if you defend tolerance, cooperation and respect you will count, I would count, on my parliamentary group; but if what you defend is the progressive elimination of the religious fact or of some specific manifestations of it, you have no doubt that this will not be found either in the Constitution or in the organic law or in this parliamentary group. So allow me, Mr Tarda, to question the true substance and intent of your initiative. We, in the People's Parliamentary Group, will always be at the side of freedom, tolerance, pluralism and coexistence, and you have, sadly, recently become too accustomed to division and discord. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Vázquez. Mr Tardà, although you said this in your speech, we need to know whether or not you accept the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u119	We do not accept it; not by no coincidence, but by not convenient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u120	They don't accept it. Okay. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, on the negation of the Government to equip it with equal and non-transferable parental and maternity leave. [[File number 173/000038]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u121	We conclude with the motion following urgent questioning of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the government's refusal to equalize paternity and maternity leave in an equal and non-transferable manner. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u122	Thank you, President. I go up to this rostrum almost without papers - with few notes - but I can afford it because I'm going to talk about something I've been talking about for over a year. And it's not very relevant that I've been talking about this for over a year, what's more relevant is that the Ppiina Platform has been talking about this for over a decade. I think the reasons are well known, and the reasons have already been discussed in this House. In fact, on 16 October last year a non-legislative proposal was adopted calling on the Government to ensure that permits are equal, non-transferable and remunerated at 100 per cent when we talk about cases of birth, reception or adoption. This debate, which has been held in this House with speakers from the various parliamentary groups, has already given us quite a lot of agreement. We clearly have a diagnosis, according to which we already know that women have worse wages and worse working conditions, and we agree with that diagnosis. We agree that we have a serious wage gap problem that generates a serious gender inequality problem in this country. We are also clear that eradicating it - because that is what has been said in this House - would mean an increase in gross domestic product. We are clear that care must be shared, and we say words as conciliation and we say words as co-responsibility. We are clear that women are considered at-risk workers because we can become pregnant or we can wish to have creatures by adopting or welcoming; therefore, we are less interesting workers for companies and for the same reason we have much more difficulties when we want to carry out that motherhood. And we are also clear that men, other progenitors, must have the right to care. There are more agreements. For example, we agree that we want a more egalitarian society because it is fairer and because it is also more efficient, because it is more effective. We agree that women are in inequality when they see us as workers in front of the male colleagues who work with us. We agree that men have to have equal labour rights, because right now they do not have the same rights to the extent that their parental leave is four weeks and not sixteen weeks when a birth, adoption or reception occurs. And I could go on with the deals if they would also do me the favor of making the runrun lower. And there are more agreements that were concluded a few weeks ago and also at the beginning of the year the People's Party bench and the Citizens' bench, such as the two-week rise, a rise that involves law enforcement but that in any case we celebrate and rejoice at all. But what we want is that this two-week climb, which involves a month of care, is not postureum. Understand me well, because I'm sure they don't want us to talk about posture at parenting time on the part of the other parent, but one month involves smelling a little baby colony, changing some diapers, and a little bit more about what the first months of parenting mean during the first year. The proposal for a law of the Ppiina, an initiative that we have presented twice from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, could only pose an economic problem, which is not true for two reasons. One, that Ppiina herself and some economists have made it very clear that this cannot be a problem for the government to veto its consideration and its subsequent processing and, two, because everything that changes people's material conditions costs money. So are we not approving anything that involves a budget or do we not want to approve things that involve a cost? It is a question of what we want to invest resources in: whether we want to invest resources in rescuing banks - which, by the way, throw people out of their homes - or whether we want to invest them in having a fairer and more equal society through equality in the employment situation and in the care situation. It is a question of whether we want to devote resources to overruns in construction or whether we really want to take this seriously that we want a more democratic and more egalitarian country. Rights cannot be for when they can, rights cannot be - if we talk about subjective rights - for when there is a budget. As we say on my land, let's not leave it pa prau this. It's about looking at priorities. Everything costs and decisions have to be made, but there are decisions that cost but they also reverse; they reverse economically, socially and culturally, because we said that fighting the wage gap will bring us up the gross domestic product. We are talking about a change of productive model and cultural paradigm. We're saying that when men go to a pharmacy with a baby in their arms they're going to have an equal relationship with the pharmaceutical company because they're not going to be seen as worse caregivers. We're saying that women, when they have a job interview, won't have to wear that risk worker label because they're a woman. I'm closing up. On 18 October, this House adopted a non-legislative proposal to urge the Government to initiate this process of equal, non-transferable and 100 per cent remunerated permits law. Two vetoes later, one autumn, one winter and one spring later, we are back here and we say to you in this motion three very clear things: that, please and out of shame, the veto attitude on the part of the Government is already laid down with this proposal for a law; that the right to care for all people on equal terms is recognized - that is why we accept the Socialist Group's amendment, because we see it relevant - and that all groups that really feel involved and called to talk about feminist policies, equality policies in this House, let us work to bring that law to fruition. I see that the feminist word is so fashionable that even ministers say it that I couldn't wait a week for them to talk about feminism. [[Applauds]] Let us take advantage of the fact that feminism is fashionable and make feminist and equality policies. Every time we say that equality begins in education - and with this I conclude - we are going to take it seriously because they can say a lot the lines that are agreed in a state pact for education in the curriculum regarding how men and women are, since they are the same, but if in their homes they see that at the time when their mothers had them they have had to leave work, as happens to so many women in this country right now, and that it is their father who does not have time to care for them because he is working, if they are seeing that in his home, the textbook can say what it pleases us that we have not changed the cultural or educational model of this country. It therefore seems to me that this measure has plenty of grounds for us to take equal and non-transferable permits seriously, making a real transformation of justice in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Castañón. In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position on this occasion, Mr Matute García de Jalón, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. I too come almost without papers because for two minutes I don't need too much text. We are going to support the initiative proposed today United We can because we believe that it already had to be approved in fact, but in any case because we believe that it is a step, probably not decisive but important, when it comes to ending a reality, that is the reality of heteropatriarchy and heteronormality that is still imposed today in the set of laws that exist in the Spanish State, and one of the clearest and most obvious is this one that concerns us; a legislation, that of Social Security, that continues to believe that care is a matter for women. So he believes that he grants total equality between women and men in care only when the woman dies - little more can be added - and because we also believe that this law continues to consider that care can only affect and compete with women and, therefore, prevents egalitarianism, making it difficult for men who want to be co-responsible, caregivers from the minute one, to be so. It was also said, and we share, that the current reality penalizes women in the labour and social spheres, that it expels them from the labour market, that it favours entrepreneurs to continue to behave so civically, so undemocraticly, that they do not hire women because of the risk of future pregnancies and because they condemn women to a situation of dependence, poverty and precarious work; that is, a society that is not democratic, a society that is not worthy of sustaining itself and being lived. We also believe that it is economically bearable without, as was said, having to attend to the matrix or the radical change of the economic matrix. It is not even a matter of discussing whether work and employment, whether unpaid work and the work of the care economy can be sustained, but with what already exists this change can be sustained economically. I'm done. We believe that co-responsibility for care, which would be more or less shared custody starting from the first minute, must be fostered by the public authorities, must be favoured by the public authorities. Perhaps we would avoid the partisan use of shared custody in subsequent disputes between adults.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u126	Thank you, President. Again we discuss equal and non-transferable permits, this is like a loop, and it is that the lordships of the People's Party do not know how to lose. Since 18 October last year, we have been waiting for the mandate of this House to be implemented. The parliamentary majority told them eight months ago that equal and non-transferable paternity and maternity leave had to be developed, but you have no case. That equality for you is not important enough for us to know, that does not surprise us, but what you are showing us now is that democracy is also secondary to you. They have lost the absolute majority, they no longer control this House, that is clear, and they do not accept it. They don't have a majority of lockdowns anymore and they don't accept it. That's clearly not knowing how to lose. This is like the only son who is suddenly going to share floor and does not accept that he no longer only makes the decisions, that they must be made by dialogue and together. And on this floor here, the decisions are no longer made by you, we can also make by others. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that victory feels bad to you, we have seen it for years, on the basis of a roll and a decree they have imposed everything that has given them the desire, but now we also know that losing feels as bad as victory. Learn to lose, accept that this House has the legislative power; accept that citizens have decided this plural parliamentary representation; accept the rules of democracy and develop once and for all equal and non-transferable permits. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. There was the X Legislature, in which we in this House were tired of talking about equal and non-transferable permits. Remember? No legislative proposals in the Equality Commission, a motion resulting from an inquiry into the then Minister Alfonso Alonso of the People's Party, and we have under no circumstances succeeded in admitting the equalization of parental leave between parents, a legal inequality which is in the Civil Code and which rewards mothers, in quotes, with sixteen weeks of leave - six compulsory - and parents at that time with only two. We managed, when we were Convergence and Union, by the voice of Congresswoman Mercè Pigem, to extend the paternity leave to four weeks. It took God and help. In fact, it was this year when it came into force, because the various Governments were extending it. Therefore, this long-awaited equality, which is a real legal inequality, is not occurring in terms of care for children. Ppiina's proposal is a good one. It equips care, allows women - it has been said - to get out of that halo of risk hiring, puts parents in the focus of care and is also good because what it does is not allow transferability; that is, everyone has their right and enjoys it on their own and what it does not allow is that care is accumulated to the other. Therefore, the inalienable and intransferable right to care for children is theirs and theirs, and the right of children to be cared for by parents is theirs. It would be a real step forward in achieving its progressive implementation. We do not ask for anything else, we do not ask for tomorrow, we ask for a progressive implementation, a progressive cultural change, a good measure that advances in equality and co-responsibility. It is good, it is positive, and we will not buy any other measure that does not pass through the legal equality of child care permits by birth and adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. Mrs Guinart has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u130	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The International Labour Organization already recognized maternity protection in a 1919 Convention, revised in 1952 and updated in 2000. In its 2000 recommendation, ILO envisages the extension of maternity leave to a minimum of eighteen weeks, in addition to medical benefits, care and funding, as well as parental leave. This recommendation also covers a whole section of health protection for pregnant or lactating women and their children. Maternity protection is essential to ensure women's access to equal opportunities and treatment in the workplace and to move towards achieving the Millennium Development Goal number 3, not to mention paragraphs 4 and 5, adopted by United Nations member States in order to reduce child mortality and improve maternal health. Provisions of various countries regulate paternity leave, and resolutions of the European Union provide for the recognition of male workers of a right which must be individual and in transferable to paternity leave on the basis of birth or the adoption of a child. We are in favour, of course, of what the United We can't, just as we were when last October 18th, in agreement with you, with other parliamentary groups and with the Platform for Equal and Intransferable Permits, the Ppiina, we amended, negotiated and supported the non-law proposal calling for the comprehensive reform of the system of paternity and maternity leave and benefits. Moreover, you know that we are working in this direction together to overcome the vetoes of the People's Party. But in the Socialist Party we also do not give up, much less, calling things by name. We want the right to paternity to be recognized and to be compulsory and non-transferable. We want to move towards equality and we have no disagreement on this issue. We have, do not doubt, the same objective, the same vocation and, ultimately, the same commitment. However, we have tabled an amendment, as we did on the occasion of the October GNP, because we think it is too imprecise to talk about parenting or rearing. Not all caregivers or caregivers or those engaged in parenting are parents and, although administrative forms should once and for all be adapted to these new realities of marriage and coexistence, that is not an obstacle to entering the realm of indefinition. Therefore, in order to achieve greater precision, we refer to section 183 of the Social Security Act, which recognizes situations in which the right to paternity can be enjoyed. We must be very rigorous and rigorous with language because, Confucius already lied, the principle of wisdom is to call things by name. For many years now, the Socialist Party has made a clear commitment to maternity and paternity leave. Without going further, the one that has implemented the PP in this 2017, extending in two weeks the paternity permit - doubling, insist you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP -, which should have entered into force already long ago, in 2011, after it was approved by a socialist government. They had it six years in a drawer and now it seems that the current government is the creator of the measure. But, I insist, bread, bread and wine, wine. And we do not settle for equivalence, for obtaining compulsory, equal and non-transferable permits in a gradual way. We have said this actively and passively, we believe that another type of benefit is necessary, so the Socialist Group has put forward initiatives to address the fact that at present one third of births do not generate any maternity or paternity benefit. We want to recognise maternity benefits for young job seekers, even if they have not contributed. And we want the Toledo Pact to address how better protection should be integrated into the new realities to which social security must respond. To this end, it is essential to define both a timetable and a specific budget to clarify the implementation of such permits. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, we have a serious problem in Spain, a problem arising from the difficulty of caring for children with permits - they will agree - too small, in addition to the lack of flexibility and hourly rationalization at work. This is a problem of reconciliation between parents, but also a problem of wage gap and labour discrimination suffered by women, as well as a demographic problem. The vegetative balance has been negative for the second consecutive year; fewer people are born than those who die, and that every year, fortunately, fewer Spaniards die. The population is ageing, with all that entails. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, Minister - now absent - do something and please do it now. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs. Guinart. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u132	Thank you very much, President. All groups in this House firmly believe in equal opportunities. The group I represent wants to equalize paternity leave with maternity leave; not only do we want to equal it, but we will achieve it and it will be a reality at the hands of the People's Party, as it is already a reality at the hands of the People's Party that the paternity leave has doubled from two to four weeks since January 1, 2017. [[Applauds]] That has been at the hands of the People's Group, the duplication of paternity leave. I'm going to do some thinking. It is essential to have a job to request the equalization of paternity leave. Ladies and gentlemen, equality begins with employment and now we can talk about employment: 500 000 jobs created from January to May. Not before, ladies and gentlemen. When governing the left, the Socialist Party, with the crisis, more than 1 300 000 women were unemployed, while now, with the Rajoy Government, not only has all the female employment that was destroyed in the crisis recovered, but we have the largest number of women working in this country, more than in the whole history of Spain, more than 8.5 million; that is, equality begins with a job. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to overcome many gaps. There's the pay gap. It cannot be that women continue to charge less than men for the same work, but it is also true - to be said - that since 2012 the wage gap has been reduced by 4 points and that Spain is below the European average. That's progressing on equal terms. Another gap is that of pensions. Historically, women have had lower pensions than men because they have contributed less to Social Security because they have had to stop working in order to care for their children. The People's Party has created a maternity supplement so that women can see their pension increased by up to 15% because they had children and had to stop working, and the pension gap has been reduced by 11 points since it ruled the People's Party. This is to bet on women and equality and to narrow the pension gap: 220 000 women have a maternity supplement. Ladies and gentlemen, there have never been so many measures for equality and conciliation. For the first time, the right to telework, the right to reduced childcare hours and the part-time contract, where protection has been equal to the full-time contract, are regulated and, as I said at the beginning, paternity leave has been doubled. This is really moving forward in conciliation and moving forward on equality, not on a mouthpiece, because, of course, the left, the Socialist Party, in 2009 created a law to increase paternity leave, a law that entered into force in 2011 but that they could not even apply when they were ruling over Mr Zapatero's disastrous economic management. The left, as always, many words and few facts. What has the People's Party done? We've doubled the paternity permit. Why? Firstly, because we carried it on the electoral programme; secondly, because we carried it on the agreement with Citizens of 150 commitments to improve Spain; thirdly, because we believe in equality between men and women; and fourthly, because we have made good economic management and we have sufficient resources to be able to double the paternity permit, because, ladies and gentlemen, this has a cost. [[Applauds]] More than €1.3 billion would have to be sought in order to match it. Therefore, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that we be serious, that we do not deceive anyone. We are going to bring this important issue to the Toledo Pact, which is where we need to discuss it - now we are just analysing all the recommendations - let us take it there, let us set a timetable for the progressive implementation and let this issue also be discussed at the social dialogue table. That is the amendment that we have tabled from the Group of the European People's Party. I don't know why you're surprised that Minister Fatima Báñez talks about feminism. I can tell you that no one like the People's Party has done so much for women in this country. So, the only thing I can think of is that you... [[Applauds.- Various Members: Uhhh!]] Yes, it's true, ladies and gentlemen, no one like the People's Party. The only thing I can think of is that you have certain prejudices, but I assure you that I do not have them towards you. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. I am convinced that this Government, just as it has doubled the paternity leave, will match the paternity leave with the maternity leave, do not hesitate. I am the first one that I want my child to grow up from a young age on equal terms, and I am convinced that children need the care of their mother and also that of their father. I have always said that the best thing I have done in life has been to have a child, but I also want to be able to reconcile, and I firmly believe that the future goes through conciliation, because I have rational schedules, so that work is compatible with life, with family, with leisure, with culture, with sport. That is where we have to reach a great deal of agreement, a great consensus. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the Toledo Pact, reach an agreement and set a timetable for the progressive implementation of equality. Everything else will be a lot of noise and a few nuts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u133	Thank you very much, Mrs. Spain. Mr Barandiaran has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u134	Good afternoon or almost good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. They will allow me to tell you that it is almost amusing to read the account of the debate that took place last day as a result of the urgent inquiry that this motion causes, and if not fun, at least healthy, because healthy is to hear that there are no substantive differences in the parliamentary arc, even between the extremes, between the PP and Podemos - if you can understand that they are extremes - because, after all, both the minister and the person who questioned her expressed agreement with the measure that was intended to be implemented through that inquiry. Obviously, I say this with irony, because of that debate, leaving the topics that everyone is in a different place, the only resulting difference was in the speed of application of the measure. On the one hand, the minister came to say that it was necessary to implement this measure and that she agreed with it but that it was necessary to do so progressively; however, the questioner, who is now the author of the motion, came to say that it had to be done in accordance with that GNP that we adopted in October 2016 and that it was a legislative measure that had to be dealt with immediately. The minister even came to say that she had begun to participate in that measure when the paternity permit had already been doubled, when, on the other hand, the amendment to article 48 bis of the Workers' Statute understood it to be a product of Law 9/2009. And being true that it was postponed for budgetary reasons, the last of them is also the work of the People's Party with the Law 48/2015 of Budgets for 2016, but the truth is that today we are here and some continue to maintain that the measure is necessary immediately and others that for budgetary reasons must be done progressively. I comment because we cannot give credibility to that interpretation, it cannot be that the only difference between political positions is the speed of implementation, the progressive implementation of that measure. I'm sorry, but that's not a plausible explanation. On the occasion of the debate on 18 October 2016, I had the opportunity to recall a report by the Employment Committee of the European Parliament of 5 April 2015 assessing the implementation of Directive 2010/18/EU on parental and maternal leave. That report accounted for the failure of States to implement the conclusions of that directive after a decade of its implementation. He pointed out that equal pay and other measures, including in maternity situations, were the only effective means of achieving a more balanced distribution of family responsibilities between men and women, since only adequate compensation would serve to achieve that result. It also recommended that consideration be given to extending the minimum length of parental leave from four to six months to ensure a better reconciliation between family life and work. This was one of the various measures provided for in that directive and in the European Parliament's report. With all due respect, these are the issues or factors that will enable us to decide, after analysis, the ideological and approach differences that may exist with regard to this particular issue, but not the time frames, not the speed, not the progressive implementation of this measure. That requires something else in which we are going to fully agree with the motion put forward by Podemos, and that is that the attitude of obstructing fundamental debates is unacceptable, and that of legislative initiatives aimed at eliminating gender imbalance is one of them. That is the fundamental issue to which we believe this motion refers; the rest should be part of the ideological debate, of the debate that we should have at the time when we are dealing with the proposed law, but it is true that it is not possible to do so because it is being impeded; only for that reason will we support GNP. [[The lady]] We would like to point out that we can agree with many other aspects, such as the one just mentioned by the representative of the People's Group a moment ago that this debate should also be the subject of the Toledo Pact, not only because the gender gap affects and has affected the pension system to the detriment of women, but because there is a factor linked to the debate on the gender gap, which is that of parenthood and motherhood and that of the viability of the pension system, which would have to be addressed from other approaches to empowering a fundamental factor - someone has commented earlier - that of promoting birth. That is true of the Toledo Pact, in addition to many other public policies, because this is a cross-cutting debate in which the protected legal interest is not exclusive; it refers to equality, it refers to the right to work, it refers to article 41 of the Constitution and to the right to a decent pension. In general, it refers to a diversity of rights or legal interests that can be treated and protected and that obliges us to do so in a comprehensive manner. But definitively - this I would like to develop - it refers to something very important, which is to the future and the social model that we intend to print in our society. That is what we need to talk about very seriously and we need to legislate through a specific draft legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u135	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u136	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Thank you, Madam President. Just a week ago Minister Báñez, in the pre-motional inquiry, pointed out in this House that the PP was the most feminist party in the history of Spain. He did so without blushing, saying that the People's Executive has recovered all the female employment destroyed by the crisis, reaching - she said and I remember - the 8.5 million women working in Spain. It is not the time to analyse this statement and not the time to dissect what labour reform has represented for workers in general and women in particular, but I do think it is the time to say without fear that austerity measures adopted under the pretext of the economic crisis have had a negative impact on all areas of the life of Spanish women. For the independent republicans it is extremely necessary to implement policies in favour of equality as we are today: to equalize paternity and maternity leave in an equal and non-transferable manner. The equalization of permits is essential for a number of things. First, to eliminate stereotypes; it is also to correct - as has already been said - discrimination in the labour market; it is also to achieve more equality, to reconcile but truly and, moreover, to provide children with the care they deserve from both parents. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, equalising these permits is essential for the market to stop penalising women once and for all. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what is being proposed here today, because it is an effective policy of equality, because this measure, this motion that we are debating today, goes far beyond the policies of foresight aimed at correcting or avoiding discrimination against women. [[Applauds]] It is not enough, it is essential to go far beyond the formal conception of equality. Today the legal systems still continue to be built on the male reference as subject, that is, the subject of rights, the citizen; it continues to be man and man, moreover, who responds to the hegemonic masculinity of patriarchy. [[Applauds]] Please note that public spaces and private spaces, as well as relations between them, continue to be organized according to this model, a model that places women in a devalued situation. Or, at best, in a fragile position and - why not say it - very fragile; the man is the provider, the woman is the caregiver. Madam Spain, doubling paternity leave from two to four weeks is not equal; it is an accelerated course to change three diapers, and point, and point. [[Applauds]] There are no more excuses, it is not worth talking about the current moment, blah, blah, blah, or that we are still half settled in the economic crisis. It is true that the crisis is and was serious, and it was at many levels, but at the same time the crisis too - let me tell you - brings some chance. It is, therefore, a very good time to analyze; it is also a good time to prioritize, to make careful decisions. Above all, we must not forget that investing and doing so in children has nothing to do with the economic moment a country is experiencing, since children must always be protected. I'm done. Providing children with adequate care and care on the part of their parents is a first-class investment to aspire to be a modern, advanced and egalitarian society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u138	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, I have a lot of experience lately with many of your initiatives that I have the feeling of living in a constant déjà vu. Recently, it happened to us with the repeal of section 324 of the Lecrim, the Criminal Prosecution Act. You presented an initiative almost as innovative, when it was already being dealt with by a law put forward by my group, the Citizens' Group. Today I have reviewed the Journal of Sessions and I have rested calm again, for it is not my mind that plays me wrong past. What you bring here also we have discussed, in addition, is part of our investiture agreement with the People's Party. They presented a non-law proposal that was discussed in October 2016 and, what has been the result of that non-law proposal? I don't think any, do I, ladies? They also put forward a bill that I do not know what has happened to her; I believe that the Government exercised its veto right and there she has remained, in the drawer, unable to deal with it. There are already several initiatives on equal parental leave with zero results. We've preferred to do things differently - call us weird, if you want to - but we like that initiatives don't stay there, on paper, that don't end up in the trash can. Our aim is always that the measures we propose go ahead. The citizens want us to solve their problems, not go waving flags from one side to another that do not end up nailing themselves anywhere. Since we prefer to be useful to citizens, do you know what we did? My parliamentary group agreed with the government group on a document that was called, The 150 Commitments to Improve Spain. Point 66 expressly states: To adopt the necessary measures with the aim of equalizing paternity leave with maternity leave in the coming years. Do you know what we did later so that this measure could be put into effect? We sit down and negotiate with the People's Party the General Budgets of the State. Several days and weeks making numbers with very specific commitments, including those relating to parental leave. It is a job that has been worth it, even if it seems to you to be a posture, because thanks to this we have managed since the parents of this country enjoy two more weeks of permission. [[Applauds]] Next year those two more weeks will become four, and that is useful politics, ladies and gentlemen, not posturn, I posture yours. [[Applauds]] We managed to start a compromise with the People's Party; a compromise, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not a secret that you had always been reluctant to initiatives like this. We got them committed and that commitment is already becoming a fact. For citizens that permits are equal it is a priority, we take it in our government program and demand that it be included in the pact signed with the Socialist Party in the previous legislature and in the one of investiture with the People's Party. Where were you, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos? Voting against it. [[Applauds]] What brings us here today? We are told to join a job to pass a law that equals paternity and maternity leave. But what is that job? Because nothing else is included in this motion. There is no need to adopt even a new law, with some of the amendments that we already have being amended will be sufficient because, in fact, this goes towards equality. What we are talking about here is compliance with article 14 of our Constitution. Our Constitution, yes, that which is sometimes valid for you and not for others. So far we can agree with you, but what do we do next? How do we put that mechanism in place until we get it done? We have already told you when the previous non-law proposal was introduced: at least set a timetable for compliance. What's really important is the calendar because if not, how are we going to match those permits? Don't you think it's okay for Citizens to have their paternity leave increased in two weeks? And that it will increase two weeks next year? Or is it that you pretend to do it is to equal them by taking away from the mothers what you already have? [[Rumors]] At least give us some clue. We want to increase rights for all, not take away what they already have to give to others. [[Applauds]] We have set a timetable that is now being fulfilled. If you don't feel right, say, at least, what you're trying to do, how those permits will be matched. We continue to do so and we see no timetable or proposals with specific funding. This is what we care about and many parents too: Citizens start an improvement in paternity leave to the People's Party. [[Shows a press clipping]] We are thirty-two Members and you are sixty-seven, tell me what you have achieved so far. The answer is nothing. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u139	I ask Mrs Fernández Castañón whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u140	Yes, President. We accept the Socialist Group's amendment, which seems to us to be very pertinent, not the other amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-27-CD170627.u141	Thank you very much. At the end of the debate, I would remind you that, as agreed in the Board of Spokesmen, the vote on all the matters discussed today will take place at the meeting on Thursday. The meeting was suspended until Thursday at 9 a.m. It was eight and forty-five minutes of the night.
