ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u1	The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Ángeles Isac García I ask María Torres Tejada if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u2	Yeah, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u3	Dona María Torres Tejada has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u4	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure, and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in the part relating to the questioning, in such a way that the urgent inquiry of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is on the agenda as item 28, will be discussed first, and finally the urgent inquiry of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví, which is on the agenda as item 26. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u5	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, the sitting with the point concerning the consideration of proposals for law; in particular, the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the reform of the Law of 18 June 1870, on rules for the exercise of the grace of pardon. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon. A reform of the Pardon Act, 1870, is brought to the consideration of this House. Its content concerns five articles of the said Act, with a transitional provision and another final provision. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I will explain the specific points which are being altered. First, do not grant pardons, neither total nor partial, for two types of offences: offences committed by an authority in the exercise of its public function or office, or by virtue of it, for the purpose of obtaining an economic benefit for itself or for a third party, and crimes related to gender-based violence. It is a manifestation and expression of what we say so many times of zero tolerance for corruption and gender-based violence. Preventing these convicted persons from being pardoned is a manifestation of that total rejection that inspires such behavior. I will be honest with you, my parliamentary group does not know - I hope so - whether we are going to avoid crimes, but we are sure that general prevention will work and, in this case, it will be a manifestation of sovereignty, as every law is, and sending a clear message that the sentences and their rulings in these crimes will be carried out inexorably. Secondly, the legal amendment, under penalty of nullity, has to refer to some mentions. First, to the penalty of pardon; second, to the offence committed; third, to the state of execution; fourth, to the title of charge; fifth, to the origin of the request for such pardon and, what is the Gordian knot, to the motivation which, in the opinion of the Government, deserves its justification and which must appear in the Official Gazette of the State. There is a third package relating to what affects the amendment. This legal amendment requires that, in order for a total pardon to be granted, the court or the sentencing judge must have the favourable opinion, indicating that there are grounds for justice, fairness, public utility or due social reintegration of the convicted person who so advises. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief, but allow me some considerations. I know that the institute of pardon creates for many a kind of contradiction, a first rejection and another of absolute necessity. Indeed, because it was an institution originally linked to the theocratic and absolutist conceptions of power, it was the subject of a closed criticism from the Illustration; a criticism joined by the Correctionalist School and the Positivista School. Thus, for example, the Marquis of Beccaria, in his Treaty on Crimes and Penalties, or Kant himself. Today we can say that this rejection still remains. That said, we advance their enormous need; necessity yes, although of exceptional use. It is said of the almost immemorial existence of grace, that forgiveness, clemency, is contemporary to crime, although it really is rather so to power itself, for clemency as much as punishment are manifestations of it. To speak of pardon is to speak of the history of humanity and of power. All - especially the older ones - remember when we were taught that of the book of Genesis: original sin and expulsion from earthly paradise. Adam and Eve were conspired not to eat the fruit of the forbidden tree - do not eat from it, do not touch it, on death penalty - but when they ate from the forbidden tree they were simply expelled from paradise. It was the first pardon or commutation of the sentence of history. But there are remote manifestations in the sacred books of India, in the prerogatives of the kings of Israel, of ancient Egypt. From Greece comes the term amnesty, regulated in the so-called law of oblivion, that Trasíbulo had the Athenians voted, once the thirty tyrants were expelled. Also in Rome, both in that of the kings and in the republican, there were forms of exercise of the supreme right of grace which, established the Empire, with the support of the Senate, was becoming more absolute and more complete and residing in the person of the emperor. During the Middle Ages the sovereign and, by extension, the feudal lords and the municipalities jointly administered the power to punish and the privilege to forgive. They judged and pardoned without guarantees; they pardoned free will. No standard subjected or regulated such powers. These faculties were progressively concentrated on kings, so that in the period of absolute monarchies and divine law this doctrine was developed and applied entirely. The first reflections of the right of grace in Spanish positive law date back to the 13th century with the Fuero Juzgo. With the Royal Fury, promulgated in 1254 by Alfonso X the Wise, the king prides himself on legislative power and becomes a creative source of law, although it must be remembered that the Royal Fury never became a Spanish law proper. In The Seven Parties clemency appears as a competition not only of the monarch, but also of the nobles and lords, as they were all co-owners of the state's jus puniendi. Moving forward in this historical zum, we will say that the new compilation includes important provisions on pardons, appearing in them clemency as a royal faculty in its expression of royal pardons and pardons, but it is in the absolutist state that grace reaches its greatest consideration as to the manifestation of such a system of power. The Baron of Montesquieu in The Spirit of Laws regards the right of grace as the most beautiful tribute of sovereignty. For his part, Bodin, in his work The six books of the Republic, among the rights reserved for sovereignty, points out that it is undoubtedly that of granting grace to the condemned. Constitutionalism came and with it the limits to absolute powers. Just a few strokes: the Bayona Statute of 1808; how about, the Constitution of Cadiz of 1812, which established as the principal power to attribute to the king the power to pardon the criminals, but, here is the important thing, according to the laws, so that it appears for the first time in coherence with the liberal sign of the text, the need to submit to the law in the exercise of grace. The Constitutions of 1837 and 1856 prohibit general pardons. For its part, the Royal Decree of 7 December 1866, where the Minister of Grace constitutes the first provision of the nineteenth century that offers a systematic regulation of the limits to the power to pardon. That decree would be in force until the adoption of the 1870 Act, and its limits on the exercise of the grace of general pardon and amnesty reappeared in the 1869 Constitution. It is in this constitutional period that we adopt the law that we intend to reform today, the Law of 18 June 1870, which establishes rules for the exercise of the grace of pardon. It is a legislative text that, like so many of that year, was born with the vocation of being provisional and whose validity extends to the present day, with the timid and only exception of the suppression of all pardons, except for the cases of the death penalty, during the period of five months, implanted in the Law of 1873, and transformed only by that of the content of April 22, 1938 and in Law 1/1988. The Constitution of 1876 reproduced the general lines already mentioned. The Second Republic will give a new turn to the regulation of grace, among other things because it attributes the general power to grant particular pardons for the first time in the history of constitutionalism to an organ of the judiciary, specifically to the Supreme Court, extending this power, exceptionally, to the President of the Republic. Franchise was attributed to the head of State in an exclusive and exclusive manner. And with this, and with slight modifications, we arrived at the 1978 Constitution. The exercise of the prerogative of grace is reassigned to the monarch, in accordance with the laws. General pardons are expressly prohibited. Any reference to amnesty is omitted. The President and other members of the Government are excluded from those who may benefit from grace. And the prerogative of grace in matters subject to regulation through popular legislative initiative is expressly excluded. So we can conclude, ladies and gentlemen, that clemency institutes are remnants of the absolute power remaining in the constitutional state, but they are necessary in their exceptionality. Thus, it fulfills several purposes. They are instruments of correction of certain legal precepts. In other cases, pardon is also used as a response to a change in a jurisprudence, since it is not possible to review judgements in such cases. Sometimes, judges and courts, when they consider the correct application of a law to be excessive, seek pardon. Forgive me for this passage, but it seemed to me opportune to bring history up to date in order not to make good that phrase of Hegel that the governments never learned anything from history; from that and that grace always accompanies us, and by the way to dispel that tension of suppression of the institution, based on the rationalistic illusion that the omniscient legislator, guided only by reason, could instruct and enlighten the judge enough to avoid any need for further consideration of the case. Today we all know - and then I will come back to it - that this is not the case. But we also know of its exceptionality and that the time has come to veto its possibility in those cases that generate real revulsion in our citizenship. Our constitutional text, via 62 (i), grants the king the right of grace, in accordance with the law, and in its article 102.3, prevents, as I have said, such grace from reaching the President of the Government and the members of the Government. But nothing prevents the legal extension of the assumptions where grace does not reach, and I want to point out that corruption and gender-based violence... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u7	One second, Mr. Campo. Ladies and gentlemen, we have hours ahead of plenary. We've been in plenary for ten minutes. I pray silently. It is almost impossible to hear the speaker. Go ahead, Mr. Campo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to point out that corruption and gender-based violence call for shouts to be excluded from such a measure. This is what my parliamentary group is now trying to achieve. As anticipated, the pardon continues to be exercised in accordance with the provisions of the 1870 Act. However, the adoption of Law 1/1988 of 14 January partially amended the Law of 1870. It has led to procedural changes, flexibility and speeding up the procedure, but the real significance of that reform and where, in my opinion, many of the problems we are currently experiencing are that the need for motivation of the actual concession decree has been removed. I therefore introduce the second of the points of innovation that this legal amendment is intended to make. The 1988 Law amended article 30, and where it said'reasoned decree and agreed upon in the Council of Ministers' was changed only by the expression'real decree'; suppression of the motivation with which - wrote Requejo Pagés - it ended with almost one hundred and twenty years of motivated pardons and turned - and in it we follow - to the ways proper to the times of real gain. The elimination of the motivation of the royal decrees granting grace undoubtedly invites a more liberal exercise - and I use it as bold or unbridled - and, if possible, use it by the Government. This led to a setback as to the exceptionality that grace should be and reduces to the extreme the political responsibility that is assumed through the concession, because the citizen, through the publication in the BOE, will know that a particular person has been granted an pardon, but will not fully know what the reasons for justice, equity or public utility established by the law have been. On the other hand, some authors argue that it is useless to demand the motivation of the royal decrees without the provision of control mechanisms. My group understands that a certain requirement of motivation needs to be returned, which could at least already give rise to even formal control over its existence, which would put a brake on arbitrariness. If today we review any page where the royal decrees of pardon are collected, we will see that after citing the case, the court, the person and the penalty appear - because they appear - reasons for justice and equity, but we are not told what reasons for justice or equity are competing in the particular case. Therefore, it is necessary to distinguish the motivation from the constitutional text in Article 120, third point, on the motivation of judgments. It is not a question of explaining to the higher body, no, we do not discuss the graceful nature of the act, what we discuss is that we have to explain to the citizenry that, as citizens, we have the right to know, understand and understand what reasons for justice or equity are given in a certain person who has received the punishment of the courts so that the penalty may not be met or partially commuted. I insist, it is necessary to recognize the graceful character of the pardon. However, this is not an obstacle to explaining to citizens the reasons for a particular pardon. I insist, we do not talk about that constitutional character of the motivation of sentences, here we are talking about making more citizens, we are talking about the right to understand that we have citizens. In this regard, this opportunity should be used for citizens to compare the ex gratia use by the Government as a model of good practice in the field of justice. It must go back to the motivation of the royal concession decree, even by reference to the fulfilment of the legal budgets established for pardon, which is explained to the citizen what is meant by reasons of justice or equity. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to amend that old law. Firstly, to guarantee and correct gaps, inadequacies, anachronisms, inconcretions, contradictions, generalities and indeterminateness. Secondly, for the institution of pardon to be used for constitutionally legitimate purposes, preventing the executive power from invading jurisdiction that corresponds to the judiciary or its governing bodies or from violating the principles of legal certainty and separation of powers. Thirdly, the institution must be reaffirmed as an exceptional measure. The grounds for granting must be restrictive and the law's indeterminateness, by not specifying the factual assumptions, must be saved in a concrete and detailed justification, rejecting, despite its generic legitimation, its gradual conversion into final instance. Very briefly. In the already pointed one seeks that the total grace is circumscribed...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u9	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u10	One second, Madam President. It did not stop me the time when I asked the Members for silence, I ask you, please, one minute, thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u11	One second, Mr. Campo. The Presidency counted the second, which was thirty-four, and you have been here for over a minute. I remind you that I'm the one who controls the times. You can finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Thirty seconds. In this line, we seek to ensure that grace is circumscribed, and we demand that total pardon can only be real if it has the opinion of the court that condemned him on behalf of society. It is not a return to the jurisdictional way, but a way to confront the sentences handed down in the king's name with the pardon exercised by the monarch. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. On 22 December 1849 Dostoyevski was placed in front of the firing squad to serve the death sentence to which he had been sentenced. At the last minute, almost the shots rang, the pardon came. Otherwise we would not have read Crime and Punishment, The Player or the Karamazov brothers. Let us demand a new legal regulation and an adjusted, understandable and reasonable exercise of the right of grace. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. It is proposed that consideration be given to a reform of the Law on Rules for the Exercise of Grace of Pardon, an initiative on which the Socialist Group has been persisting in recent years. In fact, a substantial part of the explanatory statement and the reforms proposed to the article are similar or equal to those presented in the 10th Legislature, which was when the Socialist Group entered anti-indulgence fervor with five proposals for legislation in plenary and the Commission, one of which was subsequently withdrawn. It is noteworthy that before November 20, 2011, the date on which Mr Rajoy won his first elections, there were no precedents for the frenzy following the modification of this institution, which is the exercise of the grace of pardon, which leads us to think that in the days of the socialist governments the law served as such, but when he began to rule Mr Rajoy the rules had to be changed. In these we are today, in an exercise of opportunism on an issue in which there are even political pacts signed through investiture. There has been some change with respect to previous reform proposals. It is significant to incorporate the rejection of the pardon in which the sentence is for a crime related to gender violence, which can be shared, of course, or not, because with this socialist proposal, as it is written, it would probably not have been possible to apply in 2015 to the well-known case of the mother of Seville, an ill-treated woman, condemned for facing her abuser. There is also criticism of the granting of pardons by the Council of Ministers, but the irrefutable fact is that last year the Government granted a total of twenty-seven pardons, the lowest figure in the twenty-first century, far from the two hundred and forty-five granted in 2011 or the five hundred and forty-three granted in 2007 by the governments then chaired by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero. Finally, over the years, there are judgments and decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court that justify the study and analysis of possible reforms of the application of pardon. It would have been desirable for this path towards new adaptations to have been driven by a joint and consensual initiative of the parliamentary groups - it would probably have been massively shared - but the Socialist Group has preferred the photocopying effect to be the fastest and to hang the medal. The old Law of Rules for the Exercise of Grace of Pardon and its Reformation deserved something better. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u15	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to start my intervention by making a bet: I bet whatever it is that the next pardoned one will surely be Miguel Ángel Ordóñez, former governor of the Banco de España. It'll take a little while or it'll take a long time, but you'll see how I win the bet. This is a controversial issue. Since the beginning of democracy there have been eighteen thousand pardons and there have been controversial cases. It would be useful to recall and refresh the memory of the controversial cases that have been pardoned: Alfonso Armada, accused by the 23-F; three convicted by the Filesa case of illegal financing; Barrionuevo and Vera for the kidnapping of Second Marey; banker Alfredo Sáenz, who first pardons him a government that was already in office and then makes the law adrede to him so that he can remain a banker; two convicted of the Treball case; two officers of the Yak-42 case; police for torture and ill-treatment; Kamikaze drivers; convicted for urban offences or political corruption, let us remember Mr. Gil and Gil; or people convicted for prevarication such as Judge Gómez de Liaño. He has even been pardoned with unfavourable reports from the court and some President of the Government has been heard justified after a pardon saying: it was understood that it was reasonable to grant it and point. That person probably forgave someone's debt. It was understood that it was reasonable. Who understood? Why did you get it? The Government of office understood. There were no reasons or the reasons are unrecognizable. This is the crux of the matter, the pardons are discretionary, they do not need to be reasoned, and when reason is given there are reasons as pilgrims as those of a minister of justice of the PP, who on one day pardoned 1,333 convicted and whose reasons were: for the twenty-fifth anniversary of the coronation of Juan Carlos, for the jubilee year or for the millennium change; reasons, as we will all understand, absolutely'very reasonable'. It is urgent - we insist - a legal reform that marks limits and emits objective guidelines when it comes to committing a pardon. We will therefore vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u17	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to Mrs Ciuró i Buldó, for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the Democratic Party we will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, because it is true that it is a law that is suitable for reforms, in fact it is 1870 and it has been made very few amendments, the last in 1988 by the Socialist Group and that it was in the line of typexing the motivation of the pardon. We welcome this change in approach and therefore welcome the initiative. The institution of pardon comes in itself clothed with arbitrariness, which is precisely censored by the public authorities. We are therefore in favour of regulating this arbitrariness for the sake of transparency. In fact, the pardon implies the interference of the Executive in the decisions of the judiciary, so it is appropriate that this interference of guarantees be provided. For this it is necessary to make reforms and not to put patches. The figure of pardon exists in the legal systems of our environment, so there is a comparative right to be inspired by a possible reform of this issue. We are in favour of including motivation, as announced by the proposer. Also include who requests it and why. We are told by the bill to explicitly exclude a numerus claususus from crimes, corruption and gender-based violence. Why only these? Why not another type of crime that has created special social alarm, for example? And why not include an assessment of the government's motivation, which, as the proponent says, has to inform citizens of why this pardon is adopted? What better way for the third power of the State to pass through this legislative chamber in a sort of specific commission of pardon so as to be able to know the reasons for such adoption by the competent authority? We will therefore vote yes to modify the pardon to give transparency to this figure, which has been the subject of much controversy, over which it has overacted and overmanipulated for the benefit of political speeches from both sides, and in which it is appropriate to put serenity and seriousness in order to be able to deal with it. Therefore, yes to this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u20	Thank you very much, President. We are proposed to take into consideration a reform of the rules for the exercise of the grace of pardon. The institution of pardon is reflected in all contemporary constitutions and also in Spain in all constitutions from 1812 until the present one of 1978. The latter has not abolished it but retains its exceptional nature unlimited by prohibiting general pardons or the President of the Government and its members in the circumstances of article 102.3, or by requiring a regulatory law, justifying its existence as a measure or remedy of exception in extraordinary cases in order to respond to the correction needs of the Administration of Justice, establish criminal policy provisions or ensure social coexistence or public utility. That is to say, other considerations of general interest such as - and cases have been given - ensuring the collaboration of confidants of criminal organizations, smoothing conflicts in international relations and even resolving serious public problems that may affect national coexistence. All these reasons, however, must be preached in each specific case in order to determine the consequences of the pardon under the aspect of equity, public utility or reintegration. The motivation is circumscribed to each specific case - that of the defendant to whom it refers - and to see how that specific case benefits the pardon in those other values or interests. For this reason, pardon is not a right of the sentenced person, although it is also not an act of content of free purpose and even less an arbitrary act lacking any justification. However, the type of motivation required for the granting of a pardon is in no way similar to that required of any other administrative act. The pardon, as the power of the king requiring the endorsement of the Government, is a power of the Government and it is manifested not in typical administrative acts but in a prerogative whose essential core and esendi ratio is its discretionary character and therefore is never a due act. For this reason, the Supreme Court says that the right of grace has features of atypicality; being not the exercise of a typical administrative power is not even a discretionary administrative act. Pardon is also not a trust authority whose legitimate purpose is to satisfy the general interest legally determined. That is why the figure of the deviation of power cannot be used as a control technique nor can it be imposed on the Government. The motivation, therefore, cannot be in the technical sense required by the Administrative Procedure Act for any administrative act and in turn justify judicial control. Justification cannot be extended to the essential core of grace, to the decision of pardon, but to control in its case the arbitrariness of the decision. And the regulated elements or procedures for their adoption may also be judicially monitored. This comes out because the reform proposes to introduce the requirement of motivation. We believe that this motivation should be linked to the effect of the prohibition of arbitrariness, understood not as the faults of motivation in which it may have occurred, nor as the discrepancy on the assessment of the substantive requirements that the Government has made, but rather to verify that the legal reasons justifying the granting of a pardon have been achieved, but only from the logical coherence and legal rationality, in the light of the facts contained in the file, but without going to court for the free subjective estimation of the reasons that the Government makes. This scope of the free subjective estimation of the reasons by the Government is considered to be wrong when the full remission of the sentence is conditional on the favourable report that the sentencing court makes on the degree of realization that the particular pardon is to imply in fairness or other reasons of public utility. This report becomes binding on the Government, as the Government cannot grant it if that report is negative. The exercise of the right of grace is an inappropriate act and its content - essentially political - is criminal policy. That is why a Government in office cannot grant pardons, and that is why the Government is not obliged to grant them or any court to impose them. Its essential core is the discretion, without prejudice - as I have already pointed out - to the judiciary being able to ensure that the Government's subjection to the law is effective, since that empowerment to the Government entails a certain derogation from the principle of generality of the criminal law and also a derogation from the exclusivity of jurisdiction, but by limiting judicial control to the regulated elements, i.e. without reaching the assessment of the substantive requirements of each pardon or, in other words, the assessment of its consequences on fairness or public utility, except in the case of decisions without any logical consistency with the facts of the case, but without entering into the subjective estimation of the reasons, I repeat. The judicial work is carried out when the accused and the governmental work are punished when the rights of those who have been justly deprived are returned to the sentenced and can only be controlled in their formal aspects or when there is arbitrariness when they are totally devoid of any justification from the logical legal irrationality, that is, when the acts of the Government are irrationally legal, and this happens when there is no logical process, as the Supreme Court points out, between the facts of the case and the granting of the pardon, when it is a construction in the void, a logical irrationality or a clear inconsistency or discordance of the chosen decision, based on the aforementioned legal reasons with the reality embodied in the case. In this sense, the legal logic in the decision-making process is an external parameter of judicial control but without entering into subjective valuations; it is not objective legal criteria that the Government manages, but a subjective estimation based on meta-legal criteria such as equity or satisfy the public interest. This has also been understood by the Constitutional Court itself when it says that such decisions are not substantially verifiable by the judicial bodies, including itself, the Constitutional Court. Therefore, what falls outside the scope of objective legality must also fall outside the judicial power of control, but also beyond the power to condition the Government with binding reports on subjective assessments that the sentencing court cannot do. We will therefore propose the deletion of Article 11. However, the fact that motivation is only at the service of judicial control, procedural elements and arbitrariness does not mean that motivation is not at the service of democratic explanations, especially in a social and democratic State governed by law such as that proclaimed in article 1.1 of the Constitution. That is why we will also raise the amendment to the additional provision of the Pardon Act, introduced in 2015 in an amendment to the Criminal Code, because it does not seem to us sufficient in a democratic state in the 21st century that the Government informs this House only every six months of the pardons granted in that period of time. We believe that the role of the Government should be further restricted, and at least that the granting of certain pardons requires prior parliamentary debate. Finally, we also do not share the prohibitions proposed since an approximation of the prohibition of inequality in the law, which is also prohibited in article 14 of the Constitution and has been handed down by the Constitutional Court on numerous occasions. The question we ask ourselves is: Why are there convicted perpetrators of certain offences to which the granting of pardon does not give effect to the principle of equity or the public interest? Why can the pardon of certain convicts not meet these meta-legal goals and in some other crimes? We understand that there is no rationality in such discrimination and no motivation, and we believe that they are certainly unconstitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u21	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the figure of the pardon and the law that regulates it, which is why I am going ahead that the Republicans and the Republicans Catalan and Catalans demand and demand the pardon for comrade Bodalo, a victim of a political trial or, what is the same, a victim of the judicialization of politics. [[Shows a poster with a photo, next to which is read: Freedom for Andrés Bódalo.-Applause]] Activist, trade unionist, sentenced to years in prison for defending the interests of the workers... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u23	Mr. Tardà. We are on the floor. Everything is welcome, but use the word, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u24	He said that he was the victim of an offensive by the power in a context in which the north was in the midst of curtailing democratic freedoms, civil rights. Remember the parallel between the trial and the sentence and the law of the law gag. Nothing's random. I would also like to remind you that the plenary of the Jódar City Council, unanimously, with the votes of the Socialist Group, also requested pardon. Having said that - important - I must add that we will vote in favour of the proposal for a law presented by the Socialist Group today. In fact, this same debate, in relation to a proposal for an identical law, was already held in May 2015. Then, the absolute majority of the People's Party prevented this initiative from being approved. Today we hope that, to the extent that the correlation of forces in this Parliament has changed, it will be victorious. Then we vote in favour and now we will do it again. However, we must also say that this initiative is short and is also late. But we agree with her and we will vote in favour because pardon cannot be granted to persons who have committed corruption offences, i.e. persons convicted of committing crimes in public office. Nor do we agree - then we agree with the Socialist Party - with opacity. We demand transparency, which is why it cannot be pardoned without a resolution that mentions the crime committed, the origin of the crime, and even an extensive reasoning for the reasons that promote pardon by the Government. In addition, we share the demand for proper reintegration and its publication in the BOE in an extensive manner, i.e. with the full content of the resolution. Moreover, we believe that the Government should inform the Congressional Justice Commission in advance of its willingness to grant pardons. Do you imagine Mr. Ruiz-Gallardon informing the kamikaze driver about the pardon, the one who caused the death of a young man, or when he pardoned the civil guard who, in the exercise of his duties, mocked a sexual assault? Do you imagine Mr Ruiz-Gallardón before the Committee on Justice informing - I say just informing - what his will was? Or do you imagine Minister Caamaño informing the Permanent Chamber, just when his government was in office, of the will to pardon the deputy councillor of the Bank of Santander who had been convicted of false accusation and denunciation against a group of entrepreneurs, the same person who then retired with about 90 million compensation? So, if this parliamentary initiative were to be adopted and its processing started, we will amend it. We want, I repeat, that the Government has to inform the Committee on Justice about the pardons it has scheduled. It is clear that the institution of the right of grace is exceptional - it is - because it can act in the face of a judgment of the judicial process when it is evident that there has been a lack of equity, justice or reintegration of the convicted person. Then, in view of the fact that it is exceptional, I think you will agree with me that in a truly fair judicial system there would be no room for pardon. But the reality is that today the Spanish judicial system is far from excellence, because the Spanish judicial system suffers from funding for free justice. It also imposes fees to appeal in the second instance, which means that there are sectors of society that have to take unfair sentences without the economic possibility of appealing them. In short, a justice for the rich and a justice for the poor. In fact, it is a justice conditioned by the economic capacity, different from the citizens themselves. All this without mentioning the collapse in the courts for lack of investment, which causes eternal procedures. They will remember that maximum of delayed justice, denied justice. All this, for not reminding them of how even the possibility of recourse to the Constitutional Court through an amparo appeal has been restricted. He was ashamed that the solution had been to restrict access to the Constitutional Court rather than to provide it with more means. Of course, if it were resources against the Generalitat of Catalonia, there would be no shortage of economic means. In short, we will vote in favour of this proposal for a law of the Socialist Group because we do not want pardons for chorizos, we do not want pardons for the corrupt and we also demand transparency. So stay with our proposal that it be the government, through its minister, who informs the Committee on Justice and that that pitiful spectacle can never happen again when Rodriguez Zapatero was asked why he had pardoned the advisor of the Banco de Santander, and Zapatero, who was already in the last, I think a little embarrassed, replied to the press - I quote textually -: It was understood that it was reasonable and point. Well, thanks to this proposal from the Socialist Group, I believe that this may never happen again. It is good that socialists amend or self-amend themselves. Finally, remember: pardon for Andrés Bódalo, pardon for Andrés Bódalo. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u25	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with the amendment of the Law of 1870 of rules for the exercise of the grace of pardon; a nineteenth-century law - which bears this title - which was reformed very lightly in 1988. As far as I can see from the speeches made so far in the rostrum, there will be a broad majority who will vote in favour of the consideration and begin the processing of this bill. What I don't know is if we're going to share the ultimate motivations for asking for this change. Of course, we do not share the motivations with Mr Tardà, but I would like to start by telling him that there are no political judgments in Spain. That hero whom you have exalted here and for whom you have requested that grace of pardon was condemned for throwing punches and kicks at another public office. For us, that should not be part of political activity. I do not know if for you kicks and kicks are political tools; for us, at all. [[Applauds]] They are crimes of common calling that any citizen can commit. The last reason why we are going to vote in favour of this consideration is precisely for defending the principle of equality before the law, that any citizen, whether a public office or not, has committed a crime of corruption or not, has the right to receive the same treatment. What we cannot accept is that by the way of pardon power ends up acquitting itself. That's what we're talking about, Mr. Tardà. [[Applauds]] And you're asking for unfair treatment, unequal treatment; you're asking for your political hero who threw punches and kicks to be applied the grace of pardon for ideological and political affinity, something that radically breaks with what we understand to be the application of the principle of equality. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, welcome to this reform. As you know, this was part of the agreement for a reformist and progress government that you reached with us for the failed investiture of Don Pedro Sánchez. Paragraph 54 was the amendment of the Pardon Act to prohibit the granting of any offence related to corruption. It is also part of the 150 measures that we have agreed with the People's Party, with that diction: to end pardons for political corruption. In both cases, both with you and with you, what we were doing was bringing you to a land where you haven't lived in the last forty years. [[Noting the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] If anything has happened in recent years, it is that this matter of pardons for political corruption has been what you have used with fruition. They have used it since 2000 - I will only refer to the last twentieth century and this twenty-first century - with the famous - it has already been mentioned here - pardon of the millennium, in which a socialist government pardoned 1,328 people. Among them were persons who had some connection with the party, such as those convicted by Filesa, for the illegal financing of the Socialist Party; also convicted of unlawful association, documentary falsity or crimes against public finances. That characteristic of transversality has been applied very arduously among you. There is also the famous case in which a former president of an autonomous community was pardoned, in this case of the People's Party, Mr Hormaechea, condemned for misappropriation of public revenues and who was pardoned not once, but twice. Reference should also be made to pardons of political colleagues, such as the pardon to the socialist activist Dolores Mateos, a worker of the Andalusian employment service and also convicted of embezzlement, in 2011. In this, too, there is a combination of interests with the nationalist parties, let us call them that. Here is the case of Josep María Servitje, a senior official of the governments of Jordi Pujol, sentenced to four and a half years in prison for diverting public money to related companies in the so-called "Treball" case. In 2012 he was pardoned by the government of Mariano Rajoy and ended up commuting his sentence for a fine of 3,600 euros, ladies and gentlemen. All this transversal generosity among you over all these years has served to inoculate that virus of disaffection, that delegitimization of our democratic system, that feeling among ordinary citizens, among the citizens who are listening to us, that public offices have a last shield precisely in that figure of the right of grace, in that pardon that their political concilitons can ultimately use to rid them of the rigors of prison. That is the reason, ladies and gentlemen, because we could discuss here today the figure of pardon in our modern criminal law on whether there are fundamental reasons, reasons for justice or procedural or other reasons, but, ladies and gentlemen, for us it is to restore the principle of equality, to restore credibility in the institutions and that these absolutely reprehensible behaviors never again find the shield of grace - I repeat - of political comrades. It has also been said here, and it is true, that one of the great flaws of our Law of Pardon is that absolute lack of motivation of pardon decrees. Motivation is not necessary and so it has happened that in recent years there have been absolutely inexplicable pardons and above all that they did not need to be explained, and this is what cannot continue for longer. Surely in the process of this law we will proceed to some reform because we believe that there are some issues to improve. For example, in Article 3, you do not refer to criminal types, you refer to behaviours but not to criminal types. It seems to us that in a law like this it is necessary to be precise and perhaps the best is that we do not describe behaviors but describe criminal types that are excluded from the possibility of being pardoned. In that case we will be much more precise, we will avoid subsequent conflicts and it will surely happen that according to the amendment you propose, crimes that we believe cannot be pardoned in any case as terrorist crimes can be. You do not regard them as those who cannot be the object of pardon. We believe that there must be an express mention of such crimes. We shall therefore vote in favour. We do not renounce to improve in the parliamentary process this law, and I also say to you that it does not seem enough to us; therefore, next week there will be an opportunity to discuss in depth in this House the consideration of an initiative of law of our parliamentary group, an integral law against corruption in which we touch these aspects relating to the suppression of pardons for political corruption, but also another type of measures because we believe that we must act comprehensively, quickly and urgently in order to tackle the cancer of corruption and ultimately to tackle the delegitimization of our democratic system, which is what these repeated conducts over so long, supported by this law of the pardon that we are going to begin to reform today, have inoculated in our democratic system. In short, ladies and gentlemen, let us re-establish the principle of equality, that the corrupt have from the beginning the feeling that they will not find a place to hide even thanks to friendship with their party comrades or by some other kind of pressure on the executive power and that in the end we will be able to restore that credibility and that sense of the citizens that the public authorities, their representatives, are at their service and not to use them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u27	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u28	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. We are here discussing a law no less than the 19th century, of 1870, which, from our point of view, would deserve a much more comprehensive and inclusive approach than is proposed right now. We have examined the two major trends in the use of pardon that currently exist as a right of grace without going into historical disquisitions. There is one that comes from the feeling of injustice of the people when they give procedures of what the Romans called summa lex, summa iniuria, which translated is that the rigorous exercise of the law generates a feeling of injustice many times. This is felt and sometimes claimed, for example, in the case of Andrés Bódalo - and there I have to thank my colleague Cañamero for all that force he puts on him - and it is claimed in another series of matters that have been given in time and that he could mention profusely, such as the keeping of you, who ended up in prison by selling cedes, or those drug addicts, who were rehabilitated and suddenly dropped sentences of three years or more in prison, or those on whom a sentence was handed down after fifteen years, when they had already given up their lives or those people who had long sentences and who could not avoid a rigorous and excessive execution of the sentence in any other way. [[Applausos.-Mr.Cañamero Valle shows a banner with the following text: Freedom for Andrés Bódalo]] That is very important in times of punitive populism and of special rigour in this regard. Another use of pardon has also been made and statistics are simply to be seen. The greatest incidence of pardons has been in matters of misappropriation, in matters of prevarication, in matters related to political corruption - they have already been mentioned here, so I will not bore you with it - which are absolutely scandalous cases. Therefore, it is not the pardon itself, but the use that has been made of it during these times of ferocious bipartisanship that, in some way, has generated a question of citizen scandal and that, in addition, has demotivated judges and prosecutors, which often costs so much to pursue the crimes of political corruption as to make these situations happen afterwards, on many occasions very quickly and very blatantly. We must therefore avoid these uses and reform is necessary. You are proposing a reform and I am already telling you that we are going to vote in favour of it, but that is the end of the good news, because that reform does not satisfy us in any way and we are going to justify it in a few words. If we read the explanatory statement of the proposal you are presenting, you propose to limit the cases of corruption, but I suppose someone has realized - and you as a legal expert who can become and that is what you know - that in the Criminal Code there is no heading of corruption, so we should delimit, and above all, when we go to the articulated text of the law, you refer to cases of pure and simple corruption of public officials and also for profit. Let's get down to practice. The for profit in the economic transaction is the most difficult thing to prove many times and so on many occasions we stay in types like the prevarication, etc., which are instrumental types of all the bargain that is behind. What's the matter, that we're exclusively going to be able to pardon all these people and the people we catch for embezzlement or something like that, right? Moreover, if the criterion was that they were public officials and, therefore, that the Executive should not pardon itself, what happened to all those public officials who committed other crimes, such as unnecessary rigour of torture, which also had a very high statistical prevalence? Aren't we going to pardon them or are we going to pardon them? Or are we going to pardon only part of it or not? We do not understand what the criterion is, which we consider to be excessively open, restrictive and which leads us to absolutely nothing. Not to mention other types of people who, for example, are convicted of urban or environmental crimes and who are really the spearhead of other types of business where money is, although on many occasions it cannot be proved. We therefore find it absolutely demagogic to talk about corruption in an explanatory statement, to restrict it later in the articles and also to undefined it in such a way that it will create a much bigger problem than you intend to solve with a headline at this time. This would be the first approach we should do, but it is almost the same when you talk about gender-based violence. Okay, fine, the headline is there and we're not going to argue about this, but are we going to leave out another kind of crime like prostitution or trafficking? Are we going to leave the rape out or not, and with what criteria? Because the criterion of proportionality of penalty certainly goes away. I have not heard here what the real motivation is for us to commit some crimes, not to commit others, and also to apply an obvious inequality when the criteria for granting pardon obviously do not have to be the type of crime, and then I will refer to this. Finally, in the proposal you also talk about motivation. We are pleased with the purpose of the amendment, because it was the government of Felipe González and the group that supported him in 1988 that removed the requirement of motivation for pardons. What we lack is their own motivation, that is, the act of contrition, which the priests would say, at that time, why at that time it was worth and what were the reasons and why at this time it is no longer worth, when you are in opposition and think you can have a sufficient majority? Obviously, we are in favour of that motivation that would remove situations such as those already described here by comrade Baldoví when he said that he has motivated pardons, such as that of Gomez de Liaño, camouflaging them with insumious and talking about how it is retirement year, forward. Of course this has generated conflicts with the judiciary because in the end it is an interference of the executive power in the judiciary that makes no sense. Therefore, none of these three issues that you have raised seem to us to be reasonable or to be taken into account. What do we understand should there be? Firstly, a reform of the comprehensive law, which would be based on a number of points which I should like to summarise schematically so that it can be taken into account when we have to discuss this issue. Firstly, the criterion should not be the type of crime, but rather the need for punishment, general prevention and special prevention. Translated, let's see if with that pardon we avoid a penalty that at that time is not necessary to fulfill the purposes of criminal law, for people to understand. There is a very clear example, if already a drug addict who has been rehabilitated, who committed a petty crime - that is to say, passing a paper - for which five years of conviction have fallen, a conviction falls within ten or fifteen years for successive remedies, etc., has family and is going to come in and fulfill, we will have to evaluate it. As we will also have to assess the purposes of general prevention, that is, whether with pardon what we are doing is generating a sense of impunity for society, as has happened, for example, with famous pardons to bankers, etc., which has also been mentioned here and which do not even enter into that prohibition of pardon that you would want to do. Finally, special prevention, i.e., to what extent a person's reinsertion requirements make it worth it or not at that time to grant him or her a pardon. All this, of course, has to be motivated, and it has to be motivated - and we will already discuss this - by a body that is at last independent of the Executive, possibly a mixed judicial and administrative body, whose decisions are also subject to judicial control on the basis of that motivation. We also need to adopt a regulation setting reasonable time limits, because it is not possible to delay the granting of the pardon and nobody here knows whether it is going to be granted, when it is going to be granted and within what time limit. We understand that, with all this, it could be more feasible for such pardons to be outside party interference and to serve the purposes that the pardon may have, that it is to correct the excessive rigour of a law that neither the legislator nor the application of the law has been able to foresee at the time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u29	Thank you very much. Mr García-Tizón López has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as all those who have spoken before have said, this debate is aimed at a proposal for a law tabled on 1 August by the Socialist Group, which is very similar to that tabled on 18 December 2013 and which was rejected by the plenary of the House. For this reason, it would perhaps be useful for this group to reproduce the statement it made in that debate in order to take it into consideration, which took place on 12 May 2015. However, something has changed in this proposal, little, and in the composition of the House, quite, which obliges this group to add some other additional consideration to those already made on that other occasion. On the extension of the exception of pardon, in the case of offences committed by authority in the exercise of its function, public office or by taking advantage of it in order to obtain an economic benefit for itself or a third party, and convictions for crimes related to gender-based violence, we again say here what we already pointed out in the last legislature. We accept that there is no numerus clausus in this matter, because article 62 (i) of the Constitution refers the exercise of royal power of grace to what is provided by law, but it is not so clear that this proposal gives full satisfaction to a possible social demand for what is required for the general and special prevention of crimes. Should only crimes of corruption or gender-based violence, as the proposing group understands, be exempted from the grace of pardon? In making this limitation of assumptions, does the Socialist Group consider, sensu contrario, that there is a right of pardon in the crimes of terrorism, organized crime, aggression, sexual trafficking, pederasty or violence against minors, for example? Don't these crimes have a social rejection at least as strong as corruption and gender-based violence? From another point of view, is there a social alarm about the policy on pardon being carried out by the Government in dealing with these crimes and justifying this proposal? Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, no. In 2016, 0.72% of the applications submitted were granted, even less so than in 2015, which was 1.27%, very similar to that of 2014, which was 1.05%, data far removed, by the way, from the years 2009, 7.85, and 2010, 6.41, of the socialist governments. But it is also that 99 per cent of the pardons granted by the People's Party Government have had the favourable opinion of the sentencing court and the prosecutor's office, or both; and even more, in the last years 2014, 2015 and 2016 all pardon applications within the criminal categories referred to in this bill have been rejected. On the incorporation of this new reason for the social reintegration of the convicted person, the statement of reasons for this proposal justifies the amendment, recognizing that the pardon is and must be an exceptional remedy to give full or partial enforcement of the criminal responsibility imposed by law by the courts and tribunals, and that it is only democratically enforceable when the grounds of justice, equity or utility, already required by the 1870 Act, are present in its grant, but also its impact on the social reintegration of the convicted person in order to fulfil the purpose which the Constitution confers on all punishments. To this end, it understands this group that, while recognizing the possibility of pardon in cases such as the one mentioned, its incorporation into the text of articles 11 and 30 adds nothing new to the legal provisions of the current Law on pardon, and can be understood redundant with the other circumstances traditionally collected. This social reintegration can be perfectly subsumed in the cases of equity, justice or public utility covered by the current law, and not even the invocation for the purpose that article 25.2 of the Constitution attributes to any penalty adds anything new or different to those circumstances. Another change is the requirement for the motivation of the actual concession decrees. Pardon, indeed, by its very nature, is a political, non-administrative act, fully accepted by the Constitution, and never affects the offence or the guilt of the offender, and can only limit in certain cases the application of a certain penalty. For this reason, their exercise can perfectly become an instrument of certain political orientation. The limited scope that the courts can exercise - which cannot affect the essential core of grace, because the reasons for justice, equity and public utility must always be recognizable in the formal elements - at present refers only to the regulated aspects of the procedure without requiring or controlling that favourable or unfavourable decisions must be justified in the manner required by article 35 of the Law on Common Administrative Procedure for Administrative Acts. Notwithstanding all that, this group is prepared to assess - as it already announced in the position-setting of the previous proposal for a law - the political opportunity to deepen this motivation and, therefore, in the control of concession agreements, including in the actual decrees some kind of generic reference according to a catalogue of more specific pre-established grounds than those references to reasons of justice, fairness or public utility, current and similar to those which the Government is taking into account in its current policy of granting pardons. This would correct the inconvenient reform carried out by the Socialist Government by the Act of 14 January 1988, which, with the excuse of mere terminology adaptation, abolished the requirement of this motivation. In summary, the People's Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour of this new bill, but it is already announcing a package of amendments in line with the position held in this debate and the incorporation into the text of the proposal of the circumstances that the Government is de facto considering in granting or denying pardons, such as in cases of granting of pardons, favourable reports by the sentencing body and the prosecutor's office, the social reintegration of the convicted person, the age of the facts or the sentence, the absence of other criminal records, dependence of third parties, especially of minors who may be left in need, payment of civil responsibilities, personal circumstances of particular gravity, for example; or in cases of denial, the seriousness of the crime, unfavourable reports by the sentencing body and the prosecutor's office, opposition of the victim in crimes against the integrity of persons or multi-recidence. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party accepts the procedure and is going to vote in favour of this bill, but recognizing that it is an incomplete law, that it is a weak law and that it requires more profound amendments than those proposed by the Socialist Group. In the course of the amendments we will have the opportunity to carry out these comments. Let us therefore hope that, with the cooperation of the other groups, we will be able to give this initiative greater treatment, scope and consequence than the Socialist Group originally envisaged. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u31	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States may, in common, in Marea, for the implementation of urgent measures in the field of local planning. [[File number 122/000038]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u32	We move on to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, for the implementation of urgent measures in the field of local regime. [[Rumors]] Mrs Honorato Chulián has the floor in the first place for the presentation of the initiative. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a law that has sparked a continued rejection outside and within this House it has been the Law of rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, the commonly called Montoro Law; numerous entities, social movements, up to 3,000 municipalities, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and even the Constitutional Court, which has twice declared itself unconstitutional part of this law. The reasons that led at the time to demand that this law should not be dealt with remain in full force. We need to repeal this law, we need to repeal the Montoro Law, because it is a deeply anti-municipal law and contrary to our plurinational reality, and it goes in the opposite direction to most of the reforms that are being promoted from Europe in accordance with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which also prescribes strengthening local governments. The Montoro Law needs to be repealed because it has favored the privatization of public services by causing a hellish chain of perverse effects. The conditions for the municipalities to provide public services on their own have been tightened and the quality of the provision of these services has also been reduced, forcing the dissolution of public enterprises providing essential services. What do we propose? We are actually proposing something modest, but effective. We propose to break the emergency window of municipalism. We are aware that repealing this law does not mean returning to an ideal situation and we are also aware that this is just something urgent and transitory, that the real task on the table is to address a real local reform, a new municipalist legislation. What do we propose to repeal? Firstly, we propose to put an end to the imposition of a competitive ceiling. It is necessary to return to a competitive soil that allows the municipalities to have the capacity to meet the needs of their neighbours and neighbors and we therefore address an amendment to articles 25, 27 and 28 of the Basic Law. Only the new article 28 would justify this initiative, this amendment, because the Montoro Act has banned and curtailed the possibility of acting with complementary powers by each of the municipalities in this country. In addition, it is necessary to eliminate the obligation for the Ministry of Finance to intervene in accordance with article 25 in order to enable the municipalities themselves to develop their own competences. Secondly, it is necessary to put an end to the quasi-forceful privatization imposed by the Montoro Law. Section 85.2 of the Basic Law provides for a whole yincan sadistic for those municipalities that want to approach the services in their own way. Did you know that the Constitutional Court, sure you know it, in repeated reports has shown how outsourcing and privatization are costing too much for the provision of public services? Between 22 and 71 per cent of the country's citizens have these outsourcing costs. We are living throughout Europe an era of remunerating public services, which is also being addressed by saving and sanitizing public accounts. Town halls such as Berlin, Hamburg, London, Atlanta, Indianapolis, Paris and even thirty-eight French cities have affected this re-municipalization of services such as water. In Paris, in particular, there was a reduction of 8 per cent in invoices and a profit of up to 35 million that was reinvested in the provision of the service itself. The third aspect we address is a sort of legal vacuum that exists and that is nothing other than the definition of what can be considered essential public services for the purposes of the Budget Act in order to be able, in some way, to reconfigure the troop replacement rate and thus to cover those essential positions in the provision of services for each of the municipalities. We are not talking about borrowing more, we are not talking about spending more, but about the municipalities with budget availability being able to choose the path by which they provide their services, when, moreover, outsourcing is not the most effective or the cheapest way we have set before example. Finally, we have addressed in an additional provision an amendment to Article 3 of Royal Decree-Law 8/2014 to allow the adjustment plans to be cancelled once all the requirements have been met and not having to be permanently tied to a fixed photo of 2013. What do we keep in the law? What we maintain are two groups of articles, one related to the limitations on public and contingent personnel expenditure and the other relating to national staff. It seems to us that both aspects do require some rationalization. We are aware that the repeal of the Montoro Law is only one of the legs that must necessarily be accompanied by a second leg that would be the modification, the repeal of those articles of the Organic Law of Budgetary Stability that also stifle the functioning of our local authorities and our municipalities. We are also aware that we cannot leave the task of dealing with new legislation on the local regime for the future, and that is why we mandate in this text, in an additional provision also, the need to submit a new project involving the local regime within eight months. But we have begun to break at least, as we say, the emergency window to repeal the most urgent and damaging aspects of this Montoro Law. For the air to enter, because you have to roll the wheels; because often the excellent is enemy of the good, as the popular chorus says. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no accident that our group is promoting this initiative, because its soul is eminently municipalist. Our candidatures were born in the streets and squares from citizen movements and formations rooted in neighboring struggles. Today we are in governments in cities such as Barcelona, Madrid, Ferrol or Cadiz, which express a transformative and radically democratic municipalism. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not expect anything from Mr Montoro or the PP other than privatizations and attacks on autonomy, but it seems to us that the rest of the Members of this House should take care of this municipalism and take care of the defence of local autonomy. Thus, in recent months, different motions in municipalities such as Seville, Córdoba, La Higuera, Cazorla, Móstoles, and so on up to one hundred municipalities, groups of different political signs - even from the People's Party and Socialist Party, passing through Citizens - have supported the need to process this bill. Therefore, we ask you not to let the municipalism in the Strait of the country created by Montoro and Rajoy be wrecked. It is necessary not to turn your back on the city halls. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, with your heart in hand, one day like today I ask you if you are going to declare your love for the People's Party again. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Let us hope that they do not do so and that we can improve this law together, that we do not let this opportunity pass and that they do not call a parliamentary majority that can put an end to the suffering of many people. I only ask that we be brave and that today we end up moving on to a dark chapter in the history of municipalism in our country. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u34	Also for the presentation of the initiative, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u35	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, President. The democratic quality of a country is also measured by its degree of decentralization and by the strength of its local governments. Can you imagine what would have happened in this country, how we would have faced the economic and social crisis with the rickets of the municipalities thirty or forty years ago? It would have been a real social catastrophe. But, moreover, today municipalism is fundamental to meet social demands, demands of citizen participation very diverse, more personalized and community, linked to everyday life. To say that we are a municipalist parliamentary group in our case is not rhetorical, it is a deep conviction, because we have received the impulse of municipalities of change such as Barcelona, Madrid, Santiago, Cádiz or Ferrol, among other municipalities, that express a radically democratic, transformative and innovative municipalism. He told them that municipalism is a measure of power of the local governments, of democratic quality of a country. Well, the democratic quality of this country suffered a sharp setback - one more - when this Montoro Law was passed, when the LRSAL was approved. Its objective was not at all to adapt municipalism to the challenges of the twenty-first century, it was not to improve the benefits to citizens or public services, it was not to strengthen local governments; the fundamental objective of its law is the strict application of cuts and austerity policies, its objective is privatization. This is contrary to the demand for citizenship, which calls for more transparency, more participation, more and better social and proximity services. This Montoro Act is a further instrument that is born out of the reform of article 35 of the Constitution and the Budget Stability Act. The aim of the Act is for municipalities to have the least political power possible without being able to develop their competences in social services, education, health inspection, primary care or employment promotion policies. They wanted to turn the municipalities into mere administrative entities, into pure managers without real political power. Behind this, what is it? The right never misses a crisis to drive counter-reforms and the LRSAL is a clear blow against municipalism and therefore also against a quality democracy. This law, its law, is a fundamental element of the PP project, slimming down the social state that largely manages autonomous communities and municipalities and strengthening the power of the central state. His response to the crisis - which is job insecurity and social cuts - needed re-centralisation and authoritarianism. The LRSAL is not that it is an unconstitutional law but that it is a deconstituent law, as deconstituent are all the laws that the parliamentary group with absolute majority approved, because they break the social and territorial pacts. I am referring to labour reforms, the Budget Stability Act, the Mordaza Act or the Lomce Act. Moreover, this is a law contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. He said that it is an authoritarian law, authoritarian in the approach because the LRSAL establishes the control of the State administration over local authorities, violates local autonomy and autonomous competences. Its approval was also authoritative, with all parliamentary groups against the exception of the People's Group; with more than 3,000 municipalities across the State against, which raised a conflict of defence of local autonomy before the Constitutional Court. 90% of Catalonia's municipalities, with Barcelona at their head, rejected the LRSAL. It was not a reform for and with the municipalities but a reform against local authorities and their competences. It is a law that arises from mistrust towards the municipalities, perhaps - you will know it better - for the mismanagement of the People's Party and the debts they left in Town Halls such as Madrid or Valencia. Why is it now necessary and do we raise this law of urgent measures in the area of local government? Because LRSAL is an antisocial law, which goes against local autonomy and represents a democratic involution. Among the objectives of the law was to avoid duplication. In fact, what they wanted was to put an end to local skills, eliminating proximity services. They intend to prevent a fundamental principle of any municipality: that nothing that is lived in each municipality is alien to local politics. And this was done by putting a competitive roof on the city halls. But who is going to stop a mayor from worrying and giving a political response to health care, unemployment, youth emancipation or macho violence, when they are clear demands of the citizenry? The Constitutional Court has declared some of these provisions unconstitutional for violating autonomous powers. Its law ignores the powers, for example, that under local law the Generalitat of Catalonia has, the powers established by the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, like other statutes of new generation, that in certain aspects of local law have exclusive competence to develop their own policies and that with this law are violated. The Montoro Law did not rationalize, what it did was the widespread transfer of powers from the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants to the deputies. The paradox is that the law questioned, delegitimized local autonomy - democratically legitimized by citizens directly - and legitimized that of the provincial parliaments, which have indirect legitimization, unlike what is done throughout Europe, which is to strengthen local governments and limit intermediate areas. What there was was a lot of budgetary control, which is what you always put above the provision of public services, when the municipalities, in the whole of the Spanish state's debt, represent only 3.3%. I remind you that only the City Council of Madrid accounts for 13.6% of the municipal debt. The aim was to discipline the weaker level of public administrations to improve the government's deficit margin and to stay well with Brussels and, yes, to promote private initiative. Many obstacles to public initiative, to the creation of public services; doors open to outsourcing to market areas such as water, energy or waste management. A municipal law is needed, of course it is. Repealing this Montoro Law is just a first step. There is a need for a municipal law that guarantees competence and resources to the municipalities. That is why, for all these reasons, we call for your vote in favour of that consideration. Especially we ask the PSOE, the Socialist Party, in line with its own program, which literally says - and differently at another point, that it is to approve a new Local Regime Bases Act -: repeal the LRSAL, Local Regime Act, carried out by the PP.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u36	Your Honor, Mr. Vendrell, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u37	I'm done. Wasn't it about legislating, even governing from Congress? Now we have, by adopting this initiative, an opportunity for that. Do it on behalf of your councillors, your mayors; please your mayors, your councillors and your constituents and let us disgust the People's Party today. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u38	Thank you. The joint parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe, has the floor in the first place in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to everyone. The proposer group raises a matter of the maximum scope, no more or less than to act against the counter-reform that was initiated in relation to local corporations with the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Authorities, adopted in the past legislature. New Canarias criticized this law so much that it joined the unconstitutionality appeal that many groups of the House formulated at the time, for two reasons: because there was a serious attack on local autonomy and, secondly, because there was an absolutely irrational and unacceptable financial strangulation when it is precisely the local corporations that really have to be stuck to the citizens at the toughest times. However, an initiative of this magnitude, precisely the scale of this initiative - I say it with all due respect - would justify the need to have worked in the line of agreeing things with the actors involved. I belong to New Canarias and I have to tell you that you are very sorry to see in a proposal like this that there are no island cabildos. You know that there are no seats in the Canary Islands, there are island seats, which have more powers than seats, and we have some unique features that we need to recognize. To the same extent we believe that the objective cannot be to return to the above. The aim must necessarily be to adapt to the reality and needs of local corporations at this time in terms of their skills and funding guarantees. For that reason, Nueva Canarias, being in agreement on the substance of the matter - which must be brought to an end with this law, with that counter-reform which the People's Party formulated at the time - we also believe that this is not really the instrument, we believe that this is an insufficient instrument and for that reason, being in agreement on the substance, we are going to abstain; it is necessary to improve the text and, therefore, we announce our abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u41	Thank you, Madam President. No one comes here to give lessons or to discover the world. The Canarian nationalists and this Member are among the few remaining in this House who voted against section 135 and the amendments to the Stability Act and the Rationalization and Sustainability Act. One thing is to defend municipalism, as the current president of the Canary Islands did and led within the Spanish Federation of Municipalities - Coalition Canaria signed, together with other political forces, when you were not yet here, the remedy of unconstitutionality - and another thing is what you propose, and above all the explanatory statement, the municipal philosophy. We certainly do not agree with its municipal model in terms of outsourcing, in terms of employment, in terms of housing, and we are going to follow the line of telling the PP that a city council - and it is told by a person who was mayor eleven years - can stop asphalting the streets at times of crisis, even lighting up, but what it will never do is close day care centers, close day care centers of older people or not give social emergency aid, as was intended at some point with those laws. We must work on another line, with consensus, and not come here to say: either with me or they are against the municipalities. We, the Socialist Party, the Canary Coalition and the rest of the political forces, have many mayors who have mobilized, fought and solved the crisis and who have won with what their citizens want, which is the closeness of an administration, the closest and which has to have the competences. All political forces will continue to fight in this with consensus, with agreements, as we did when we appealed to the Constitutional Court. There's the road. I am going to abstain because I do not share your explanatory statement, but if the bill comes out I will certainly work for the model that the mayors want and not the one that we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u42	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Martínez Oblanca, also by the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is intended to amend a law that transferred to local corporations the principle of budgetary stability introduced in 2011 in the Spanish Constitution. I would like to make it clear that I voted against the reform of Article 135, which gives me some moral authority to say this afternoon that, since the mechanisms for controlling public finances, including local entities, were necessary, there was no need to reform the Constitution. It would have been enough to re-edit the laws that distinguished us before Europe at the beginning of this century because they were pioneers, serious and rigorous and that set in motion a culture of stability for public finances, as well as growing economically and creating millions of jobs in Spain. As at the time, today we need such a style of governance, but if we accept the proposal of Podemos we would be faced with a major setback in the dual objective of the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration, which is nothing other than essential quality services and healthy, sustained and sustainable local finances. The law can be improved, but it should not be crushed, as the authors of this parliamentary initiative claim. The proposal is, moreover, unfair with the much that has been done in favour of municipalism and uniquely with the process that promoted the minister of public administrations, Mariano Rajoy, within the government of José María Aznar, which consisted of a consensus set of ninety and two legislative and administrative measures that promoted a wide decentralization of power that left in the competitive and exclusive sphere of the autonomous communities many competences and a large majority in favour of the local authorities. It is opportune to recall, and I do so with great pleasure, that that local pact was approved when it was at the head of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces one of the great figures of Spanish politics, the mayor of Valencia Rita Barberá. The qualification of municipal competences to avoid duplication with the autonomous communities or with the General Administration of the State responds to the premise of an Administration, a competence. In this case the path goes through the autonomous transfer to the municipalities of administrative, financial and political resources and the elimination of a dangerous habit of which in Asturias we have a great practitioner, the president of the Principality, Javier Fernández, who is distinguished by distributing sectarian aids according to the political color or the sympathy towards one local corporation or another. Therefore, legislative changes, but not in the way that Podemos poses. What is definitely needed is a change of political conduct in favour of the municipalities. We shall vote against, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u44	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u45	Thank you. Let's get everybody out of here. Our vote will be in favour of considering the proposal to avoid and mitigate the consequences of the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Government, a source of so much hardship for the municipalities. It is a law with a marked re-centralization character, whose repeal we have also requested from Euskal Herria Bildu through an initiative to be a law that involves a frontal attack on the competences and autonomy of the local entities. In turn, this law is responsible for the establishment of the principle of sustainability above the principle of subsidiarity, poses a serious risk to smaller municipalities and poses a real risk of centralization and privatization of the majority of competences and services. Faced with this, we believe that it is essential to focus on the need for municipalities to have the option of managing public policies of primary need, especially those aimed at responding to the needs of the most disadvantaged. It is important to have competence for this and to have the corresponding sources of funding, a principle that has been established in the Law on Local Institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community, recently adopted. Therefore, it seems important to us to recover and improve the articles that the Law on Rationalization had repealed, whose objective should be to give content to the autonomy of the municipalities. We believe that through this initiative we must deepen the direction, principles and philosophy of the European Charter of Local Self-Government already mentioned here today. We can also note that the law adopted in the Basque Autonomous Community provides more advanced elements which, we understand, cannot be ignored in relation to the empowerment of municipalities in terms of competence and funding, in order to deepen this and that the law, once reformed, is not a source of limitation for the optimal development of which it has already been approved in the Basque Autonomous Community. That is why, as I said, we will support this proposal as an option to improve the conditions of municipalities throughout the State in view of the serious consequences that the Rationalization Act is having. Euskal Herria Bildu thus shows his willingness to deepen the improvements to be made in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u46	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u47	Thank you very much, President. Let us go on to say that our group is going to vote in favour of the consideration, although we obviously do not fully share the proposed text, but in any case a door is opened. In an electoral campaign, in Catalonia, sponsored by the Associació de Municipis de Catalunya and the Federació de Municipis de Catalunya, the two municipalist entities that cover one hundred percent of the municipalities, most of the political formations in Catalonia, except the People's Party and Citizens, we signed a commitment to repeal this law. Therefore, although we do not share - and I say this to you clearly - some aspects not only of the explanatory statement but also of the articulated text, the essential thing now is not to share 100 per cent or the explanatory statement or the articulated text, the essential thing is to initiate the legislative procedure to repeal a law that was practically not supported by any parliamentary group, beyond the People's Party, in the previous parliamentary term. This is a law on which almost 100 per cent of the municipalities of Catalonia have ruled against, which has been brought to the Constitutional Court and we all, ladies and gentlemen, are committed to repealing it. We - I repeat - do not agree with the wording presented, but we understand that at the moment the most important thing is to give a clear message to the mayors, to the councillors, to the fellow citizens of each of our municipalities that, in relation to this law - that we have told them that it was a terrible law, that we were harming mayors, councillors and neighbors - the parliamentary procedure begins for their repeal. We are therefore going to support this initiative and I hope that it will have taken place. And if you don't have it, all of these people who we kindly ask for consensus tomorrow will have to sit at a table and generate consensus for a parliamentary initiative that is identical or similar to the current one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u49	Pick it up on. The economic, political and institutional crisis has also reached the local world and more specifically the municipal one. An example of this is Law 27/2013, on rationalization and sustainability of local government. A part of the doctrine came to say that the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability constituted, from the basic state legislation, a reconstruction of the State, mainly at the local level, because indirectly it intended to modify the system of municipal and provincial competences and also to affect the autonomous ones, a question partially resolved by the declaration of unconstitutionality of the first, second and third transitional provisions. The Act has been the subject of numerous remedies of unconstitutionality and a conflict in defence of local autonomy and, therefore, the communities have been issuing rules that have led to a rejection of the applicability of the Rationalization and Sustainability Act. This law also introduced exception clauses, rooted above all in historical rights, which have opened the way for the deepening of Basque foral and municipal autonomy and which have also led to the adoption of the Basque Municipal Law. In the Constitution, there is no express competence for municipalities, such as Law 7/1985, which regulates the bases of local governance, and the consolidated text of the Local Finances Act, which is currently amended by the Law on Sustainability and Rationalization, together with the case law and state and autonomous laws, which form at each moment the substantive scope of local autonomy and also establish this division of local competence. At the regulatory level, the competence content of local autonomy is determined by a system of own sources, which consists of the conjunction of the basic state legislation, the sectoral legislation, the internal articulation of each autonomous community and the supra-state legislation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. In the Basque area, this system of sources acquires complexity with regard to the municipal sphere of common system and this is derived from the peculiarities of the Basque inter-institutional framework, as reflected in the first additional provision of the 1978 Constitution, the Gernika Statute of Autonomy and the Historical Territories Act and, today, the Basque Local Regime Act. The peculiarities of the source system in the Basque Country with regard to the municipalities and provinces of common system derive, as some authors point out, from three issues. First of all, the special nature of the historical territories, which, with an express recognition of constitutional jurisprudence, are different in nature from the province of the common system, since they are autonomous territorial organizations with a qualified institutional and political position vis-à-vis the local provincial entities and provided with their outsourced bodies, therefore, in the Basque Country, the outsourced rules are used as an instrument which determines, together with the legislation emanating from the Basque Parliament, the competence of the Basque municipalities. The economic concert regulates tax and financial relations between the State and the Basque Country, which makes the outlaws and general councils of the historical territories in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country become major players in economic and financial matters. The particularities of the jurisdictional distribution themselves operate in the status of autonomy with respect to other autonomous communities - article 10.4 states as exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi the local regime -, without prejudice to the consequence of article 149.1a18 of the Constitution and the competences derived from historical rights, by virtue of the institutional guarantee of the Basque foral regime recognized in the first additional provision of the Spanish Constitution. The basic local law of the State has recognized the extraneous singularity both since the Local Law of Basis of Regime Act and since the Local Finance Act 1988. The Rationalization and Sustainability Act also does so when the principle of differentiation is incorporated into its territorial application. In this sense, it contains explicit and decisive clauses of exception for the Basque Country, which constitute a legal situation distinct from the rest of state municipalism. The Law on Rationalization and Sustainability contains three exception clauses, the first two - Articles 1.34 and 2.4 of the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability - imply the amendment of the second additional provision of the Law on Local Regime Basis as well as the amendment of the eighth additional provision of the Law on Local Finance, respectively, and entail an adaptation to the pre-existing outside exceptions to the new regulation and requirements arising from the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability. The third exception clause for the Basque Country contained in the first additional provision of the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability creates new exceptions to the thread of the new limits and controls on municipalities established by the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability itself. It is in this legal scenario described when the Basque municipal bill, the result of the political transaction, was adopted in 2014 and the source system in which it is framed makes explicit reference to Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability and to the drafting resulting from the amendment of the Law on bases of local regime, operated by the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability. These rules have contributed in an essential way to the formation of the local regime in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and make it possible to update historical rights in local matters. It is therefore clear that the reality of the system of sources of local law in Euskadi addresses the uniqueness of the institutional, competitive, economic-financial and budgetary dimension, and in particular the financial protection of municipalities, exercised by outlaws. But it seems that you have not taken this reality into account and eliminate our foral specificity as set out in Law 27/2003, Article 1.34, which implies the elimination of the second additional provision of the Local Regime Basis Act, which speaks of the Basque Foral Regime. Therefore, the text of its proposed law removes the uniqueness of the local regime of Euskadi. In 2013 it was achieved with a lot of effort to preserve the foral reserve and therefore to have at the local level a differentiated system from the rest of the state, which has also led us to the approval of the Municipal Law in the year 2016, a law that represents an advance for Basque municipalism because it strengthens the role of the municipality in the framework of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u50	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u51	... So that now you come and want to take away from a pen our specificity and singularity. Where are our guarantees? Or do they want a new reconstruction of the local level? Certainly don't count on us for that. We want our outside regime to be respected because it allows for specificities and peculiarities that are a sine qua non condition for us and allow a harmonious situation with the rest of the institutions. That is why we will vote against your initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u52	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u53	Very late, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration is a law - and I do not find anything - which attacks local autonomy, which at the same time cuts down democracy and obviously also takes away the power of citizens. A law that obviates autonomous powers in local governments and in the territorial administration and does not solve the problem of financing local authorities. I must say, then, that we reject a law that was passed without any consensus, with an absolute majority, and a law that has caused a level of conflict that has never been seen. It was rejected by the Parliament of Catalonia and the Government of the Generalitat, which have appealed against it, and also by virtually all the opposition; even the People's Party achieved something that seemed impossible: to bring to agreement about 3,000 municipalities throughout the State and 90% of the Catalan municipalities to reject the known LRSAL and to present a conflict in defense of local autonomy. We therefore need urgent measures in the area of local governance. The most urgent, without doubt, is to repeal the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Government. We need to address the real problem of the financial sustainability of local authorities, which is nothing other than their financing system. The Spanish governments, both of the People's Party and of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, have never intended to guarantee the financial sufficiency and autonomy of local authorities. After more than thirty years of the recovery of democratic municipalities, the Spanish state has been unable - I repeat: unable - to set up an adequate financing system. We must therefore tackle the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not find anything if I say that the emergency of the crisis began to be noticed notably in the local public budgets; in fact, before the end of the first decade of the 21st century, although it was precisely in the years 2011 and 2012 when it became more pronounced. The causes are already well known: a decrease in revenues linked to the construction sector, accompanied subsequently by a decrease in State tax participation, a decrease in current subsidies and the absolute and total closure of the financial markets, clearly the result of the financial collapse, a sector, it is worth remembering, which we rescued among all. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, combined with the high number of competences, the so-called improper competences, without the corresponding funding, which in some cases could account for more than 30% of the current expenditure. Thus, in 2011 we planted ourselves, after the results of the crisis for the municipalities, with: increase of public deficit, lack of liquidity and, at the same time, generalization of the lateness. And it is, in the face of this miserable spectacle, when you arrive, the high commanders of the blue bench, with their numerous army and captained by the infallible Montoro invent Law 27/2013, the so-called Law of Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Administration, a law that is born - I repeat - of the most absolute distrust towards the local governments. In fact, far from solving the structural problem of financing local authorities, the crisis was precisely the excuse to place the General Administration of the State in a position of guardianship of the local administration in the centre, which has meant a major setback over the services provided to date by local corporations or, in other words, the services provided by the administration closest to the citizen. Far from what has been done to date, we must value local autonomy once and for all. Not everything is worth in the name of the crisis. The crisis was, and remains, an opportunity to rationalize local government. As I said, our municipalities, all of them, need structural reforms, a new system of financing that is fairer, more balanced with the services provided by local corporations. The concept of rationalizing, as has been seen, is not the same for all mortals; in fact, the popular, with the excuse of rationalizing public administrations, what they did directly was to stone many of the public services provided by these administrations. The municipalist world is, ladies and gentlemen, an identity universe of certain public services, so it has close and close to the social needs of the citizens, and also because it is the one who knows the community that, by the will of the people, has been entrusted to it to manage. LRSAL increased democratic guarantees, guarantees of representation and, at the same time, of citizen participation, reducing the social services provided in towns and cities in a satisfactory manner and, consequently, undermining the competence of the autonomous communities against such local autonomy. The reform of the People's Party has fundamentally led us to further degrade the democratic quality of our society by turning the municipalities into mere managers, draining them of political content and, consequently, further alienating the power of the citizens. In addition, it has intensified the processes of privatization of resources and public enterprises, using the criterion of sufficiency or financial sustainability, significantly reducing the network of public resources and, therefore, the network of resources for the majority of the population. Everything, moreover, obviating the Catalan singularity. The Generalitat de Catalunya has, ladies and gentlemen - as far as we are not aware - exclusive powers in the area of territorial organization and local government. Local authorities are part of its institutional system, however, once again - I repeat - the Spanish State continues with its deeply homogenizing policy by imposing a homogeneous regulation on a territorial reality that is not, that is not homogeneous but heterogeneous. We will therefore vote in favour of taking into account the proposal for a law, but it is the Generalitat - I repeat too - that must regulate local authorities in Catalonia. We have our own model of local governments, we want to develop it and we have the competence to do so. This proposal for a law is a mistake of homogeneity, and we will therefore be tabling amendments. [[Rumors]] Although the Spanish model of local regime promoted by Podemos is much better, infinitely better - it doesn't cost much - than that of the People's Party, Catalonia is not going to renounce neither now nor ever its singularity. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Villegas Pérez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u55	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed taking into consideration the proposal for a law on urgent measures in the field of local law. Firstly, we believe that the debate is timely and that there could even be a coincidence, in the vast majority of groups, about the need for local world reform, for competition reform and for reform that also ensures financial stability. I would like to raise some surprise at the framework presented with this proposal. The initiative proposes to us the repeal of most of Law 27/2013, the LRSAL, although it maintains some articles. On the other hand, they also seek a very specific amendment to certain sections of the Local Regime Bases Act. They then touch on some of the important points, and finally, we go to the third additional provision, which is perhaps the one that frames all of this alleged reform, which gives the Government a nine-month mandate to undertake a thorough reform of the local rule bases and bring us a proposal with a redesign of powers and funding of local entities. [[The Rumors Continue]] Are we really now bringing the discussion of this law to make good reform in nine months' time? Do we really bring now, on such an important issue as this, a law that is dedicated only to repealing the LRSAL and then, in nine months' time, to really work on the real necessary reform needed by the local world in Spain? We don't think that's the way it should work. Why don't we start doing the good reform? Why don't we get to work directly, forget about the derogatory obsession and focus on the reform of the local world, which is what this country needs? [[Applauds]] As I said, we are surprised by the framework or working formula proposed by this initiative, and certainly in disagreement with it. I therefore announce that our vote will be against the consideration of this bill. In any case, we share the diagnosis of the need for a reform of the local administration in Spain; we share the diagnosis that a redesign of the competencies is necessary, but that redesign must be based on a basic criterion, which is the criterion of effectiveness. Competencies are not better if they are in the municipalities by system, nor are they better if they are in the central government by system, nor are they better if they are in the autonomous administration by system, although it seems that some always defend one thing or the other. We need to analyse each competition and see which Administration is able to better meet the needs of citizens, because that is what the public administration is for, not to wage wars of local government against central government or central government against autonomous government, but to satisfy the needs of citizens. That is why it is good that the debate on this competition criterion should take place, but it must be done with this criterion of effectiveness and satisfaction of citizens' needs. Is there a need for a debate on the financing of local finances? Of course we do; we have to start discussing and we have to give a clear and sure system of joint funding for regional and local governments, allowing each of those powers that we have said before we have to divide with a criterion of effectiveness to be sufficiently funded. [[Rumors]] We are prepared to make proposals in every sense of this reform; in fact, we have proposals in that line in our electoral programmes and part of them are also covered by the agreement signed with the People's Party in the investiture pact or in the agreement signed in its day with the Socialist Party. As I say, we are prepared to put ourselves to work and to face this debate, to talk about ordination, the division of competences, but with the criterion of effectiveness to which we have referred, as well as to talk about avoiding duplication, one of the reasons... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u56	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Secondly, keep quiet, and I ask you very strongly. I don't think I have to repeat it more often. Ladies and gentlemen, here you are to listen to the speaker. I won't repeat it again this afternoon. I ask you, above all, that if you have to talk to your ladies and gentlemen, please leave the Chamber. This is not a place for bilateral or trilateral talks. This is a place for the speaker to speak and for the rest to listen. Go on, Mr. Villegas.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u57	Thank you, Madam President. We said that we have proposals on the sharing of powers, we have proposals on administrative simplification, which is not reflected in this proposal that we are discussing today. We believe that we should talk about this simplification of administrative levels, which we should talk about parliaments. Let us remember that 60 per cent of the resources in the parliaments are left to pay for the structure and only 40 are going to finance services. We want structures, administrative levels that allow 100 per cent of these resources to reach the municipalities to improve the services that citizens have. We are also willing to talk about how this local world is strengthened so that all municipalities and municipalities have autonomy and ability to move forward. We also believe that we should talk about the fight against corruption. Why not? It is not mentioned in the reform nor in the one carried out by the People's Party, but we all have experience and we have experienced what has happened with corruption in the local world and, therefore, we have to draw conclusions from what has happened and put solutions in place so that it does not happen again. One of the proposals you make in your bill is to recover and strengthen the urban planning skills of the municipalities. We should also discuss it and see if that is the best level to make decisions that involve so much benefit, that so close level. In short, we should talk about the fight against corruption and, of course, about that sufficient funding. We're willing to talk about all that. We have proposals - I insist - not a patch for nine months. Let's talk about that comprehensive reform of the local world and let's start talking now. There are some specific points in the explanatory statement that we could criticise and with which we disagree, but it is normal, and the proposer has said so in her speech. There seems to be a criminalization of public-private collaboration. It seems that we want to move on from one side, where this public-private partnership is privileged, to the other, where we want to criminalize and say that it always increases the costs of the service that is provided. Well, no. Consideration should be given to how each service is more effective, whether directly by the public administration or whether such public-private collaboration is more efficient and effective. I insist that from sectarianism we will do a weak favor to the citizens. Let us analyze how we are able to better manage resources and public money in each case, which is not that it is nobody's - as some said - but it is everyone's, and therefore we must take care of it more than ever. You are talking about recovering some skills - we have already talked about it - on the subject of urbanism. I insist that we need to have a global debate on which competence is best in the central state, which competences are most efficient in the autonomous communities and which competences are most efficient in the municipalities, but without a prioriism or sectarianism. On the other hand, there is the repeal, which is the most important part of this bill. We do not agree to repeal it by repealing it. The LRSAL had objectives that can be shared, one of them, avoid duplication, as we have said, with which we agree. Perhaps it has not been all the efficient it should be in that regard. Ensure the financial viability of the municipalities. We do not agree with how it has developed or with many of the precepts of the LRSAL, but it is clear that in these objectives that I have mentioned we do agree and, that we must continue to work to have stronger municipalities, with an economic independence that will also allow that political independence that is claimed. Therefore - and I conclude - according to the opening of the debate on the reform of the local administration, according to the need for a new model of division of competences, according to the need to finish and to give a new formula to local funding, but against the system proposed to us by the proposers to put a patch now for nine months to start working on the good law. Let's start working on the good law. We believe that if we leave dogmatisms and apriorisms aside there is room for consensus, there is room for agreement, there is room to improve the skills and funding of the local government. Let's get to it, let's get to work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u58	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Pradas Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. A couple of weeks ago I ended my intervention here in connection with a motion on the rule of spending of municipalities, saying that the road to municipalism is not such, but that municipalism is the way. Then I was quoting Gandhi. It may be a bit exaggerated to quote Gandhi on such a prosaic matter as the public administrations may be, but it is that the road to real and effective municipalism - at least as I understand it - is being so tortuous in this country that this kind of exaggeration fits. I really don't know what the municipalities in Spain have to do to have the recognition of the rest of the state administrations, because the recognition of Spanish society does have it, they have had it for a long time. No one has done more harm to municipalism than Mr Rajoy's government, unless I know of it. Look, I met Mr Aznar's government as mayor, but as Mr Rajoy's government, as Mr Montoro's government and Mr Beteta's government - I do not want to forget Mr Beteta - no one has done so much harm to the municipalities, no one has done so much harm to the smaller local corporations, no one has done so much harm to the parliaments or to the autonomous entities. The smaller the municipality, the more damage has been done to it with this reform that we are analysing today. So great has been the damage, Mrs Honorato and Mr Vendrell, that this proposal which you are presenting to us, no doubt well-intentioned, is insufficient, totally insufficient. That regardless of some technical issues on which I will enter a little later. The so-called Law on Rationalization or Badly-called Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of the Local Government is already assuming, after three years of operation, a very serious involution of the conception that had been reached on the local world in this country since the constitution of the municipalities, back in 1979. The new law of the PP government has meant the denial of this space that the municipalities had achieved. It is in many cases involving the dismantling of the service, privatizations, the strangulation of small municipalities and the suppression of jobs; ultimately, municipalities on probation, where basic services and neighbours have become somewhat secondary. And it is causing something more serious - if it is possible - that I will not tire of repeating: at the stage of the draft of this law they opened the false debate of the reduction of councillors and put the focus on the salary of the mayors, giving to the citizens that there was the reason for the evils that were suffering at that time as a result of the crisis. That is unfair and cruel for the municipalities and for the municipalities. The Socialists have led the struggle of municipalism against the reform of the People's Party since the zero minute and, therefore, we have proposed to repeal this law from the very moment it was passed by this Congress of Deputies. The autonomys governed by the Socialist Party have brought remedies against the law before the Constitutional Court and our municipalities are the majority - I would like to remind you - of the 3,000 who have raised this conflict of defence of local autonomy to which some of the speakers have referred. We have presented a multitude of initiatives in this House and in the Senate. We have tabled motions in all municipalities to go against this totally unfair rule. But the Socialists want to promote real local reform and we want to do so within a responsible, transparent and participatory process, in which all the actors involved can actively intervene from the beginning: parliamentary groups, the FEMP and, of course, all those municipal entities and experts who have something to say and contribute. That has been invoked here, but no one has been consulted. We understand that the new Local Government Act is to strengthen local self-government, ensure a stable financing system based on well-defined local authority competencies, and also demand the adoption of a new local tax law that provides stability, rigour and resources for local authority competencies in a coordinated manner with local government funding, clearly defining the participation of local governments in State taxes and in the taxes of the autonomous communities themselves. Now, by the way, very important work has been opened up in the Committee on Finance. This Commission and the agreements reached by this Commission are very important. The most striking of this bill, presented by the Confederal Group of United Podemos, is that it insists on a subordinate and supervised consideration of the Spanish municipalities. As an example, there is nothing to do with the explanatory statement of the proposed law which, in its first sentence, refers to the local world as local governments, thus eliminating the political relevance of the local world that socialists have always shown by calling them local governments. This could be an anecdote, but it is that this subordinate consideration is reflected in the articulated dangerously by saving from the repeal the regulation he made on the financial means of the municipalities, which are the ones that really enable the role in the local world and the role that the local world has to play. I am referring to the fact that in this proposal for a law Article 2 of the law is completely saved, that is, all the reform that was carried out in the Law on Local Finances and that it assumed at financial level the consideration of municipalism as a reality dependent and protected by the State - that is, by Mr Montoro - and I imagine that this will be a mistake. Or is it that the son doesn't go with the chestnuts as they say on our land, Mrs Honorato? You talk a lot about independence and yet maintain all the tools the ministry has put in place precisely to eliminate municipal autonomy. You save from the repeal the regulation that the law made of those entitled to whom this law constitutes little less than in commissioners and vigilantes of the Spanish municipalities. It is clear that the central Government will establish rules on procedures, implementation methodology and performance criteria, as well as on the status of the rights and duties of the controlling staff. They talk about controlling personnel or allow you to keep talking about controlling personnel, and you accept it. With regard to the articles that you propose to amend, what you are basically doing is returning to the 1985 Act, a law that was already attempted to change in the last term of office of the Socialist Government, because it was completely obsolete and did not respond to the present day of the municipalities of the twenty-first century. Let's go back thirty-two years and, therefore, we tell them that for that trip we don't need saddlebags. Lords of the United We can, what you pose to us we do not like anything and we want to go much further, we want to bet strongly on a local reform that our local corporations need and, above all, our neighbours and neighbours. Indeed, Your Honor, the local governments are not for more patches, especially for seven- or eight-month patches that will again create legal uncertainty. The Socialist Group is going to abstain in this vote to take account of this bill which may have very good intentions, but very little technique, and which I assure you is not in line with what the local world is demanding at this time. By the way, have you, who talk so much about participation, really consulted the mayors before registering this proposal? Because there are mayors of yours who have told me that they have not consulted at all, and I can tell you later what they are so that they do not consist in the Journal of Sessions. Do you really want your mayors and municipalities to continue to clean and maintain kindergartens and primary schools, when this is a competence of the autonomous communities? Have you asked the mayors whether they want to keep and clean the schools or would they rather do it as with the institutes and clean them up, in this case, the Andalusian Junta, the Valencian Community or the Catalan community? Are the mayors of municipalities of 4,000 or 5,000 inhabitants, such as Gilena or Pedrera, in which you govern, ready to provide, in any case, as provided for in Article 2, the service of firefighters, water purification, or recycling? These same mayors have delegated these powers to the commonwealths, and they themselves preside over them in some cases. First funding and then skills. That is the slogan that has emerged from the mistrust of the municipalities towards other administrations. In another matter, have they explained to the mayors of Navarre and Euskadi how the Foral Regime will remain if they delete article 1, paragraph 34, and the additional provisions? - Question in which I am not going to deepen because I am running out of time and Mrs Sagastizabal has perfectly explained it. Ladies and gentlemen, too many questions that answer an approach, with all my respect, run over, lacking ambition and lacking the necessary debate at the heart of municipalism. You can't fall into the same mistake as PP. To legislate on the local one should not turn their backs on the mayors and the councillors. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Socialists want this to be the legislature of municipalism; this was expressed by our mayors last Saturday in a majority and we are going to give that battle; there is no doubt about it. On the way to that struggle we will certainly meet and agree, but today we can only abstain in this proposal which, being generous, could only qualify as clearly improved. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u60	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Matarí Sáez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2011 the government of Mariano Rajoy found a local government in a dramatic and virtually bankrupt situation - by the way, Mr Prada, after eight years of management of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero -. The economic crisis, an outdated legal framework, funding problems and many, many wrong decisions had made local entities an obstacle to recovery and a serious risk to the survival of many public services provided by local corporations. Today we have heard again some of the same falsehoods and the same demagogic speeches about reforms at the local level made by the People's Party in the past legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, none of the major disasters announced and repeated by you today have occurred. No municipality has disappeared, no competition has been lost on the part of any municipality, no social services have been abolished, no massive privatization of public services has occurred, and no thousands of jobs that you said were going to lose have been lost. Moreover - this is very important and is not taken into account - the problems of constitutionality that the law may have have have already been resolved by the Constitutional Court, when it pronounces itself widely and, indeed, declaring constitutional the vast majority of the precepts subject to controversy of the various appeals submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not think there are any reasons why you should amend this law in the direction that marks this proposal put forward by the United Parliamentary Group-We can, quite the contrary. With the processing of this initiative we would fill the local corporations with uncertainties and run serious risks of returning to the old problems that the local administration is fortunately overcome today. Today on this shift I'm going to try to show you how wrong you are. I could do so with general data and I could tell you, for example, that order has been placed in the local administration by removing 1,500 unnecessary entities - yes, yes, ladies and gentlemen, unnecessary - or that 97% of local entities today present budgetary surplus, or that the local government as a whole has gone from a deficit of 0.4% to a surplus of 0.5%, or that many hundreds of millions of euros have been saved in the payment of interest. I could also tell you, for example, that 2 million outstanding invoices have been paid by local corporations, worth 11.5 billion euros to more than 123,000 suppliers, saving hundreds and hundreds of businesses and thousands and thousands of jobs, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I could also use prefabricated arguments, such as those we have heard here this afternoon, or with that easy and demagogic rhetoric that you have used, for example, Mrs Honorato this afternoon in this rostrum, but I think I will convince you better if I tell you about two municipalities in my province, Almeria, the municipality of El Ejido and the municipality of Macael. You, Mrs Honorato, have told us about Paris, Berlin, European cities; I am going to tell you about Spanish municipalities. I will tell you briefly what these municipalities were like in 2011 and what they are like today, after five years of managing two major mayors and after five years of implementing not only the law which is intended to be repealed today but also a lot of measures approved by the Government of Spain and which have served to guarantee the public services received by the neighbours of those municipalities and of the 8,125 that make up Spain. Municipality of Macael, 5,800 inhabitants, 5.6 million budget. You will know him because his famous marble, the Macael marble, is greatly appreciated. In 2011, the new government team of the People's Party met with a budget of 4.5 million euros and a debt of 18 million euros, 627 euros in municipal accounts, ladies and gentlemen, 3,700,000 euros in bills unaccounted for. Four payrolls were owed to all municipal workers, aid was owed to all cultural and sports associations, there were threats of power cuts to the town hall and even a public square in the village was seized by court order. Well, after the Local Rationalization and Sustainability Act and the liquidity and financial support measures adopted by the Government, the Macael City Council has been able to pay €6 million in outstanding bills, which has logically contributed to the maintenance of local businesses and the maintenance and creation of many jobs in the region, as my partner Carmen Navarro, who is from Macael, knows very well. Today the City of Macael is up to date with local workers, there is sufficient treasury for its proper functioning, there is no invoice unaccounted for, the embargo on the square was lifted, the law of lateness is complied with and there is liquidity to improve public services. And listen carefully, for the first time in the history of the Town Hall of Macael a social fund has been created, endowed with 30,000 euros, destined for neighbors who cannot pay for the light, water or food of first necessity and hygiene; a fund that is nourished, by the way, with resources proper to the Town Hall. All this, ladies and gentlemen, I insist, thanks to the Government of Spain and a great management of a government team of the People's Party led by its mayor Raúl Martínez. By the way, as further information I will also tell you that the Municipality of Macael is also paying for part of the services that are the competence, Mr Pradas, of the Board of Andalusia: the Regional Drug Addiction Centre, the Women's Information Centre, the Women's Employment Unit, childcare services, etc. They are, in short, autonomous competencies that, as happens in so many places, have to assume local corporations. I take the opportunity to refer again to the issue of unconstitutionality resources. As far as the contrary is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the judgments already handed down by the court have confirmed the constitutionality of most of the contested precepts, leaving the essential aspects of local reform safe - whether they like it or not - to their liking. Another municipality, El Ejido; municipality of 90,000 inhabitants, with 78 million euros budget; municipality that you will also know, because it has many greenhouses and is known for its vegetables and vegetables and because it is the garden of Europe. In 2011 this town hall was bankrupt: 300 million debt, refusal of suppliers to provide services, monthly cuts in electricity supply, poor quality public services affected by defaults and workers' strikes, inability to make investments even for maintenance. Well, as in the case of Macael, thanks to the measures taken by the City Council of El Ejido, after five years of management of its mayor, Paco Góngora, and its government team and thanks to the measures taken by the Government of the People's Party, today that city council has closed in 2016 paying in thirty days, with remnant of positive treasury. He paid more than 5,000 invoices to more than 400 suppliers worth 122 million euros; they were many companies about to disappear and many workers about to lose their jobs. Thanks to the measures taken by the Government of the People's Party, the budget has been increased by more than 30 per cent for basic services such as cleaning or garbage collection, and investment capacity has been recovered to the extent that it has been able to request support for sustainable development strategies. All this has been thanks to what was done in the past parliamentary term by the People's Party Government. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many examples throughout Spain of municipalities and mayors doing the same. I could continue to talk about thousands of municipalities and thousands of mayors who today provide better services than four years ago. What I do not know is whether you could go back to this rostrum and set examples of municipalities that have cut or privatized public services during these years because of those reforms that you say of the People's Party. I would like you to set the example of the City Council of Rivas in the Community of Madrid, ruled since 1983 by Izquierda Unita, which has privatized, according to its vocabulary, the maintenance of lighting equipment, the service of sending mail and notifications, the service of road signs and also the management of sports schools and the service of help at home. And, by the way, after the local reform came into effect, the city council was able to recover without any problem the Municipal Housing Company, which was outsourced or privatized, as you like to say. Therefore, less demagogy, ladies and gentlemen of the Podemos Group. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group - and I conclude, Madam President - is going to vote against this bill because it is wrong, because it is unnecessary and because it poses a serious risk to the smooth running of local corporations and, more importantly, to the provision of the services that the neighbours of these municipalities receive today. Repealing what works and results for ideological reasons, ladies and gentlemen, is a serious mistake which seriously harms citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, urgent measures in the area of local governance have already been taken during the previous parliamentary term, which today offer positive results such as those I have mentioned to you from municipalities such as El Ejido and Macael. Ladies and gentlemen, all this - I insist - has been thanks to the reforms actually promoted by Minister Montoro. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u62	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u63	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the creation of a public banking pole. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Domènech Sampere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u64	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I hear a bit of a shock from many parliamentary groups to declare themselves radically against the LRSAL and at the same time to explain that they are going to vote against the repeal of the LRSAL. You can explain the reasons you want, but today's headline is going to be that the Montoro Law keeps it people who say it's against the Montoro Law itself. It's not explained at all. [[Applauds]] Two weeks ago I asked the Minister of Economics, Mr Luis de Guindos, about the bank bailout. The question was very simple: how did the government intend to recover the EUR 60 billion that had been injected into the Spanish banking system since 2009. The question was simple and the answer was nothing; there was no answer in parliamentary control. That nothing in which all the statements of the representatives of the Government of Spain, who had said that the taxpayers would not pay that 60 billion of bank bailout, were converted, is a non-minor silence, bearing in mind that the history of our crisis, however much they have told us other things, is basically the history of the financial and banking crisis. It is true that when the crisis began quickly they said that it was our fault, that the fault of the crisis was that we had all lived above our possibilities, but we all know that the truth is that whoever had spent, speculated and cheated above our possibilities was nothing other than the global financial and banking system and also of our own country. This is not just a problem of the Spanish state, of course, it is a global problem, and the problem is called, in Keynes' words, casino capitalism, the set of deregulation policies on the financial system that was practiced in the 1980s and 1990s, which ended with everything that had been implemented from the lessons of the crack of 29 and the 1930s; that irrationality and irresponsibility that was applied during those decades led us to a casino capitalism, to global speculation. It is worth remembering - because now you will think that I am making an extreme left speech; nor is anything happening - that a president like Eisenhower, a right-wing Republican, a general, taxed the benefits of short-term transactions on the stock exchange with 80%. Surely for many of you Eisenhower today would be a little totalitarian pamper and Venezuelan dyes, but we all know that was not the subject. In any case, he was someone who knew that a casino capitalism could not be allowed. The magnitude of the problem we have, which has not been faced here or anywhere, is explained very briefly with a single data, and with that data alone I will try to explain it. In 1982 the financial assets of planet Earth were worth five times as much as the real production of planet Earth. In 2008, when the crisis began, the set of financial assets on planet Earth was worth sixteen times more than the actual production on planet Earth. That's the problem, that's the crisis. So when they told us they were rescuing us, they were actually abducting us; they were saying, "Who is going to pay the bill for that speculation?" [[The lady]] The problem is indeed global, and nothing has been done to solve it despite the current joys of thinking that we have already emerged from that crisis. But in Spain this problem was also of a special quality, which was that of the Spanish banking system, that banking system which managed, in the middle of the autarchy and then under the dictatorship, the largest profit margins in Europe; those six large banking groups which controlled 40% of the country's industrial assets; that banking system which had no problem in socializing losses and privatizing profits in favour of INI, a practice that we still live on today, which has not changed with the transition from dictatorship to democracy. Moreover, during the democratic period it also ended, to help the banking system, with public banking. The public bank had a market share of 20% and was privatized. And you'll say, "It's just that it had to end." In Germany, public banking currently has the same quota and has allowed anti-cyclical policies that have not been achieved here. [[Applauds]] In fact, while we had to inject 60 billion into that financial system because if we didn't all go to ruin, the Spanish banking system was making a profit of 95 billion euros. It's not bad to be in crisis, it's not bad at all. This is called the biggest theft in history in our economic system. The reality was that what was sold was that the financial system had to be saved in order to return the credit, which did not come back, led to evictions, accumulation of floors in the hands of the banks, strangulation of the productive economy, ground clauses and revolving doors, many revolving doors, with black cards included. That was the gratitude of that financial system to all of us, who were giving it our resources. In fact, first of all - as I have little time, I will try to focus on the subject - what have we seen? We have seen how the banking system has become even more concentrated in these years. We saw how banks or ransom boxes were sold that had been worth 2 billion euros for one euro. We have seen how once again, as always, profits were privatized and losses socialized, all with the necessary cooperation, no doubt, of this Government and the regulators. What is our proposal above all this? Regulation. What is our proposal above all this? Public bank. It's a taboo, as it used to be or it's taboo to talk about nationalization. It is taboo to talk about nationalization only when it is in favour of the most, because nationalization we have nationalized as never before when it has been in favour of the least. [[Applauds]] Here there is an organized welfare state, but not for citizenship; it is for the rich of this country. Faced with this - and I am finishing - our proposal is to create a banking pole from Bankia and Mare Nostrum, a public banking pole. It may seem radical to them, but the World Bank itself recognizes the positive role that public banks in several countries have played during the financial crisis to maintain the flow of credit, partially offsetting the reduction in credit offered by private banks, as well as the evidence of the countercyclical role played by several public banks, an opportunity that we did not have here. We will try to make new policies for new times, to really overcome this crisis and not to live alone in the organized cynicism of the financial system. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Domènech Sampere. In defence of the Socialist Group's amendment, Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the initiative put forward by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the creation of a public banking centre, it should be said that public banking already exists in Spain. The state, through FROB, holds the majority shareholder in Bankia and Banco Mare Nostrum, as a result of the process of nationalization of the old savings banks integrated in these banks to save them from bankruptcy, and there is the ICO, which is a public investment bank, that is, there is already public banking in Spain. The fundamental question, however, is not so much the creation of a public banking pole - which already exists - as whether or not we want to maintain the public character of these banks and develop or under what conditions and circumstances a public bank and what kind of public banking; whether we want to analyse what market failures can exist in the Spanish financial system and how to respond to them and whether we want to see how some aspects of social contribution and economic-territorial development that the disappearance of savings banks have left unattended and define which model of financial system can be the most appropriate for the economic development of this country. This debate seems to us to be substantial. We have seen that if something undermines the economic development of a country and poses a very serious risk to workers and to the help of people it is the bankruptcy of the financial system or of one of its banks, whether public or private, or some private foundation with social content such as the boxes, as we have seen in recent years with the financial crisis and the advent of the one known as the great recession. This should lead us to learn the lessons of the past and not to insist on policies that have led us to failure. Consequently, if something is not to be done, it is necessary to restore the savings bank system as it was previously conceived or to establish a new public bank to operate as those. But it is also true that we must not leave everything in the hands of a market that alone, without control or regulation, becomes a jungle and leads us to the precipice, as has been seen in the international financial crisis. The global financial crisis was not born of the collapse of the Spanish savings banks or the bankruptcy of the few existing public banks, but occurred at the heart of world financial capitalism and affected private banks managed by private advisors. In the case of Spain, the system of savings banks, overly leveraged after a process of territorial expansion and credit linked to the real estate bubble, with very little financial resilience in the face of a shock of these magnitudes and with a system of governance and of business and personal behaviour in some cases clearly improveable and denouncing. The World Bank, in a 2013 report - which you mentioned - refers to the countercyclical nature of public banks in developing countries and also says that introducing public banks when there is no market failure or with ineffective management can create significant risks to the financial system, public finances and the economy. The Socialist Group defends, as it has always done, the mixed nature of the economic and financial system and understands that, given the systemic nature of the banking system, which makes it available a public safety network, introducing where market failures exist actions or public actors subject to good governance, good regulation, the existence of appropriate and strict counterweights, competition and controls can be positive for the Spanish economy as a whole. In addition, the empowerment of a more social bank, such as credit unions and ethical banking, together with new extra-banking structures that expand the spectrum of financing the economic fabric, always according to parameters of efficiency, solvency and rigour, can enrich and expand the financial supply to the people and businesses of our country, reduce banking concentration, increase competition and ultimately generate a more robust, diversified and solvent financial system. In this context of debate on the future of the Spanish financial system, in which we are to be found, the Socialist Group has tabled an amendment in which we urge the Government to support the merger of the financial institutions Bankia and Banco Mare Nostrum, not to divest investment in Bankia and BMN at a price that does not allow the recovery of the public aid granted to both entities, to enhance ICO's resources as a public investment bank in financing infrastructure and equipment projects, strategic business projects and projects for SMEs, entrepreneurs and self-employed people, and we call on the Government, among other things, to provide special funding lines to prevent the financial exclusion of individuals, groups or economic persons with difficulties in accessing credit. We have reached an agreement with the proposing group through a transaction that merges the proposals of the two groups and, therefore, we will support the initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Lasarte Iribarren. At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Domènech, of En Comú Pomem, said that this initiative might seem a little radical and I know that I was not thinking of people like us and us, of the people of Euskal Herria Bildu, but rather of other benches. Honestly, it doesn't seem very radical to us, it doesn't seem at all to us. [[The Lord]] We are not going to vote against it; we were not going to do it with the original proposal and we are not going to do it with the compromise, but in any case I do say that we think it is very timid for the current reality. We and we continue to say something that is very basic on the left and that is that we believe in the intervention of the public power, we believe in the intervention of the State in the economy and we believe in the need for public banking, strong public banking, public banking capable of intervening and determining strategic sectors or of influencing the strategic sectors of a country. That is what we want for our country, for Euskal Herria; that is what we intended and intend to have and that is what we were close to having until they decided to snatch some of the instruments that were in our hands, such as savings banks, through banking, through the Law on Banking Foundations. That is a reality that we miss in this text, because it is true that you speak of Decree 26/2013, but you do not allude to Decree 24/2012, which also speaks of how privatization is carried out to banking entities that may not function in such a disastrous way, in such a shameful way, I would say that in such a criminal way as some banking entities that are being talked about today have done, but that they could also be subject to the public motive and that by this Law 26/2013 they are engaged in a scenario of privatization, disposing of citizens the possibility of having public instruments. You pointed to an issue that we agree with. We have lived through times of socialization of losses and privatization of profits. Curious. It is curious that in this House, where the neoliberal logic is so often emphasized, that we must let the private initiative be taken, that we must bet on public-private collaboration, which is always the detraction of public money to private hands, resort to the father state, who resort to public institutions when the management of their business is ruinous. We've been living bank support for Rato, we've been living millionaire retirements and millionaire salaries and they want us to get on our nails, get angry with what the hedgehogs charge, they've earned it and they've fought it. I'll finish with a question. The problem with banking entities is not that they were public and that this is why they were poorly managed, but that some used their public character to manage them intentionally badly, to place their friends on the boards of directors and to draw money from everyone and bring it into very specific and particular pockets: those of a few. We think that's what we should attack and that's why he said he seems shy.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first to open his mouth was the Minister of Economics there in May 2012; Mr De Guindos did well to say that in that excessive amount of public money that they were going to give to the banks there was no cost to taxpayers. Shortly afterwards, Vice President Sáenz of Santamaría told us that this covert ransom was made with a fundamental objective: that it would not cost the taxpayers a euro. And the wink put it as always Mr Rajoy, who in November 2012, in full debate with the candidate of the Socialist Party, affirmed with total roundness: I, of course, do not intend to give a single euro of public money. Well, over 61 billion, ladies and gentlemen. By the way, you add the 300 million in ground terms that you have now rushed back to privatize Bankia and Mare Nostrum without charges for your little friends. Mr Rajoy - you are not present, as always - in any advanced democracy, you, your Vice-President and the Minister for Economic Affairs would have resigned, but, of course, it seems that we are not in an advanced democracy. And there's one very serious thing that happened yesterday. How is it possible that, in a democracy, an independent body with regulatory functions such as the Banco de España could authorize Bankia to go out on the market knowing for its technicians that it was going to be a real disaster? His people at the Bank of Spain, the people of the People's Party, are responsible for this scam. You put the scammers at the head of the Banco de España. I'm done. We will support this proposal for a law, even if it can be improved, for two fundamental reasons. One, the excessive expenditure that bank rescue has entailed and, two, because we think that it is necessary financial muscle to recover this country in industrial terms as the German Länder, for example, do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u71	Thank you, Mr. Candela. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be brief. Without a doubt, the banking sector has a social function, giving credit, giving opportunities, boosting the economy, and the big mistakes of the banking sector in recent years have been caused by not being controlled, not being monitored. Mr Domènech, the big mistakes have been made by the General Directorate of Caisses of the Ministry of Finance or by the Banco de España and these big mistakes, these negligences can lead to criminal liability. In fact, the former managing director of the Banco de España since yesterday is investigated - in ancient terminology, imputed - for possible irregularities in this supervisory function. The service can be provided from the public or from the private, what must be done is to place the emphasis on greater supervision of these negligences. The story of the boxes is the story of how there was a political will to destroy a system that was public, that had its positive aspects, but also its client aspects that were closely linked to local power. Unfortunately, you in the explanatory statement speak of the German model of boxes, which is not what has happened in Spain in recent years. They also talk about banking concentration, but if we look at it from the Spanish perspective, we can talk about the five major Spanish banks, but we are in favour of European integration, which means that one of the three pillars of free movement is the free movement of services and, therefore, also the opening up of the Spanish market, one of the most closed, to the banks of the whole of Europe. In short - and with this I conclude, Mr President - it is not the service that provides, but the quality of supervision. The ICO has to be strengthened because it provides a very important service to local governments and to the financing of local government projects, but if we have to promote free competition, we have to do it among equals, who can be perfectly private if they are well supervised. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u74	Good afternoon. Our group validated the Royal Decree 4/2016 of 2 December of urgent financial measures, considering that, according to market forecasts, it was prudent to extend deadlines to make a correct sale of the assets derived from the bank restructuring and maximize the profit that could be obtained without going into discussion about the banking union or the reason for the creation of the Sareb-FROB instruments. The objective must therefore be that the public loss is the least possible and guarantee and maximise the recovery of the public aid granted in the restructuring process of the Spanish banking system. The global financial crisis highlighted a number of weaknesses in regulation, including the high leverage of banks, excessive credit growth, enhanced by, inter alia, lax credit standards, a high level of systemic risk and insufficient liquidity levels. For this reason, the Financial Stability Council and the Basel Committee have been developing a set of reforms consisting, on the one hand, in the adoption of more demanding criteria regarding the levels and quality of capital required of the entities, and, on the other, in a rethinking of the general framework, thereby recognizing the need to complement solvency ratios with other measures. We must be aware that a credit institution, taking the form it takes, would be fully affected by requirements issued by international bodies within the framework known as Basel. This affects all the assets of an entity - solvency, suitability, liquidity, risk management, market disclosure - and therefore a more thorough analysis should be carried out if a financial instrument is to be recovered - a public fund - which has not been a very good example of anything, since they have been financial institutions more concerned about the financing of certain transactions than about their solvency. The Spanish state had savings boxes - the closest to what the public bank can be - already disappeared and owned by municipalities, parliaments, communities. Their general assemblies were therefore composed of representatives of these administrations, who determined the composition of their boards of directors. The boxes we knew carried out deposit and loan operations in a manner similar to the banks, acting on competition criteria. However, a significant part of its benefit was reinvested into society through its social work, which included the granting of scholarships, the recovery of assets, care for the elderly, and thus, in addition to their financial function, they performed social-benefit work. They were specialized in channelling popular savings and financing families and small and medium-sized enterprises, with a wide network of offices at the local level. However, the experience of the Spanish savings banks - here we make the exception of the Basque banks, unfortunately we cannot say the same about the CAM, which disappeared - shows that they were characterized by being completely politicized and very poorly managed institutions. They were at the forefront of the granting of mortgage credit and promoter during the brick boom under openly lax and uneconomic conditions. The managers of the cashiers allocated generous funds and assumed too many risks in operations that we can call more than dubious. If we understand public banking as a public equity bank, there has already been in Spain, in Europe and in the United States, but obviously in the Spanish state its behavior has not prevented the crisis. In this restructuring process, all financial aid has been granted to the old savings banks. The non-cash entities involved were the property of savings banks, i.e. all the ransom money has basically gone to public entities. The non-law proposal also mentions SMEs. It is true that 72% of SMEs seeking credit get it, but the rest do not get funding and the main cause, according to different studies, is the lack of guarantees and guarantees. Therefore, 28% of businesses have been left without funding or because they refuse it, because they do not get to ask for it or because they are still waiting for the answer. It is therefore necessary to have systems that allow SMEs access to credit, since the start-up of new businesses and the maintenance of existing ones are a decisive factor in consolidating the path of growth and employment, but they should not necessarily be the banking model. There are other alternatives, one can go to models of non-bank financial intermediation, with systems of intensive use of venture capital, mutual guarantee, shared risks, institutional investors with financial support directed to SMEs with agreements with mutual guarantee companies and financial institutions. You also mention the creation of a public banking centre that wants to prioritise the financing of public infrastructure and equipment projects, long-term business projects within a coherent industrial policy that favours SMEs, but this, in our view, must also be done from different levels of government and even with public-private collaboration. We believe that it is essential to have an appropriate industrial policy that directs SMEs towards advanced strategies and that supports them in their processes of growth, internationalisation and improves their competitiveness, but it seems risky to use a public banking pole as an economic policy instrument without having carried out an analysis of market prospects, legal possibilities and budgetary capacity or management form, among others. At the time when other people's resources are handled, they must be very cautious, rigorous and prudent when granting credit, so that the risk analysis must preside over this concession, in addition to having specialized professionals for this purpose. A bank that does not seek profitability and solvency in a short time can have a huge hole. A bank, also a public bank, should, of course, seek profitability and solvency. Moreover, as I have already mentioned, the creation of any public instrument must be subject to European public aid constraints subject to the criterion of private investor in a market economy, i.e. that when granting financing in the capital of a private project you cannot do so at a loss. The recovery of investment should be considered as would a private investor, so having a public bank would also limit the granting of financing. More than a public bank or a public bank pole, it is therefore necessary to advocate for public investment plans from the institutions to create an industry capable of supporting the welfare state. A competitive industry is fundamental to the generation of wealth, employment and well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u76	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. To someone it might seem a mere coincidence that we are here today talking about Bankia and that just yesterday afternoon-night he resigned half a dome from the Banco de España precisely because of the Bankia case. Well, it's not. The need for a public bank is an ideological option, but sadly not only ideological; it is the result of a cluster of circumstances on which the Bank of Spain was at its top and as a bank supervisor. Today we have been brought here to discuss this non-law proposal concerning the creation of a public banking pole. We insist, it is for the greed and usury of the international financial system and in particular of the Spanish one that has led to a process of citizen awareness, which has seen how it has had to pay the feast of indecent profits of the Spanish financial system, the last decade above all. People have had to live in their flesh as the one who called himself the best financial system in the world, the Spanish, and the one who for some president of the government was in the Champions of the world economy, led an entire state to the gates of bankruptcy and poverty to millions of people, a situation that we still carry today. It was not a crisis, it was the greed of the Spanish financial system, its appetite for insatiable profits and at any price, so insatiable that it had to ask the European bank for more credit so that the party would not stop. From here comes the repayable public debt that we carry today, a debt that we are obliged to pay, and whose payment is put before any other thanks to the amendment of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution approved by the People's Party and the PSOE. The governments we have had care much more that Catalonia can exercise its sovereignty than to lose sovereignty over banking or what they call markets, which they care nothing about. All the savings of the citizens who had relied on this financial system were wiped out in order to continue to give credit, which he never lost. The party wasn't for everyone: if the customer didn't pay, they stayed with their house, and on top of it had to continue paying the debt; and if the bank lost, it was too big to let it fall, and it was rescued. The losses were socialized. All taxpayers had to pay for the mistakes of a criminal financial system at the expense of our basic public services. So far, his criminal practice has cost the public a minimum of €122 billion. That is why we are here, to propose what should never have been lost and built and strengthened, a public bank that really helps small businesses and people, a bank with a public service vocation instead of a cave of Ali Baba that only intended to profit at any price, and sharing obscene profits that did not belong to them because of the work done, much less. That is where this initiative comes from, from the popular will to recover an institution that we believe is necessary to help the economic growth of most people. We are convinced that a public banking activity is necessary and essential to ensure savings, manage payments and charges, facilitate consumption of individuals and families, assist investment by SMEs or finance social housing or social rent. The State must guarantee these economic rights through public banking and thus avoid financial obstruction. And if that were the case, let's rescue a word like expropriation. There are things that can't be in private hands, and less in what way. Similarly, we advocate public health and education, attention to dependency, social services, public transport, pensions and all the rights of workers conquered throughout history. Esquerra demands a public bank, a bank with greater guarantees, in front of a private bank that aims to distribute the largest profits in the shortest possible time among its shareholders, not among the people; a bank for which everything is not worth, such as lending far above deposits, especially in the real estate business, and with risky operations in the capital market that knew they were leading to bankruptcy. Bankia, whose majority shareholder is now the state, can be an opportunity, as the rapporteur said, for this it is necessary for the state not to sell the last remaining vestige of the public bank, Bankia, convinced that Bankia at the present time, together with the ICO, can play a role in mobilizing a social credit. To see Mr Fernández Ordóñez accused today does not surprise us, that gentleman who asked to reduce our redundancies, our wages, while they were charging indecent salaries, set by themselves, and at the same time trying to benefit from the group of people who had entrusted their investments and savings to the banking institutions. I'm finishing up. A public bank is essential, and the first of the infrastructures that the state of Catalonia, if the referendum comes out in favor of independence and if we are in the government, will create. In the meantime, we will vote in favour of this non-law proposal concerning the creation of a public bank in the Kingdom of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. There is a saying that man is the only animal that stumbles twice on the same stone. Well, it would be said that this is what your ladies and gentlemen of Unite Podemos claim with this proposal, that we again stumble on the same stone, a stone that has come out dear to all the Spaniards. Haven't you had enough with the bank bailout cost us more than €60 billion? This is what comes to be fifteen times the health budget, twenty-four times the education budget or forty-eight times the dependent budget. All this rescue, all this cost, that 60 billion euros are attributable to the savings boxes, savings boxes that functioned as public banks managed by members of old parties or related entrepreneurs with political criteria and not management; public banks, ladies and gentlemen of United Podemos. Namely: Catalunya Caixa, chaired by Narcís Serra, former Minister of Defense of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party; Bankia, chaired by Rodrigo Rato, Vice-President and Minister of Economy of the People's Party, and Miguel Blesa, friend of Aznar; Novacaixagalia, chaired by Mauro Varela, former MP; Mediterranean Savings Bank, chaired by Modesto Crespo, businessman related to the People's Party; Castilla-La Mancha Bank, chaired by Juan Pedro Hernández Moltó, former MP. And so, if you want, ladies and gentlemen, we can continue to reach EUR 60 billion. [[Applauds]] But let's talk about Bankia, the old Caja Madrid, which you now want to turn into a public bank pole. Does the name José Antonio Moral Santín ring a bell? Moral Santín, a militant at the time of the Communist Party of the Peoples of Spain and therefore a founding member of the United Left, was placed in the vice-presidentship of Caja Madrid in 1996 thanks to a pact between PP, PSOE and IU. The truth is that it is difficult to find a better example of the chanchullo that were the savings boxes, agreements between gulfs of all ideology and origin to take it raw to the cost of all citizens. [[Applauds]] It is not a small thing to spend in ten years of the Communist Party of the Peoples of Spain as vice president of a savings bank and wholeheartedly support the management of Mr Miguel Blesa. And you want to go back to this? It's just like your colleagues at the United Left or some other partner have told you that being on the boards of the savings banks was cool; you know, by the extras I was assuming. Sounds to you like Don Ramon Spinar Senior, don't you? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the United States We can, let's be a little serious. For what you propose we already have the ICO, which works reasonably well. They talk in the explanatory statement that in Germany, Italy or France there are public banks, but they don't quote the German Landesbanken, public banks that were rescued as our savings banks. His economic guru did quote them in some article he wrote, but now they take that example because it doesn't matter. No, ladies and gentlemen, we must not stumble on the same stone, we must not create public banks that serve to place the relatives or friends of politicians, to finance pharaonic and ruinous projects that lend for a personal interest to companies that will surely not pay or to parties that will later have to return the favors. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of United We can, this weekend we have heard some member of your party boast that they have no debts to banks, that must be in some alternative universe, because in the real world United Left, who are sitting on their bench, has a debt close to 11 million euros. [[Applauds]] No, ladies and gentlemen, what we must do is to open a committee of inquiry, analyse everything that has happened in the boxes, take note of it, clear the political responsibilities that might arise from that investigation and learn to avoid making the same mistakes that we have made. In that, gentlemen of Podemos, we can agree. So far the PP and the PSOE had blocked that commission of inquiry up to two times and it is good that the third one was finally the one that has been won, but today we also dawn seeing that the PSOE wants a commission of inquiry on the outflow of Bankia. Gentlemen of the PSOE, let's investigate everything and all the boxes, not just Bankia's outing. Why have you been systematically blocking this commission? Maybe it's because both parties, both PP and PSOE, wanted to cover up the trash by putting it under the carpet. The same is true of both PP and PSOE chairing savings banks that have been rescued and the same is true of both parties being forgiven loans and credits. Caja Madrid forgave more than 16 million euros to the PP and PSOE.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u79	Mr. Gómez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u80	Yes, Mr. President. But we also have the United Left to whom credits were also forgiven. Perhaps it is also because in the midst of the crisis in 2008 when the tap was closed to businesses and private individuals, credit to the political parties of the boxes increased by 22%, I repeat, when the tap was closed to private individuals and businesses. That is why we want to cover up this committee of inquiry, even though we welcome the fact that it has finally been unblocked this morning. In short, ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude with this, Mr President - we must not fall into the same mistake, because for what you claim we already have the ICO and what we must do is open a committee of inquiry to clear up responsibilities and prevent the scandal of the rescue of the boxes from happening again. Because, if what they're really trying to do is something else, that is, to reassemble political chiringuitos to finance and plug their friends and themselves, then we tell them that they're always going to have us against them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Gómez García. Mr Bravo Baena has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Domènech, today we are bringing to the debate a GNP presented by the Confederal Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. It is still a reproduction of the GNP that was presented in 2012 by the United Left and allow me to one for the debate of what is the public banking pole. The objectives shared by us are to finance public infrastructure and equipment projects, business and collective projects with problems of access to credit and all this under the umbrella of employment. We bought it for you, Mr. Domènech, we agree. Only one thing changes, how you want to do it and how the People's Party does it, because many of these things have already been achieved. Let's do a little analysis. What did the People's Party do? The first thing, before giving credit what we did was pay, because some gentlemen had forgotten to pay more than 40 billion euros in bills, and that was the first thing we did. [[Applauds]] Besides, we have another element. You may be wrong in the concept that there is no public banking. Mr Domènech, what is ICO if it is not a public credit institution? And not just that, and what is Fonpyme? Which is to finance foreign investment! Even more courageous, Mr Domènech, we have public venture capital funds. And let's not just talk about Spain, let's talk about the European sphere. What is the European Investment Bank and what are the Feder funds, if not public? Analysis of the situation, Mr Domènech. What was the People's Party government found in 2012? It was found that 25 billion euros came out of Spain from January to August 2012 and that if we didn't help Bankia, Novacaixagalicia and Catalunya Caixa, it was the small investors who really lost. Do you know how much they had deposited, Mr. Domènech? About 380 billion euros. In addition, there were 61,000 workers who could have gone to the street. Obviously, the financial system had to be restructured. Mr Domènech, I believe that today on the People's Party bench we are congratulating you. They referred to Germany, France and Italy. Congratulations, that is the line, Mr Domènech, to look at those countries, not others that do not bring us. Besides, you've talked about the United States. I think today is a day when we are particularly happy, but let me tell you that the shot at the German bank was wrong. The benchmark for banking restructuring is Spain and I will give you three arguments from Germany. Laugh, but listen to me a little bit, please. Do you know how much the German bank restructuring cost? About EUR 140 billion. Do you know what the banks did when European Union stress control was carried out? The Spaniards, they all submitted; as for the Germans, there were many who did not want, Mr Domènech, for something it would be. And thirdly, Mr Domènech, there are currently banking entities - you can see in the media - some well-known bank, which is not yet clear on its financial situation, so we do not rely so much on the German bank and less on whether it is public. On the other hand, his colleagues in the 2012 GNP said that they recognized that the savings banks, the most similar to the public bank, had been used politically and that they had not worked. So, Mr. Domènech, why don't we learn, why don't we look forward, correct the mistakes and try not to repeat them again? In addition, Mr Domènech, let me tell you that you have tried to mislead the issue of rescue, the amounts paid, etc. That has already been discussed, you asked a question, in the Commission the other day Minister De Guindos also spoke about it, but let us refer to what you proposed, whether or not the government has listened to you. Mr Garzón said: It is better a public bank because of the situation of the financial system; otherwise, it will not work. Mr. Domènech, I play with advantage, but five years later the financial system has worked, and very well. Mr. Garzón said he wasn't going to flow the credit. Mr Domènech, the Bank of Spain in 2014 - not now, that the thing is going very well - said that it had increased by 32%. [[Show a document]] In addition, you said that it was necessary for job creation. Well, a million and a half jobs recovered. He also said: Let us fight to limit the over-indebtedness of families and businesses. Here you are, Mr Domènech, since 2012 you are on a continuous descent. [[Show a chart]] That is what you proposed and we have listened to you. And he said: Limit the salaries of bank managers and abusive clauses. Your Honor, royal decrees-laws 2/2012 and 3/2012, additional seventh provision and article 5; we have also listened to them. They protect the employees of the bank. Mr Domènech, we have protected them, we have made a sensible and coherent regulation in this area. And finally, Mr. Garzón, as an economist who is and with utmost respect, bet stronger, and said: There is a forecast of economic recession if we do not apply this measure. Mr Domènech, game with advantage, I repeat, but five years later we are the fastest growing country in the European Union, we have exceeded 3% in 2016 and the latest studies say that in 2017 we will continue to grow. By the way, I forgot: You don't share with Republican Left about expropriation, do you? The spokesman said that, if not, expropriation. I say we can't talk about expropriation, right? In any case, with Bankia and BMN. Finally, Mr De Guindos has listened to everything you asked for, he has given you an answer under a system not of public banking but under our system, so I think I can ask you now to trust Mr De Guindos, to trust his policy, because he has done well in Spain and is going to do much better. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Bravo. I ask Mr Domènech whether he accepts or rejects the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u84	A transactional has been presented, so we accept it as transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u85	We are aware that a compromise amendment has been tabled. The vote will then be taken on the amendment which has been referred to the Bureau. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON AMENDMENT OF THE LEGAL REGIME OF COMPANY ANIMALS IN THE CIVIL CODE. [[File number 162/000200]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u86	We move on to the next item on the agenda, a non-legislative proposal by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the amendment of the legal regime for pet animals in the Civil Code. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u87	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal that Citizens bring here today is based on a claim that millions of people are claiming. Almost half of Spanish households live with animals. When a country reaches certain levels of maturity and modernity it begins to worry about matters such as the one we bring here today. The welfare of animals is an objective that we set ourselves thanks to the degree of progress of the Spaniards. Human beings are a unique species for many reasons, one of which is the degree of empathy that evolution has given us. The moral obligation to avoid it derives from the ability to understand the suffering of other living beings. For this reason, we are bringing here today a series of measures aimed at improving the life and treatment we give to animals. First of all, I want to focus on the definition made of them by the Civil Code, which frames them within movable property, that is, things. The legal consequences resulting from this are inadmissible. They receive from the law the same treatment as any other object of our property. A few days ago at the door of Congress, a lawyer told me how in an embargo process he witnessed how they removed a dog who was screaming when he was separated from his family. Is this the law we want? My partner, Marta Rivera, when we talked about this topic, told me how her father wanted to adopt a dog in a protector and couldn't because it was the result of an embargo. It also happens that if you buy an animal and come with some congenital disease, they replace it with another, since it's like you bought a broken microwave, they replace it with another that works. Do you think it's normal? I know Mr. Rajoy doesn't think his dog Rico is the same as his chair. The president presented him proudly in society and did not then say: and now I'm going to show you my carpet, which is very cheerful and very kind. [[Applauds]] But love of animals does not understand ideology. Many of us have met Tirso, Mr. Iglesias' dog, who was tired of being expelled from the room when they were recording videos for their campaigns. Now it appears in one of them. I'm sure Mr. Iglesias wants the little Tirso more than his Game of Thrones pack. My partner José Manuel Villegas these days has a new roommate, her name is Tucky. Like every small dog, instead of teeth it has pins and José Manuel is marked with scratches, but does not give up playing with it. When he shows you the little marks, he smiles. I'm sure if you cut yourself with a knife, it would make you less funny, but both your cutlery and Tucky, in the eyes of the law, are things. I myself have a vile heart these days because my bitch, Minerva, has a disease that we don't know if it's serious or not. I expect results and I assure you that my fear is far superior to when my electric heater was damaged. I wish I had all my appliances broken and my bitch was healthy. Neither Tirso, nor Rico, nor Tucky, nor Minerva, nor any of the Spanish dogs and cats are things, and so many citizens think. A proof of the need to change this rule is the 243,189 signatures delivered here by the members of the Observatory of Justice and Animal Defence, to whom we wish to congratulate by taking advantage of the fact that they are here in the rostrum. [[Applauds]] Today, thanks to you, among many other things, this proposal is here. Other debates need to be opened, such as a framework law setting out the bases on which autonomous governments should legislate and ensuring the protection and welfare of animals. A couple of years ago I read in Science magazine, a study at the University of Azabu in Japan, which clarified the reason why dogs love their owners so much. It is the hormone of oxytocin, which generates the emotional bonds between a mother and a baby or between a couple of lovers. It is the same reaction that is generated in our dogs and to a lesser extent in our cats. Another objective that we have to mark in this Parliament, in this Congress, is to end the scourge of the 140,000 abandonments that occur every year, 140,000 desalinations that every year prove to be immune to this oxytocin. People who carry the dog or the cat in the trunk of the car, take him down on an unknown moor for the animal, remove the necklace, so as not to leave any signs of his shame, and throw him a stick to go and look for him. Then they get in the car and accelerate. I don't know what hormone works in the brain of someone who sees a dog running through the rearview mirror chasing his car, but they should study it well also because that hormone is in the essential substrate of evil. I don't know what mechanisms are inside the brain of those who dumped a bitch in a gas station. The employees saw the bitch running after her family's car and how hours later she came back with her legs bloody, exhausted and scared. They adopted her, she lives in the gas station today, but every time a car comes to the gas station, the bitch lifts her ears and is careful to see if her family comes to pick her up because, despite this high betrayal, she keeps waiting for them and will do so until the end of her days. [[Applauds]] You all know stories like Hachiko's, a dog who spent nine years in a train station waiting for his owner, who had died of a heart attack. Or that of the Gadite Canelo, the dog of a beggar who died at the Puerta del Mar Hospital in Cadiz, and spent twelve years waiting for him at the door. Today it has a plaque and a street in the city. Awareness must be raised against abandonment and adoption encouraged. We have to avoid impulse acquisition. Puppies should not be exposed in windows to avoid the promotion of momentary whim. Having an animal carries responsibilities. Dog fights is another of the repulsive activities that man sometimes organizes. I read in a book dedicated to the dogs Pérez-Reverte that a kind of instruction for the dog to give it all is that his master is near. This same master will throw the spoils of his dying dog into a container. These infamous people must suffer exemplary punishment and, once this is accomplished, be included in a register that prevents them from taking charge of an animal again. The commiseration with animals is intimately linked to the goodness of character, so that one can affirm that one who is cruel to animals cannot be a good person. That is why, because Spanish society does understand kindness and appreciates the loyalty and unreserved love and the absolute surrender of these magnificent beings loaded with oxytocin, today I would like to thank all groups for their willingness to deal with these matters. These measures will make us good citizens, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, we will be better people. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Bataller i Ruiz, the Joint Parliamentary Group, intervenes in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, Compromís is a strong animal welfare education and, for this reason, we, in Valencia and in many other municipalities in which we are pushing governments for change, have created animal welfare councils, and for this reason we here recently support a proposal to reduce the VAT on veterinary services and we will also support this institution and all the others in which we represent all the measures that are in favour of animal welfare. Therefore, this proposal that brings us Citizens we look at with sympathy, we fully share the bottom of it, although I must say that on its part we find some aspects unfocused because, first of all, we are talking about pets and not about the wider category of animals as sentient beings, sensitive beings, which should be the subject of special attention by the order. It is also important to stress that this proposal focuses everything on the reform of the Spanish Civil Code. As you know, this Civil Code is a venerable fossil that comes from the nineteenth century, which is currently not fulfilling its functions, which are those of the management of legal-economic traffic, and for this reason we can hardly expect from the Civil Code, which has been overcome by numerous sectoral legislation, which has also been overcome by civil codes in force in some autonomous communities and because, ultimately, from that text we can really draw few general categories in the matter that concerns us. In view of these shortcomings, we believe that it will be possible, in line with the amendment we tabled in Compromís, to reach a compromise with the proposing group, to which I would like the rest of the formations to be added, because we believe that it is possible to reform the code in what can continue to be useful, to establish a differentiated category of animals with respect to goods or things in order to provide them with specific treatment and, at the same time, to focus on the need to reform many other rules, such as, for example, the Civil Prosecution Act - Article 605 and concordants - in order to establish the inembargability of these beings. I therefore hope that this compromise will be reached and that the text can be voted on unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Democratic Party has tabled a replacement amendment, but, Mr Díaz, we have had no contact or news about your willingness or unwillingness to accept it. Perhaps after the debate we will have news of Citizens, of the proposing group of the initiative. We have made a replacement amendment, although we make our own words, and I quote: when a society reaches a level of maturity and progress, it takes one step further and begins to worry about the welfare of animals. End of date. Welcome, we'll tell you. The Civil Code of Catalonia already regulates that animals are sentient beings and we also have a law of our own, the Law on the Protection of Animals, which considers them, as I say, as sentient beings and which is also 2008. Therefore, welcome to progress, welcome to worry about the welfare of animals. Why is it necessary to seek the welfare of animals? Because, indeed, it is typical of mature, advanced societies, because it favors a responsibility as a very advanced society, because it favors more civic behaviors, because domestic animals, or not, are living beings, because no one can cause suffering or abuse or cause them anxiety or fear. Therefore, I tell you that for the Civil Code of Catalonia animals are not things and therefore have the protection of the laws. The Civil Code of Catalonia is applicable in Catalonia, and only subsidiaryly is the Civil Code. I say this because you, in your desire to homogenize, homogenize above your possibilities. If you want to homogenize - the meaning of our amendment goes that way - do it as advanced societies do, which have reached a level of progress: consider animals as sentient goods, both domestic and those you like to torture and call it a national holiday. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Carreño Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u93	Thank you very much, President. From the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea we welcome the fact that this House today welcomes an initiative to improve the consideration of domestic animals. But we must also say that we consider this initiative insufficient. The rapporteur himself of this initiative has spoken of abuse and neglect, issues which are in no way addressed in this non-legislative proposal. We therefore propose a replacement amendment to address once and for all the drafting of a framework animal welfare law. It is necessary to amend the Civil Code, since it currently qualifies animals as movable property, that is, as mere things, as inert objects. Pets are certainly not things, they are our friends, our companions, sometimes they are even felt as family members. In addition, animals, all animals, are sensitive beings. Therefore, the reason for amending our legislation cannot be based solely on the affection that people feel for some animals, but on the recognition that animals are living beings with sensitivity and therefore subjects of moral consideration that deserve respect. We cannot therefore limit ourselves to talking about some species or others. It would be hypocritical to limit the consideration of sentient beings to those who coexist with humans. All animals without exception are sensitive beings. It is supported by scientific evidence and several countries have also changed their legal systems in this regard. But beyond their consideration as sensitive beings, we need broader regulation, as is already the case in many other countries. Within the European Union, Article 13 of the Treaty of Lisbon calls on Member States to take account of animal welfare requirements, such as the so-called five freedoms adopted by the World Organisation for Animal Health in 2004. However, Spain has taken more than thirty years to ratify the European Convention for the Protection of Pets. I therefore ask you not to take another day to address this issue. We also need a state framework law because the absence of it currently causes a dispersion of regulations and encourages that there are large differences between the different territories of the State, with different autonomous laws and a multitude of municipal ordinances in this regard. Thus, while Madrid and Barcelona are at the forefront of many of the animal protection needs prohibiting the slaughter of healthy animals, in communities such as Castilla-La Mancha it is still legal to shoot a dog that is in the field, something that certainly attracts attention and reflects the regulatory disparity in our territory. That is why I am asking you today, ladies and gentlemen, that we should not close a debate that is already in society, which is a demand from many associations and animal lovers for too long, without ever having given an effective solution to the existing problem, despite the fact that both the government agreement of PSOE and Citizens, or even the PSOE programme since 2004, contains the promise to draw up an animal welfare law. Therefore, as we have been informed that they will promote that our amendment is not accepted, we would like to know what is the reason for this, whether it was simply false promises on their agenda or whether the problem is that it was not their own initiative. [[Applauds]] It is not the first time in this House that the need for animal protection has been discussed, or even if they can be subject to the law. We are aware that there is a great debate on this subject but it is time to address it. In this very rostrum, Mr Toni Cantó, a member of the proposing group, in an intervention that many animalists will never forget, argued that animals cannot have rights insofar as they are irrational beings, insofar as they are not required to do so. However, the ability to act, and therefore to enter into obligations, is not an obstacle to being subject to rights. Human rights are not based on any capacity, but on the dignity that has been recognized without exception since birth. Moreover, the laws are nothing more than the fruit of a human and social construction and it is therefore in our hands today to give this House, to give this country, a real framework law on animal welfare. That is why we demand a law that protects them and allows them to live in dignity, without being subjected to ill-treatment or cruel acts. This theory is also supported by article 337 of the Criminal Code, which punishes those who unfairly mistreat an animal. But the question is, when is an animal being mistreated exactly? We do not believe that, under any circumstances, cruelty to animals should be allowed. It is not permissible to tolerate non-ethical behaviour towards other living beings simply because they are not human beings and, therefore, we demand that there be, once and for all, an animal welfare law, as a large section of society has been demanding. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will rectify and accept our replacement amendment and that we will be able to draw up, once and for all, a framework law on animal welfare, agreed and worked with civil society, including a minimum of seven points, which would be, in addition to the proposed amendment of the Civil Code, an increase in the protection of animals, prohibiting and punishing abandonment and ill-treatment of animals and betting on public policies that combat abandonment. Let us remember that more than 300,000 animals are abandoned every year in our country. We also call for progress towards the zero slaughter of healthy animals in animal protection centres throughout the State, as well as improving the conditions of animals used for experimentation and other scientific purposes, prioritizing alternative methods to animal experimentation. We also call for a change in the model of zoos and dolphin parks based on scientific and pedagogical criteria. Finally, the elimination of subsidies for animal shows which do not ensure the welfare of animals, in accordance with the European Convention for the Protection of Animals and, inter alia, the elimination of cultural, artistic or heritage heritage figures from bull shows. Using the words of Immanuel Kant, a society is defined by the treatment it gives to its animals; a tolerant society is a society that cares about all living beings, humans and non-humans. Society has already made progress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u94	Mrs. Carreño, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u95	I'm done now. Society has already made progress. More than 80% of the Spanish population rejects Taurine shows, according to the latest survey by Ipsos MORI. Let us not now stand behind society, let us not delay in addressing the protection, defence and respect for the welfare of animals. If we and we do not bet on true complete legislation on this issue, by eradicating cruelty to animals and treating the rest of the living beings from an ethical and respectful point of view, then we and we will be irrational beings. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u96	For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Galovart Carrera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u97	Good afternoon, good afternoon, good evening, good afternoon. That animals feel pleasure, emotions, suffering and joy is a reality that has been observed with more or less intensity over time. Thus we remember that the first being to recognize Ulises after his trip to Ithaca was his faithful dog Argos. We know that animals have been inspired by Greek fables, Persian tales, the Bible, and the Koran. There are many writers who have had a special affective relationship with animals, Zola, Virginia Woolf, Chandler, Juan Ramón Jiménez with his Platero, Cortázar, Delibes with beautiful milana, Cabrera Infante, Soseki and thus an endless list. However, what has happened in literature and art has not happened in law, and it is that the consideration of animal sentiment was recognized in Europe in 2009 with Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in the Spanish State the reform of the legal status of animals was carried out for the first time in 2008 by the Catalan Law on the Protection of Animals. Undoubtedly, this was a pioneering law that has served as a guideline for the remaining autonomous laws. By the way, that law only provides for unembargoability and now it seems that the Civil Code is intended to go through other legal avenues. With the non-law proposal that I hope we will have sex, which basically reflects our amendment of amendment, we will close a circle, because art, literature, social reality and right will finally walk together. There are several reasons for our position. The first is that it is necessary and imperative to adapt our Civil Code to the Treaty of Operation so that it ceases to be regarded as moving things. Secondly, the Civil Code must be brought into line with the existing social reality. This is obvious. Thirdly, it is inexcusable to avoid unnecessary suffering for animals in disputes over the settlement of common assets. The fourth, we disagree that a pet may be out of the estate for all legal purposes, as advocated by the Citizens' PNL. This is a legal limbo. The fifth, the socialists advocate for the protection and welfare of animals and for promoting towards them a more responsible and civic behaviour of the whole society and its owners. It's also on our election program. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, by allusions, to make a point to the GNP that we are going to agree on, because I want to mean that the proposal by the United States We can draw up a basic law on animal protection requires another debate other than the one we are dealing with and that, in addition, it raises some other competitive problem of silence, which would require a more serious reflection. This is not a letter to the wise men. The socialist electoral programme was already talking about a framework law on social welfare - yes, Mrs de Podemos - but previously required sound studies among which should include the participation of different areas of competition. My group understands that the adoption of this law must have a prior consensus of the autonomous communities, since in another case more problems can be generated than it solves. The proposal for our amendment - which, I repeat, reflects the proposal not for a law passed - is confined to the subject matter covered by the proposal and to a jurisdictional area, civil law, which is attributed to the State by article 149.1.8.a. However, we are open to continuing to discuss this issue in future GNPs. Before concluding I would like to make a point: our recognition of the associations of animal welfare for their work in favour of the decosification of animals. And in particular to the Parliamentary Association for the Defence of Animals - to which I belong - for its proposal to establish the consideration of animals as sentient beings and which, because we fully agree with it, we have included in our amendment of amendment. Also, as it could not be otherwise, I would like to thank the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for being able to be here in this much-needed debate for this society. Now, to conclude, Mr. President, a quote from Lewis Carroll, the Cheshire Cat. He says, "Would you be kind enough to tell me why your cat smiles like this?" Alicia asked with a certain shyness. It's a Cheshire cat, put the Duchess back. I just didn't know those cats were always smiling, in fact I didn't know that the cats could smile. All cats can smile, said the Duchess, and most of them smile. And it is true, the cat of the Duchess smiles but all animals could also do so if Parliament is truly committed to protecting them. Today, ladies and gentlemen, is a good day for them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Galovart. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr De Barrionuevo Gener has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before starting my speech, I also wanted to greet the members of the Observatory of Justice and Animal Defence, with whom we had the opportunity to meet my spokesman and I. With regard to the non-legislative proposal submitted by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, the People's Group considers that domestic animals are living, sensitive and therefore cannot be considered as things. The People's Parliamentary Group is in favour of regulating and promoting adequate protection for pet animals, as reflected in our point number 16 of our social presentation, which was approved at our 18th congress last Saturday. The People's Party is committed to combating the abandonment and abuse of domestic animals. Proof of this was that in 2015 we started the reform of the Criminal Code. Organic Law 1/2015 of 30 March amends article 337 of the Criminal Code by aggravating the penalties up to eighteen months in prison for those who cause the unjustified death of a domestic animal, adding an additional penalty of two to four years'disqualification for the exercise of a profession, trade or trade related to animals or for the possession of such animals. Well, ladies and gentlemen, while the Penal Code has adapted to the sense of citizenship as regards the criminal protection of pet animals by recognizing them a special status for these animals with regard to things, our Civil Code, dating back to 1889, has become obsolete. The Civil Code considers pets as any other property, which may be embargoed or executed by the creditor for the recovery of a debt, or auctioned to liquidate a profit society. That is why we believe that a change in the legal regime for animals in the Civil Code must be addressed and brought into line with the requirements of the current society as regards relations with domestic animals. The proliferation of them and the special relationship of affection with their owners makes it necessary to equip the pets with a special status in our Civil Code, removing them from consideration of things. There is no doubt the greater sensitivity that society has today towards pets; there is nothing more to go to our jurisprudence, where issues of emotional ties are already analyzed either to attend to in cases of marriage crises, such as the ruling of the Provincial Court of Barcelona 465/2014 of 10 July, or to exempt the purchaser of a sick animal from returning them in the event of breach of the contract. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need to give a legal solution to pet animals and this has been considered by the legislation of the countries in our environment, such as Austria, in 1988; Germany, in 1990; Switzerland, in 2003; Belgium, in 2009; France, in 2015, and recently Portugal, which has adapted its regulatory texts to present times. I'll give you an example. In the French code, which is inspired by our Civil Code, article 515 has been amended by establishing that domestic animals cannot be considered things because they are sensitive beings. This is in accordance with Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, known as the Treaty of Lisbon. Our group has tabled an amendment to amend it, pointing out the need to protect, even with criminal sanctions, in order to avoid situations of animal abandonment. Following the negotiations with the Citizens' Group, we have come to a compromise amendment to promote the legal reforms necessary to create a special category in the Civil Code other than that already mentioned for animals, where they are defined as living beings with sensitivities. In addition, the necessary reforms should be made to ensure that pet animals are not subject to embargo in any judicial proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, there are people who have a relationship of affection with pets as if a child were being treated, and if our children are not being taken away from us, why they are going to be taken away from a pet. I would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by thanking Mr Guillermo Díaz for his non-legislative proposal on the amendment of the legal regime for animals, as well as the other political groups, which I know are going to join. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u100	Thank you very much, Mr De Barrionuevo. In turn of fixing positions, I have the floor, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u101	Thank you very much, President. I'll be very brief. We are faced with a non-legislative proposal for the amendment of the legal regime for pet animals in the Civil Code. We have already announced that we will vote in favour because we have signed a compromise amendment with the proposing parliamentary group and other groups in the House. This non-law proposal is based on the existence of a civil regulation, that of the Civil Code, which considers pet animals as belonging to its owner. This may not mean much to a law profane, but it can have disastrous consequences for both the pet owner and the pet itself because it means that, if I am a debtor, the creditor may ask that my pet - dog - get stuck, ending this in a dog without anyone can even adopt it because it is stuck. In short, the creditor does not get any benefit; the debtor is deprived of his animal, which was part of his family; and the dog, on many occasions, ends up dying of emotional helplessness. I could give more examples of Kafkian situations, but with one I think that's enough. We must consider whether this type of situation, which no one benefits and everyone harms, is worth maintaining. We must also consider whether it is acceptable, from the present social sensitivity, for a pet to be separated from its family core of coexistence in this traumatic way, in cases where they die, because they develop recognizable affections towards the human environment in which they live and grow. They are living beings, as already indicated, endowed with sensitivity. We should also consider whether it is not pets in many cases a support for the realization of people. Think of disabled people, people who live alone, older people or children with regard to their pets. There are sectors of the legal system that have already taken into account this new perspective of respect for the welfare of pets, and thus, as indicated in the explanatory statement of the proposal, the Criminal Code penalizes torture, ill-treatment and also abandonment as an offence. They're given a different status to things. It remains to be seen that this approach, which has already been made from criminal law, is now being made from civil law. Thank you very much. We shall vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u103	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Albert Camus said that not being loved is an accident and not knowing how to love a tragedy, and it is in a tragic way as in Spain animals are treated, and even more tragic that its legal order protects it. The Spanish Civil Code considers animals as movable property, as mere things or utensils; an anachronistic conception peculiar to Roman law that also protected the property of people and has obviously become obsolete. Animals are beings who feel, have complex physical and psychic sensations and can perceive and transmit emotions and moods. This is established by science and is reflected in the legislation of many advanced countries, including Catalonia. On 10 May 2006, as Mrs Ciuro reminded you, the Catalan Parliament approved the fifth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, the regulation of which is typical of the most recent Catalan legal tradition, which states that animals do not have the consideration of things and that they must be under the protection of the laws; an updated, humanitarian, scientific, sensitive conception of and with animals, which was incorporated into our historical civil law, the only one that was saved from the defeat of 1714 and that, not without difficulty, Catalan society and its representatives have been able to adapt to the reality of our times. We cannot say the same about the Spanish Civil Code, which maintains the regulation that we are dealing with today, as has been repeated, since 1889. On the basis of this reasoning - this is not our legislation, this legislation does not affect us - you will understand that our natural position is, as we have always maintained in this House, to abstain in everything that is alien to us, so we have not tabled amendments to this initiative, although we believe that it is better. However, for reasons of humanity and sensitivity with any legislation that updates and rationalises the animal human bond that decossates animals, we cannot stay out of the way. We will therefore support the amendments put forward by the parliamentary association for the protection of animal rights, which reflects the concern of so many animal associations, and with them, as seems to be the case, the compromise that arises from the dialogue between the groups. It is fortunate that this time we did not fall into a low-cost argument, such as when the statistics on non-zoonotic sexually transmitted diseases were used to oppose the reduction of veterinary VAT. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u104	In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments, I have to ask Mr Díaz Gómez whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u105	We are going to table a compromise amendment that we will bring to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u106	Thank you very much. We note that a compromise amendment will be tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u107	We then proceed to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals. It is appropriate to discuss, first, the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the precarious salary situation of the Civil Guard. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to tell you something that really saddens me. It saddens me to see how some use the good name of our forces and security forces to feed grudges and interested debates. Let me be clear. I refuse to party with those who give their lives for Spain; with those who make this a country where it is worth living; with those who care for our children, even when we don't see them. I refuse to believe those who speak of insurmountable differences. I want to use these minutes in the rostrum today to remember everything that unites our civilian guards and our national police officers. All of them have in common their unwavering will to serve, their capacity to sacrifice, even risking their own lives without hesitation to protect all citizens. I remind you of a video that's been circulating over the Internet for two days and I'm sure you've seen it. It's from a civilian guard who has to jump a guardrail so he doesn't catch a car when he was signaling another accident. It also unites them with their love of this homeland and our flag, which represents the values of the rule of law. In the most difficult moments, when others are afraid, their courage unites them, and in the hours of uncertainty, when others doubt, they unite their temperance, their excellent formation, their honesty, their democratic commitment and their humility, which have made the Civil Guard and the National Police the institutions most valued by the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And many, of course, unite friendship. Like Felix García Cid and Pablo Galego Estévez, national police and civil guard, respectively, who decided to share their vacations in Puerto Rico last summer. They could not imagine that that country, to which they had arrived as tourists, would fire them as heroes after saving the lives of two elderly people in a fire that declared itself near their hotel. Those are the security forces that we are so proud of; those that show a humanity that leads where they travel and knows neither borders nor working hours. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, friendship and close collaboration have been at the heart of the relations between the Civil Guard and the National Police throughout the democratic period. The result of this collaboration is the greatest milestones in our history in the fight against terrorism and crime. Thanks to the union between the National Police and the Civil Guard, for example, today we can say that ETA belongs to the past; a black past, that is, because our civilian guards and our police know very well what unites them, they know that they are the two collectives who have had to cry to more comrades because of the macabre terror of ETA. Between the two bodies there are 413 killed by the gang, almost half of the 829 total victims. Police and civilian guards have remained forever twinned in their pain, and the pain deserves respect. That is why it would be unworthy for the political parties to come to this House to generate controversy about the roles and retributive differences of both bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago I demanded from this very rostrum an improvement in salary for our civilian guards and today I will reiterate that demand. If the civilian guards work every day to make Spain a quiet and safe place, if they give their lives for this country, isn't it the least that this country can do to match them with a decent wage? Does it not seem reasonable to the Government that those who have to protect us are also protected by sufficient material and economic means? Don't you deserve such noble performance a dignified treatment on the part of the State? I repeat my demand two weeks ago, ladies and gentlemen, but in no way am I prepared to tolerate anyone wanting to find reasons in it for a confrontation with the National Police, because our police also take care of us every day and give their lives in the exercise of their work. I also demand more and better means for them; decent wages, tools to continue their training, reconciliation policies so that parents and mothers in the body can make their work compatible with their family. Citizens want an egalitarian police force to turn around with their women, who fortunately are more and more, and to be endowed with self-protection means adapted to their anatomy. [[Applauds]] All this stuff I want for our civilian guards and our cops. I know that the state will have to address these demands in a specific way. I am aware that each body has its particularities and needs linked to its specificity of performance, function and territorial demarcation. I have not come to deny differences, I have come to tell your ladies and gentlemen that we have exemplary security forces precisely because of their differences and not despite them, which is in the diversity where both bodies complement and benefit in their collaboration. There will be those who want to strive to make the particular conflict, but they will be wasting their time; wanting to forge a rivalry built on differences will only make us weaker in our shared task of providing security, because criminals do not know of jurisdiction or territorial demarcations. Therefore, the best way for the State to be effective in combating crime is by having security forces united and equipped with the best material, economic and human means at the service of its task. To this end, it is inescapable to address a reform that has been forgotten for too long. Ladies and gentlemen, our police model is governed by a standard of 1986; it does not need to list all the things that have changed in Spain since then. The threats facing our security forces have been transformed by technological progress and the advancement of globalization. Today we have new security challenges ranging from international terrorism to the penetration of cybercrime gangs; challenges that can no longer be confined to national borders, but are global. Since 1986 there has also been a demographic change that has tended to concentrate the population around large urban centres and a very important fact is the increasing incorporation of women into the security forces. All these events have generated new demands and adaptation needs in the Civil Guard and the National Police; the new times require the updating of the police model. For this reason, Citizens have called on the Government to create a table at which political parties and representatives of all the bodies concerned can sit to design a new consensual model, a model of the 21st century for a society of the 21st century. That table, ladies and gentlemen, should be articulated, in my party's view, on three principles: dialogue, negotiation and agreement. Three principles which are the identity signs of Citizens and which we have brought to this Parliament. The Government may have felt more comfortable ignoring this necessary reform, as it has been doing for years, or as usual in the darkness of its backstory. This time I'm afraid it won't be so. Citizens have come to do politics in another way, have come to demand transparency and I will repeat it to their lordships of the People's Party: dialogue, negotiation and agreement. These are the ways that citizens have brought to the institutions and the members of the Government are well aware of this, for if they occupy these armchairs today it is thanks to the application of this principle. Dialogue, negotiation and agreement are the values that should govern the updating of our outdated police model. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot waste any more time. The challenges of a society of the twenty-first century cannot be addressed from a police model of 1986; postponing this reform will only benefit those interested in sowing divisions. Our security forces need a framework agreement to ensure the proper performance of their functions and their collaboration. Ladies and gentlemen, let us protect our agents; only then will they be able to protect us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u109	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, first of all, I have the floor, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u110	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Greetings to all and to all and a greeting also to the recorder that Sánchez-Camacho left us here before leaving the door because today is a bad day to face and it is a bad day to be in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree to improve salaries and to close the pay gap between equals, but what we do not agree on is to open the door - this is what we believe this initiative is doing - to allow this House or the central government to get where it should not get in. This is a very liberal progressive principle, which everyone must touch on their own. What's scaring us? We are afraid to open the door for the central government to dare to decide what we should pay our security forces in Catalonia. In that sense, our amendment was to support and improve the proposal, accompanied by a technical study that not only talked about pay conditions but also about service benefits. Our amendment has another point that we want to highlight and underline, but we have already been told that it will be rejected, so that our vote on this initiative cannot be favourable. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. For the Joint Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. New Canarias is going to support this motion that has been put forward by the Citizens' Group. A few days ago I met with representatives of the Forces et Corpses de Sécurité du Etat in the Canary Islands who raised an additional issue that I would point out in case you have any interest in future negotiations. In the supplement of residence in the Canary Islands there are some officials dependent on the State Administration who charge what they owe and others do not, among them to which we are referring. This is one more element and I see that this is assumed, isn't it? It does not cease to be entirely regrettable that someone is not paid what has to be paid and we are also waiting for the holy event to be resolved. This seems to us to be a matter of elementary justice. Then there is another clear question: equal work, equal pay. Moreover, it is necessary to understand that the State Security Forces and Bodies in the recent Spanish democratic history have increased their prestige in a sensitive way and I believe that they have been loyal collaborators in many more aspects than exclusively citizen security. We will support this motion and have seen some interesting amendments; we do not know what the proposer group will do, but we think it would be very wise for them to accept it because it is broader than what the motion initially proposes. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u113	Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. As my colleague Pedro Quevedo said very well, there is an important problem of state officials in the Canary Islands in particular. They also claim the concept of residence compensation in Ceuta, Melilla and part of the Balearic Islands. The one in Ceuta and Melilla went up, the one in Baleares went up and the one in the state officials, prosecutors and judges went up two years ago; however, the civil guards, the national police and the rest of the state officials in the Canary Islands have not received this change that seems to be legal. The citizens' proposal we are going to support reflects that compromise. But there is another important issue, and it is the complement that certain civilian guards are charged for special danger or dedication that they are not exercising because they work in offices, and yet there are colleagues in the same circumstances that do not have those salaries. What does that mean? That the time has come to analyse in a common, global way - listening to all parties and analyzing the situation - the fact that the security forces and bodies of this country have an adequate job pay for the responsibility, dedication and risk they run. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Finally, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to make a parenthesis. As you know, in the Joint Group we split the shifts to talk and I couldn't do it in the first bill, which talked about pardon. If it is true and this initiative is finally approved, we will also call for the exclusion of those convicted of terrorism from the possibility of pardon. I want to thank Citizens for this initiative that allows me to thank the Civil Guard for their work and show our support, that of the Union of the Navarro People, to all the civil guards, from those who are destined in Alsasua to those who are destined in Ayamonte, and to say that we will not consent to the existence of a hate story against the Civil Guard. We are in favour of the dignity of work, of the professionalism of both the Civil Guard and the National Police, as well as of other autonomous and local bodies; we are in favour of improving their working conditions, remuneration or assistance. We would propose any limitations or conditions. We would not want these debates to be used to confront police, to generate new grievances. We - although the proposal does not say so - defend the military nature of the Civil Guard. We are therefore in favour of the dignity of the State Security Forces and Bodies, in favour of eliminating asymmetries, in favour of equity and equality of all and due respect for competition. We ask, as the proposer has done, for an effort to reach a political agreement that will ultimately allow us to adopt a text that we and those affected by it can be proud of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Socialist Group, Mr Trevín Lombán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you also for your recommendation in a matter of time. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to settle outstanding debts with members of the State Security Forces and Corpses. On 18 October, in the Committee on the Interior, the group I represent presented a GNP in which, among other proposals, it said: To improve the working, professional, economic and social conditions of members of the Civil Guard so that they can exercise their police work in decent conditions and develop their associative rights without any limitation. For this reason, we express our agreement and support this framework agreement that equals the wage levels and working conditions of the State Security Forces and Bodies, requested today by the Citizens' Group. They will have our support, and certainly that of the associations of the Civil Guard and of much of the police unions. It is necessary to correct any wage imbalances that may exist between the two bodies. The government has the real data, so it's time to get to work. It should compare the whole sample with acceptable criteria and eliminate any comparative aggravations. He doesn't have to start from scratch, he doesn't have an excuse. The job's done. A study was already carried out in 2011 to review the unique specific complements to the Civil Guard's job catalogue and this analysis proposed pay improvements for lower-paid guards, intermediate commanders and certain specialties. If it did not take place then it was as a result of the economic crisis, but now the time has come. The growth of our economy, which the Government so presumes, allows us to do so. We must be fair to the people who make Spain one of the safest countries in the world, despite the erosion that has occurred in the last few years of the poor management of the People's Party at the head of the Ministry of the Interior. It is never much that we are a safe country precisely because of the work of the Police and the Civil Guard. Separate bodies, with different functions and deployments but with a common goal of preserving our security and freedoms. Throughout Europe they envy its functioning, so our obligation is to ensure that all these people are rewarded for their work, and in this sense we have to acknowledge that in recent years, as it has happened with other groups of officials, our guards and police have seen how they lost purchasing power. Solutions adopted under no circumstances should generate new conflicts between these two bodies of State security. The good work of the police and the Civil Guard is the mark of Spain, of the good, it is the difference for the good of the rest of European countries. So, so that this situation does not deteriorate, we ask the Government to correct the disastrous management that the People's Party has been developing since 2012 in terms of coordination and cooperation between the two bodies. The Ministry of the Interior has to repair once and for all the damage done by the previous ministerial team, which understood coordination between the two bodies as unbridled competition and collaboration as confrontation. But this is not the issue that was overly concerned either the former Director General of the Police or the Civil Guard. The first, Mr. Cosidó, was to live immersed in something similar to a spy film, busy in espionage and investigating any possible adversary of the PP, with a clique that acted as a political police officer and encouraged the partisan work of a brigade of analysis and review of very special cases, created illegally, in our opinion. And Mr. Fernández de Mesa in the Civil Guard was only concerned to pass to posterity in a painting, looking at the band of the Great Naval Cross, with the colors of our flag, gloves, medal in the sin and command stick. [[Applauds]] The profusion of oropelles is such that we are very surprised that the picture is not an equestrian portrait. I think that showing up on horseback would have been more appropriate to reflect the true image that the former Director General of the Civil Guard, Mr Fernández de Mesa, had of himself. I ended up defending the amendment tabled by my group to this motion. We therefore call for the convening, within a maximum of fifteen days, of an extraordinary plenary session of the Civil Guard Council to deal with the serious errors caused by the payment of salaries to thousands of guards. It was already requested in form, but arbitrarily denied, in our opinion. What we are asking of the Government is nothing of the other world, we call for compliance with the 2007 Organic Law regulating the rights and duties of the Civil Guard, which says that it is necessary to accompany the values and guidelines of an armed institute of a military nature with the daily development of basically police functions, linked to a dynamic, innovative and jealous society of their democratic rights, such as that of this Spain of the 21st century. In addition, the Act assigns to the council the functions of analysing and evaluating proposals made by the civil guards on the personnel regime or on their rights. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that this law on rights and duties contains many powers that the Ministry of the Interior is ignoring or denying. Since 2012, they have been limiting the council's potential, and that seems very serious to us. The powers of a body of participation cannot be restricted to the point of becoming a body of frustration. In order to avoid all this, I ask you to vote on this motion and on the Socialist amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u119	Thank you very much, Mr Trevín. Mr Martín-Toledano Suárez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u120	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to make it clear and clear that the People's Group is and will always be in favour of and in coordination with the Government and the Ministry of the Interior to improve the working conditions and all kinds of conditions that the Civil Guard and the National Police need. I would also like to greet some representatives of the Civil Guard associations, invited to Congress today, and I would like to transfer from the People's Group to all the civil guards respect and consideration for their great work. The Civil Guard is essential together with the National Police in the preservation of citizen security. They have done a commendable job, a job that needs to be valued because they have been fundamental to ending ETA terrorism and many criminal mafias. To solve the problems first you have to know them, so I personally and other members of my group have met not once but several times with representatives of the associations of the Civil Guard and have participated even in open acts to their associates where we have discussed the problems that the Civil Guard suffers face to face, because to be able to solve them you have to know them. One of those problems that raised us was the difference in the specific unique complements that they believe there is with regard to the National Police, and we committed ourselves - and we commit ourselves - to talking to the Government so that the first thing that is done is a serious study - I think we share it all - rigorous and up-to-date of the working conditions of all the jobs of the Civil Guard and the National Police to detect possible pay differences in these complements. It is a job that needs to be done urgently. It is not the only problem that the Civil Guard has, but our group understands, and so we have transferred it to its representatives, that first we have to detect the problem; second, to see what means are necessary to be able to solve them and, third, to set a timetable of priorities in order to be able to carry them out because we know - and no one can deny - that all these problems cannot be tackled jointly and at a stroke. Priorities must be studied and these reforms must be progressively implemented. These problems suffered by the Civil Guard are not new, they are problems that are already dragged from the past, in particular from the specific complements, that of an improvement of the complements of the National Police affected by the Socialist Government in 2007 and that did not apply to the Civil Guard in 2008 despite the commitment it had established. Economic crisis problems were argued - and indeed they were - and could not be tackled, but I do not think it would be appropriate for the Socialist Group to reproach the People's Group and the People's Party for this problem, because it was created by the Socialist Party itself. When the State Security Forces and Bodies lost purchasing power it was with the Royal Decree of 2010 where the Government of Zapatero reduced the salaries of public employees by an average of 5 per cent. That's where that loss of purchasing power occurs. As for the error in paying the Civil Guard payroll, the minister has already given explanations in Congress, and we agree that the Civil Guard council is meeting. It is not going to be as the Socialist Group wants because there is a compromise: it will not be on an extraordinary council, it will be on an ordinary council to be held before March because there is no point in having two councils in less than ten days. The People's Group certainly believes that the Citizens' motion is well-intentioned, but it should be improved. That is why we tabled an amendment which sought to modify some aspects and some phrases that could make it impossible to comply with what is desired, which is to improve the salaries of the Civil Guard by means of the unique specific complements, while at the same time promoting another issue which has been rejected but which we consider essential, and which is that the staffing of the State Security Forces and Bodies should be gradually increased by means of a public offer. It is not going to be included in the transaction, but we are going to make it a priority of the People's Group. We agree with some of those who have spoken here today. You can't face police forces, we shouldn't fall for it. Demagogy cannot be done, nor can partisan use be made of the solution of real problems that exist. Dialogue, consensus and responsibility must be accepted to resolve the problem that has existed for so many years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u121	Thank you very much, Mr Martin-Toledano. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u122	I will speak from the seat, Mr President, because I will do so briefly. Two issues. On the very subject of the motion, our group is guided by a general principle, and if there are elements of equality, the consequence should be equal treatment. Let the matter be considered and whether this conclusion is actually reached. Secondly, taking the foot that the spokesman of the People's Group has introduced, they know that the Basque Government is concerned about the question of the staffing of the Ertzaintza. We have it frozen, we have a lot of retirements, and also in the Basque Country security is compromised by this issue. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Gutiérrez, I'm going to tell you straight away. Anything to improve the socio-occupational conditions of the Civil Guard workers will always be supported by us, too, today. We're going to vote yes. Having said that, I am afraid, because of this initiative that your Citizens' Group is presenting here today, that you intend to follow the same path that the People's Party and the Socialist Party have followed during these years, that is, much to acknowledge the work of the agents, much to praise the institution, and then everything remains in a toast to the sun. I say this because when an amendment to the State General Budgets was tabled in the Senate to equate the Civil Guard salaries with those of the National Police, you voted against it. Of course, yes, and now you come here to say that the socio-occupational conditions must be improved for the civilian guards. Of course you did, but can you explain to me why you then voted against in the Senate? Well, I'll tell you. That amendment, had it been adopted, would have been binding and binding. This one that you present here today, even if approved by a majority, is a toast to the sun. This may be good for you to take a picture, for a headline, but that one wasn't, that one was the good one. I'll give you an example. In 2009 a non-law proposal was passed in this same House for the Government to readmit Sergeant José Morata, who was expelled from the Civil Guard in 1997 for trying to set up a union. Twenty years later our colleague José Morata continues to look forward to justice and dignity. And that that non-law proposal was unanimous. We really want the one. In this regard, I announce that we are going to table an amendment to the next General Budgets of the State in order to equate - I insist, indeed - the salaries of the Civil Guard with those of the Police, but this time I hope that you will vote in favour and against. For the civil guards are already fed up with these strategies; they are full of praise and promises; they are fed up with being singled out by one and the other; that their legal and legitimate representatives be persecuted. Since 2004, more than three hundred files have been opened to civilian guards for serious and very serious offences, only for the use of freedom of expression. They are tired of developing their work without means, without bulletproof vests, in inadequate dependencies and when not in ruins, of working without clear protocols of action that allow them to do their work properly and with legal guarantees, as it is in the case of Ceuta and Melilla. They are fed up with their effort and sacrifice for some chiefs to fill their medals. They are tired of the fact that those who are on the street are the worst paid in salary except, that is, the elite of the Civil Guard and I mean the dome of the Civil Guard, the high commanders, the generals, who are the best paid of all the police forces in this state. Ladies and gentlemen, it's all right. The civil guards do not want us to come here to claim and claim for them; what they want is dignity and that we provide them with guarantees so that they themselves can claim their professional dignity. We must allow democracy, with all its rights, to enter the Civil Guard barracks because that is highly healthy for the agents and for society. [[Applauds]] I am referring to the non-application of the Military Penal Code, to the recognition of the trade union right which you did not support, gentlemen of Citizens. Finally, it is about changing some laws and it is a matter of political will. These two simple initiatives could advance on the rest of the issues: fair pay, ending the rights gap, establishing a decent working day and a plan to reduce the high suicide rate in the Civil Guard. Look, every twenty-six days a civilian guard kills himself. Not everything is money, not everything is solved with money. In short, we do not seek a photo or a headline, we seek to dignify the employment of the Civil Guard workers. But still, and although we know that this is not going to do much good, we will vote yes to make clear our commitment to the workers and to the Civil Guard workers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Delgado. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I have to ask Mr Gutiérrez Vivas whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. We are drafting a compromise amendment that will be signed by some groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u127	I hope that they will send it to the Bureau as soon as they have it. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United Nations may, in common, in MARIA, to know whether the Government intends to transpose Directive 2014/17/EU of 4 February 2014 to improve THE MEASURES TO PROTECT CONSUMER AND TRANSPARENCY OF HYPOTECARY CREDITS, AND TO COMPLY WITH MISCELLANEOUS JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE EUROPEAN UNION IN CONNECTION WITH THE PROCEDURES FOR HYPOTECARY EXECUTIONS IN SPAIN. [[File number 173/000014]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u128	It is then appropriate to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to know whether the Government intends to transpose Directive 2014/17 of the European Union of 4 February 2014 to improve consumer protection measures and transparency of mortgage claims, as well as to comply with various judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in relation to mortgage enforcement procedures in Spain. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u129	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome the good attitude and predisposition of all groups to be able to dialogue on the points raised by our motion. We understood that there were different views on a number of issues raised and we are going to propose the point vote. We believe, moreover, that it can serve to clarify to the Spanish public matters that affect central issues in the life of our country. First of all, we have come to the point that financial abuses have been committed in our country, which have led to a crisis that has been a real scam on the social majority of our country. We don't say it, we don't say it. The other day the minister asked me whether I dared to maintain that the right to effective judicial protection and the right to defence had been violated in our country's courts and, in fact, nothing further than my intention, I have not said, has been said by the Court of Justice of the European Union in repeated judgments. [[Applauds]] I invite you to read them, the Aziz case, Sánchez Morcillo, Penalva, early maturity, ground clause... They have to choose and see where all these human rights have been violated. To that extent, we believed that it was necessary to clarify all those abuses that had occurred. That is why we have proposed that, in the event of human rights violations, international human rights law - truth, justice and reparation - must be complied with and, at the same time, we registered at the beginning of January a request for the establishment of a commission of inquiry on financial abuses and the financial crisis so that it can be brought to the attention of this House. In fact, I was very surprised that the Minister in the interpellation did not know what a subprime was, having been the director of Lehman Brothers. For Lehman Brothers appeared at the U.S. Congress to see what they had done with the subprime. Therefore, the only thing we raise is something similar to what the entity for which this gentleman was working had to do. We find it particularly interesting that we are able to acquire the commitment of compliance with the law, of compliance with the sentences. It's simple, to stop skipping the law because it's putting the country in jeopardy. Limiting liability to mortgaged property, we have again seen that there is no agreement. It seems that there are a number of groups that agree to comply with general comment 7 of the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, which prohibits forced evictions without a housing alternative, we do not know if it will have sufficient majority. At the same time, I would like to thank all the groups for their willingness to inform us, at last, of something that is of significance to the whole of Spanish society, which is the fact that the repeated violation of European law, which has been confirmed in repeated judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, has resulted in the opening of a sanctioning procedure against our country. In 2015, the Commissioner of Justice was already threatening the possibility of opening this sanctioning procedure - she said: if Spain does not comply with the same sentences it is necessary to open a sanctioning procedure - for things as simple as if a person in our country has sued his bank for, for example, a ground clause, that is, the bank owes him money, that the bank cannot execute him, cannot apply a mortgage execution procedure, something as simple as that someone is not executed when the bank owes him the money. We have not been able since 2013 to transpose that sentence and to comply with the Aziz judgment in its terms. [[Applauds]] What does that do? That puts our country in danger. Faced with this kind of information published by the ABC newspaper - which is not precisely a leftist newspaper - in April 2016, we put an oral question to Mr De Guindos in Parliament, an inquiry to Mr De Guindos and this morning we asked Mr Moragas in the Committee on National Security about the security and stability of the financial system, and we remain unanswered. We want to thank the will of all the groups to clarify whether our country is in danger because this government has implemented legislation in favour of banks by bypassing European legislation. [[Applauds]] I think the Spanish and the Spanish have a right to know. To that extent, we and we believed that when we were talking about human rights violations, we might be looking at ourselves strangely. I would like to recommend to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and in particular to the Minister, a very interesting reading, very interesting, very interesting, which is the opinion of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, under the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant, Communication 2/2014, where, first of all, it recommends the amendment of Spanish mortgage legislation for violation of fundamental rights, but also asks the Government to publish it. The truth is, it is a pity that the minister did not know that there is an opinion that in court proceedings communications are not made by the BOE, but that they are communicated with all guarantees to the justiciable. I am very sorry that these kinds of resolutions are not known and are binding on the State. To that extent, I can recommend the judgments of the Court of Justice. With regard to human rights violations, he could give them the two reports of the Platform of those affected by the mortgage, where human rights violations were reported in Spain. But they will say: They are people who fight and defend human rights on the street, and perhaps they are not worth it; then I recommend to you the report that Amnesty International has issued, which I believe is worth them, and the Human Rights Watch report, perhaps it is also worth it. That is to say, different human rights agencies report that in our country, the rights of individuals to protect financial institutions have been systematically violated and our country has been put at risk. [[The lady]] I am grateful to all the groups for allowing this incognito to be clarified once and for all, whether or not there is a sanctioning procedure against Spain because the Government has legislated in favour of financial institutions and against the rights of its citizens. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that if there is a sanction it will not be paid either by the Botín or the González, it will be paid by the working people of our country and that is absolutely unacceptable. It is therefore important that the transposition of judgments and directives be started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u130	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u131	Thirty seconds. The other day the Minister told us about the transposition of the directives. There are dozens of months in which the Government has had the time available before the elections on 20 December to transpose the mortgage directives. And they haven't. They have not done so because there was no will, because there was the will to protect the people who have abused the people of our country: financial institutions, speculators, banks and vulture funds. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u132	For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca is speaking first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. The content of this questionable motion is such an extension and complexity that it makes it impossible to analyse in one hour each of the ten chapters that the parliamentary group of Mr Mayoral submits to the plenary. The revolutionutum is of such magnitude that it dilutes absolutely what for Forum should be the main object of an initiative that spoke of the Spanish mortgage system. A system that undoubtedly needs a revision that allows the amendment of the Mortgage Law of 1946, so that in the case of mortgages on housing the principle of universal liability is altered by the latter only on the mortgaged property. I have tabled an amendment that focuses on what, in our view, should be treated as a priority in order that, in the case of mortgage guarantees, mortgages should be held accountable for the secured obligation, at least when a number of circumstances arise. Finally, in view of the preparation of a new housing plan within ten months, we intend to see it be the result of a very broad administrative, political, social and sectoral consensus to meet the constitutional mandate of access to decent housing, and to include, among other aspects, specific aid to the most vulnerable people and groups. We are in the final analysis, Madam President, a state of law, in Spain the law is being complied with, and it seems to us that Mr Mayoral's considerations expressed in the rostrum are pure astounding and therefore we trust the Spanish state of law. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u134	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Xuclà has the floor. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u135	Thank you very much. In one minute it is very easy to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in favour of compliance with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union from 2013 to 2017, which have reiterated that it is not a matter of discussion or seminar, but simply a regulation to which the Spanish State is subject must be complied. We have tabled an amendment to respect the autonomous framework. I also have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that we would have to have transposed the 2013 Directive on consumer protection into Spanish law before 21 March 2016, although the Consumer Code approved by the Parliament of Catalonia has to a large extent already incorporated that directive on consumer protection, in the light of the legislative inoperation by the Spanish Government. In conclusion, Madam President, we very much agree, and we would like to emphasise this, with point 10: The Government must inform the Spanish Chambers and public opinion of whether there is any sanction procedure against the Spanish State for breach of Directive 90/2013. We cannot hide reality from public opinion and this Parliament. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u136	Thank you very much. I give the floor, also by the Joint Group, to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u137	The Government's unwillingness to defend consumers against banking is more than obvious. This is demonstrated by the 1993 directive, which is the cornerstone of the protection system. Its transposition was carried out three and a half years later than the established deadline and it was done without making the corresponding changes in the Civil Prosecution Act, which did not stop the abuses and that led hundreds of thousands of executed mortgages to lose their housing and to thicken files of late ones that have turned them into social excluded. The Aziz ruling forced changes so that they could oppose executions for the existence of abusive clauses, but they were only given ten days and published in the BOE. How many evicted read the BOE? Reforms have been made to disturb the banking sector as little as possible and have left thousands of people without being able to defend themselves, without housing, with an unpayable debt and without a future. Many, if the reforms had been made in time, would not have lost their homes. A retroactive payment, a moratorium on evictions, is therefore necessary. There is an urgent need for an affordable housing policy, for decent social housing, to ensure minimum supplies if we want housing to be what the role says: a basic right. That's what the anti-discharge platforms have been asking for for for years and there's the solution.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u138	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u139	I conclude by saying that it is shameful to hear the minister say that the system works because 80% has a home on their own, when there are more empty homes than ever before, and when there are more people than ever without a home. That is why we will support the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u140	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u141	Capitalism of friends. This is the name that can be given to the economic system that still rules in Spain. Bank abuse, omission of controls, unfavourable procedural legislation for consumers, speculation, inefficiency of companies with oligopoly dyes, all of them are elements that amalgamate in the ubiquitous cement of corruption. What a systematic disregard for the Constitution, article 47, which speaks of housing; article 33, which speaks of the social role of property; article 51, which protects consumers and users; and, above all, what contempt for the dignity of individuals. How difficult it is for many people to get out of this crisis that does not end! And what are we going to say to the tens of thousands of families that are devastated by the savage application of evictions and all the pressure measures that we put in the hands of the bank, that same bank to whose rescue - we say again - we have dedicated more than 60 billion euros. The motion we have here is embarrassing, because it is shameful that the Government must now be told to comply with the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, to incorporate Community directives into our legislative acquis, to give just defence to the destitute; in short, to incorporate transparency into economic relations in our country.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u142	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u143	We must support this motion because it is time for us to get out of this bubble that prevents us from moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u144	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious, the title of this motion is whether a directive, which is Directive 2014/17 of the European Union, is to be transposed. Minister De Guindos said the other day that they were going to transpose it, but one goes to the website of the Ministry of Economy, in particular that of the General Secretariat of the Treasury, and sees that there is a preliminary draft of a law regulating real estate contracts, which says in its article 1 that it is to transpose this directive. On the other hand, with regard to transposing the directive, if it is not done in time, this directive, as part of Community law, has direct effect and can therefore be invoked by the defendants. Of course, we do believe that the Spanish courts pay attention to the Court of Justice of the European Union and that they therefore apply their judgments, as has in fact been seen in the matter of ground clauses. In this sense, we would ask for seriousness, because we are talking about the principles of truth, justice, reparation and non-repetition, but if you look for them in Google the answer that comes out is that they are the inspiring principles of the agreement between the Colombian government and the terrorist narco-guerrilla of the FARC, and it seems to me that they are issues that have nothing to do with the Spanish mortgage system. [[Applauds]] We have tabled an amendment, which has already been communicated to us by the Parliamentary Group. We may not accept it, concerning amending this point and two more of this motion. In any case, if they are not accepted, we will ask for the vote on points because there are points with which we do not agree - on which I will now insist a little bit more - but there are others that seem acceptable to us. On the other hand, since Mr Mayor said that the directives had not been transposed since 20 December, I would like to make a point to say that if the Government is in office it cannot submit bills. The Citizens Group is collaborating in transposing these directives and some of the pre-projects can be found on the Ministry's website. With what we do not agree, we have amended and will vote against it is, for example, to confuse - in point 5 - the guarantee on mortgages with the liability of a debtor for all his present and future assets. Obviously, this may be limited, but, by the way, the debtor's liability for all assets present and future is not in the Mortgage Law, it is in article 1911 of the Civil Code, which would have to be amended. On the other hand, it seems to us that liability can be limited by agreement, but if it is done indiscriminately, all debtors will pay the credits more expensive. Another questionable point is that empty floors should necessarily be put on social rent. It seems good to me, but this, after all, is an expropriation in accordance with article 33 of the Constitution and in our country this has to be justified and systems must be arbitrated to finance it. Therefore, we are not in favour either. On the other hand, we believe that European directives and European law prevail and that they must be transposed. We also consider, of course, that the sentences must be complied with. We are therefore very much in favour of the motion on those substantial points. We are also in favour of the Government informing the Kingdom of Spain as to whether there are currently sanctioning dossiers open to it for failing to transpose directives, but I would also ask the Group to do so, because there is another directive that is pending transposition, which is the Contracts Act, which comes here last morning and you have tabled an amendment to the whole without alternative text; that is, you do not agree with the transposition and you want the Government not to transpose it. We believe that all European law must be transposed because it is compulsory. In short, since we are not allowed the amendments, we are going to ask for a point vote. We believe that the Spanish mortgage system and the real estate credit system have had serious failures and must be corrected. We must work to resolve this, for example, with our proposal contained in the investiture agreement to create an independent authority to ensure that the financial consumer cooperates as far as possible and does not submit refund amendments in the transposition of the European directives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u146	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Botella Gómez has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, before Mrs Botella Gómez starts, I would ask you to please hold your seats or, if not, leave the Chamber. I remind you, in case anyone is not listening to me or does not want to listen to me, Mr Vera!, that an hour of plenary time is missing and that we must remain silent. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u147	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion put before us by the Confederal Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for Europe could be said to have a mark on the house. It is a subject of great social interest and has a media interpretation that generates many expectations, but then comes a motion that does not always end in good port. It has many points, mixes European as well as national, autonomous or local issues and competences, and in the end it turns out to be a kind of closet bottom of the group's great arguments, which pull out and unite everything, but from our point of view it lacks rigour to be able to address them with the dimension they require. In any case, our will has been from the very first moment on to unravel this ten-point relationship, which was the points to be agreed on, and we have made two considerations. First. We start from the idea that this motion is full of good intentions, but right now, with a government like that of the People's Party, it is still a toast to the sun. Ladies and gentlemen, if you had the opportunity to vote for a socialist president, this motion would now be a law. [[Applauds]] This would be so. In fact, in the autonomous communities in which we are ruling much of these measures are law. You don't need to remember it because in some of us we have had your support: in Andalusia, in the Valencian Community, even in the Basque Country, on a proposal... [[Majoral Perales speaks words that are not perceived]] Well, if we didn't count on her support, in Andalusia we pulled her out. These are laws that help solve the specific problems, problems that appear very mixed in this motion; they are very recent laws that establish measures to curb the mortgage drama and eviction, which affects thousands of people; to regulate the subjective right of access to housing; to link ownership to the social role of housing; to promote public housing; to penalize empty housing; to regulate aid to prevent energy poverty. All this is what, for example, has just been passed in a law in the Valencian Community, of which the president, Ximo Puig, has said with legitimate pride that it is one of the most advanced housing laws in Spain. To this we refer; these laws, Andalusian and that of the Valencian Community, are the strong testimonies of how socialists govern and want to transform reality in defense of the general interest, in defense of the most unprotected and in accordance with the legitimate demands of society, in the hands of those who are particularly affected by these causes, such as the platforms of those affected by the mortgage. All this in the face of a Government of the People's Party that has used up to five times these new laws of housing law in the autonomous communities. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, we Socialists are not going to settle for the sun's toasts to this type of motion. The second consideration mentions another kind of question that you raise, which is going to be taken up as a future mortgage credit law, something that the minister has already put forward here on the occasion of the inquiry and which is fully in line with the transposition of Directive 2014/17 of the European Union. We believe that this moment of transposition of the directive is a time to work intensively to improve the mortgage structure in Spain and that the objective of the directive is not only to match the wishes and wishes of consumers, but also of all financial intermediaries: to advance the achievement of a single market, to increase consumer protection, to promote responsible lending and to reduce the embargoes and the execution of mortgages. This is the task on which we have to employ ourselves and which must focus beyond these motions, which continue to be a toast to the sun. The Socialist Group is firmly committed to measures that improve consumer protection and ensure the transparency of mortgage claims, of course with the requirement of compliance with European legislation and the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which have brought a ray of hope and justice to consumers. I'm done. I announce that, as this motion was raised, we could not support it. We have tabled a number of amendments which have not been accepted either. Our willingness to contribute to anything that improves consumers will be reflected in the vote, which we ask to be by points and we will vote in favour of those that we believe can now contribute something to society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u148	Thank you very much. Position-fixing turn. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is true that the uncertainty that has been affecting the execution of the mortgage has ended up moving mainly to the stage of the creation of the mortgage, so that in recent years it has been seen that clauses whose legality until recently was undisputed should not be included in the writing. The Supreme Court and the European courts have questioned their own mortgage legislation. These vavenes make it necessary and urgent - this is something I would like to underline from here - a regulatory reform that gives effective protection to the consumer. On the other hand, we cannot settle for ad hoc remedies in the face of injustices that have caused in some cases very complicated situations; many people, due to the shock of the crisis, have lost their jobs, their habitual housing, etc., with all the consequences of marginalization and social exclusion that have occurred in some cases. It is therefore necessary to address a thorough reform that is brought up to date with European legislation and is appropriate to social needs. However, the motion resulting from the interpellation is one more patch, I would say that a patch besides nothing concrete, but very generalistic. We believe that the reform of the Mortgage Law must be addressed and, of course, we want the minister to fulfil his promise to bring that reform here in a short time; of course, my parliamentary group will demand it. But in the motion put forward, the only thing that is done is very generalistic mentions, there are no concrete proposals with practical solutions on a subject of such importance. The new mortgage regulation and other related laws will have to transpose the Community directive and we will have to pay attention to the strengthening of transparency in mortgages, the elimination of charges for early repayment, payment in payment, limitation of interest on arrears, the establishment of a reasonable period of time before an eviction, the elimination of cross-selling or related. These are situations of social emergency in which the necessary coordination mechanisms must be established in order to avoid the suspension of basic services and this requires coordination - I would also like to stress this - of the various levels of competence, because it is not this House, nor is it only the Government of the State, that has these powers. The energy sector will have to be regulated by identifying and protecting vulnerable consumers, yes, but in the meantime social measures must be put in place to address the difficulties of access to basic services. The motion is a series of patches, of unrelated matters that are presented to us in a very general way, without concrete measures, and in that sense some of the points may have our acquiescence, but as a whole we believe that it will not achieve the desired objective nor is it correct in all the points that appear in it. We must make progress, yes, in mortgage legislation, in consumer protection, in compliance with the observations contained in the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, but we must move away from the big slogans and, above all, ensure that public office conduct does not disrupt the defence of groups that may be in a situation of vulnerability and that all guarantees for them are demanded. Because, of course, here you can go out to the gallery to demand a lot, to ask a lot, but there is evidence of that claim, for example, when a senator does not pay the rent of a public rental apartment and does not communicate her new situation in relation to her right to that apartment and the perception of the security income. And you have not said nor mu, here nothing happens; however, you come out here as if it were the paladins. I think we have to set an example because it takes away legitimacy. [[Rumors]] I haven't heard a single word yet and the case exists and has occurred. Therefore, in the face of such contradiction, do not expect us to vote enthusiastically on your points. To some of them, which may seem logical to us, we will vote affirmatively, but, I insist, as they are raised, they are ineffective. And, of course, what is not good is a lot of screaming in the rostrum and then, on a day-to-day basis, in the attitudes of public officials, doing exactly the opposite. That's bloody, and that takes away legitimacy. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Mr.Major Perales utters words that are not perceived.-Mr.Esteban Bravo: If you hadn't introduced him, I wouldn't have said it, but as you have introduced him...]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u150	Thank you very much. Mrs Surra Spadea has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u151	Thank you, Madam President. [[Mayors Perales and Esteban Bravo continue to speak to each other]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u152	One second, Your Honor. Mr. Mayor and Mr. Esteban! [[Majoral Perales speaks words that are not perceived]] Mr. Mayoral. Mr. Mayor! Mr. Mayor, I'm calling you to order! [[Mr. Mayor Perales continues to speak]] Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, no one can be surprised at the fact that the Catalan Republicans are always with the humblest in the Spanish state. To support the richest are already the PP, Citizens and the manager's crutch. The payment, the cancellation of the debt with the delivery of the mortgaged property, practically non-existent in the Spanish State, is included unconditionally in the European directive which obliges the reform of the Mortgage Law. The Government of Rajoy and De Guindos had to have adopted that directive by 21 March 2016. It has not yet done so and could be punished for it. Citizens and the manager do not bother the Government on this issue at all. The Spanish Mortgage Law is a French law, derived from a decree of 1946, whose application has allowed financial institutions to scam millions of customers: mortgage expenses, ground clauses, etc., and to expel hundreds of thousands of families from their homes, especially from the mortgage bubble that began at the end of the 1990s. According to data from the General Council of the Judiciary, more than half a million evictions have been accumulated since the crisis began in 2007, accounting for more than 500 a day in a few years. Half a thousand daily dramas involving neglected dependants, physical and mental illnesses, gender-based violence, children without school, family breakdown, suicides. Those affected by the mortgage amount to more than 700,000 foreclosures. In short, millions of empty homes while there are thousands of people on the street. Millions of public euros to rescue banks without requiring them to guarantee the right of their Constitution to decent housing. The Directive in question is the 2014/17 of the EU, the European Parliament and the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements concluded with consumers for residential real estate. In its Article 28, the directive, which should already be adopted, literally states in point 4 that Member States will not prevent the parties to a credit agreement from expressly agreeing that the transfer of the guarantee or proceeds arising from the sale of the guarantee to the lender is sufficient to reimburse the credit. The Court of Justice of the European Union declares null and void the clause on which all foreclosures have been based. Subsequently, as early as January 2017, another sanction came from the Court of Justice of the European Union, which says that the early maturity clause for mortgages is illegal and void. It is the clause that allows the bank to claim the entire outstanding debt plus the corresponding interest once they have stopped paying three installments, forgetting that many families - including many immigrant families - came to pay more than 1,000 euros a month to get the dream of a home of their own. The People's Party government spends the day talking about the law, with its citizens' accomplices and the manager, but there is something more important than the law and it is justice. You represent the kingdom of injustice. We fight for a republic with social justice, so there is no law, no constitution, no dialogue, no one who convinces us that we should abandon our struggle for a republic with social justice. [[Rumors]] Clearer, pour him some water. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u154	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u155	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea presents to this House a motion resulting from urgent questioning to the Government of Spain, a motion that our group is not going to support and that I am going to try to dismantle in its arguments, and I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it will be easy for me because the aim of the motion is not to improve our legislation, as we will then discover, but, as always, to continue with its campaign of contempt for various objectives that contribute to their electoral target. The main objective of the directive they are proposing to transpose, and which the Government had already communicated before its submission that it was going to do so, is to make progress towards a single mortgage credit market and to increase consumer protection. At the same time, the responsible granting of credit by financial institutions is promoted with the ultimate aim of reducing mortgage embargoes and executions. Finally, cross-selling is also prevented, for example, from allowing entities to grant a mortgage to purchase parallel products such as insurance, pension plans, etc. Part of these objectives have already been legislated and the rest will be done in the new reform that - I remind you again - the minister has already confirmed that it is being prepared. First of all, I would like to point out that in Spain more than 80% of families have property. There are things that have not been done well - perfect - but there are many other things that have been done well. If not, how come we own this housing stock well above the European average? And how is the number of mortgages granted growing at a rate of 30%? For something it will be. The Minister of the Economy has already detailed even in the urgent inquiry, presented by his group and which was debated on the 1st of this month, the scope of the amendments that are planned to be made in the new regulation. I am not going to tell you again what is going to be done, just to point out that it is going to go beyond the changes that the directive promotes and that the Minister has requested all those contributions that will improve the articulation and that consensus has been offered to all the parliamentary groups. - By the way, I haven't heard any proposals today. With regard to judgements, for example, in the case of 2013, the Government legislated it two months after it was handed down. In the case of the judgment of July 2014, it was a year later. The October 2015 judgment will be covered by the new law, and the December 2016 judgment does not imply legislative change and a decree-law has already been passed to have an out-of-court procedure. As for last January's ruling, the Government has already anticipated the 2013 reform, limiting the interest of delay to three times the legal interest of the money and, therefore, we are implementing the sentences, some in advance. The transposition of the European directive will take place. We established a code of good practice in 2012, and last month we adopted Royal Decree-Law 1/2017, on urgent consumer protection measures in the area of soil clauses. As I said, we cannot support a motion calling for legislation on non-existent situations, as in the case of alleged impunity. Nor can we support the fact that the guarantee of limited liability to the amount of mortgaged assets is mandatory, because it would make most of the applications impossible and would disarm this market which has had such good data and good results for Spain. I would like to remind you that this limitation on liability can already be agreed. With regard to point 8, I would like to inform you that the definition of consumer laid down in Spanish law is the one that strictly marks the European directives. With regard to point number 4, we are already doing so. The 2013 Act has already determined the immediate suspension of evictions for a period of two years for families at particular risk of exclusion. This suspension was extended in 2015, in Law 25, and the Minister of Economy, last day 1, noted that the Government is willing to extend the suspension of evictions, as it did in 2015. In addition, there have been other measures such as the establishment of the Social Housing Fund, the Code of Good Practice and social rental subsidies included in the Housing Plan. On point 7, I do not know the reason for its inclusion in this motion, since it has nothing to do with the subject being raised, except that it is the same objective in itself of the initiative which, as we are seeing, is not to legislate or improve our legislation. And of course we do not support point 6 because it is contrary to article 33 of our Constitution. In addition, there is a ruling of the Constitutional Court on this case, in 2015, which confirms this impossibility. Secondly, because it would have very negative consequences for our economy, for our credibility and, therefore, for our well-being. I would remind you at this point that the motion calls for the possibility of expropriating housing. I find it curious that some parties have not tabled any amendments to this point of the motion, and in particular that the Democratic Party supports it, because I believe that its drift is around infinity. By presenting it in parts - by points, as you have said -,...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u156	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u157	...we will support those points that are already being carried out or that have been said in this Parliament that are going to be carried out. The fundamental differences between you and us are two: everything you propose is in front of the gallery, everything is a show directed towards your supporters, towards your collectives, towards your fans. You focus on a goal that brings you that concept of power against which to fight or simulate you fight. Even in a question asked to the Minister of Finance they came to ask about Cristiano Ronaldo; whether this is usually a show. Meanwhile, we are working to improve the lives of the Spaniards - even the people - and we are doing so by reforming and legislating - for example, by transposing European directives - while you want to transpose into our country laws implemented in countries that do not respect individual freedom and fundamental rights, countries in which their policies have led them to economic ruin. Meanwhile, the Government that this parliamentary group supports has managed to rescue us from the greatest economic crisis in recent decades, has managed to restore hope to most companies and most Spaniards, and has achieved unanimous international recognition of their management and reform agenda. These are the differences between you and us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u158	I ask Mr Perales whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u159	No, for points.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u160	Thank you very much. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the reasons for the lack of forecasting and the decoordination of the Government and the insufficiency of marketable devices to avoid the consequences that have affected thousands of Spanish citizens, on the occasion of the Cold and Nine Times last week. [[File number 173/000015]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u161	We shall now proceed to discuss the motion following an inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the reasons for the lack of forecasting and the government's lack of coordination and the inadequacy of the mechanisms put in place to avoid the consequences that thousands of Spanish citizens have suffered during the cold and snow storm over the past week. Mr González Ramos has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u162	Thank you, Madam President. We said just a couple of weeks ago in this very rostrum during the interpellation that the Government, in particular the Minister of Development, has made clear their inability to coordinate a situation of copious snowfalls, a situation that had been announced by the State Meteorology Agency, which warned of the risk of snowfalls and other adverse weather phenomena for the southeast peninsula and the Balearic Islands. The Aemet technicians were right with their predictions: the day was announced, the snow quota and the minimum temperatures were to be reached, so neither I nor my group nor many citizens came to understand whether the minister was not aware of the weather information, whether he listened deafly to that information or simply decided that his ministry would not do what was required by the expected situation. Valencia's main connections with the provinces of Cuenca, Albacete and Teruel were completely cut off. A total of fourteen Spanish provinces were affected by road traffic cuts on the national or autonomous network. In addition, five trains from the high-speed line between Madrid, Castilla-La Mancha, the Valencian Community and the Region of Murcia - Madrid-Levante -, with about 1,500 passengers, were left standing in the province of Albacete. In the long and medium distance they were affected in the area of Levante at least 18 trains and 2,206 passengers. As a result of the cuts on trains and roads, thousands of citizens had to spend the night on the road in different places of Valencia, Murcia, Cuenca and Albacete. In this country we do not remember in decades a chaos of these characteristics, clearly showing the mismanagement, unforeseeableness and uncoordinatedness in the face of an unforeseen weather phenomenon, because the exceptional was not the fact of the snows - as the minister shielded - the exceptional was that the government delegate did not accept until the evening of the 20th the media of the Valencian Government when 1,500 drivers had already been trapped for more than six hours on the highway; the exceptional was that, because of the lack of preview of the Ministry of the Interior, the Civil Guard was sent to help the citizens with few troops, scarce means and without any information, with days of twelve hours of work in extreme situations and putting their lives in jeopardy - This does not say the Socialist Party, but the Unified Association of the Civil Guard -; the exceptional was the poor management carried out by Renfe and ADIF of the situation produced in the Levante line, in which they were given many hours to prepare an effective contingency plan without providing enough train of railways in the known condition of railways. We insist, we insist, on the serious damage caused by the cuts in Mr Rajoy's government that have led to a loss of essential public services. The PSOE says so, but so do the workers themselves. This is explicit in the communiqués of the workers' trade union representatives. This is explicit in the statement by the trade union representatives, workers who are with us today - such as Juan and Miguel Ángel, who accompany us in the gallery this afternoon - of the sectors of conservation and exploitation of the A-3 motorway in the Valencian Community, sector V2 and sector V6, where they show - I quote in text - that the technical and human means to deal with this type of incidence, as well as the snow removal from the road, are insufficient due to the cuts that have been made and to which the recent tender is being submitted. The statement goes on to say that all this has a serious impact, and that in the face of some accident or incident of these routes - referring to human lives - the type of reaction is increased and the time of care and assistance to the victims is delayed. However, this precarious situation in the media and human resources has already been revealed also in an office of the Roads Demarcation of the State of the Valencian Community, dated at the end of November 2015, and in reference to the reduction of the budget in sectors V2 and V6. This trade said - I quote literally again - that the damage caused to these contracts will have a negative impact on the service offered to users of the road, for example, because of the greater distance between the surveillance routes and the maintenance of the state of conservation of the roads included in these sectors. All this impoverishment in the quality of public services, which began in the year 2012 with its drastic cuts, also on roads, comes from the resolution of the Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Housing. Guess who the secretary of state was? The current Minister of Justice, Rafael Catalá. The resolution also proposed a 20% reduction in Chapter 453 C of the Roads Directorate-General for the conservation and exploitation of roads. This was the beginning of the budgetary tijeretazos, which continue in this chapter, reducing the workers destined for the maintenance of these sectors and others of the State Road Network, which has negatively affected road safety. For all that has been reported, and given the incidence of the snowfalls of 18, 19 and 20 January in the east of the country, the PSOE brings this motion, which is a consequence of the interpellation to the Government, which urges the Executive to: One, improve the systems of coordination between the organs of the General Administration of the State with the rest of the public administrations in the development of functions aimed at ensuring the roadworthiness in the Highway Network of the State, in cases of snowfalls and other extreme weather phenomena that may affect the said network. Two, to assess and correct deficiencies in the implementation of action plans against winter ice and snow contingencies on roads and railways, so as to ensure safe transit in the face of heavy snow. Three, increase the availability of mechanical, material and human means of action plans against winter ice and snow contingencies. Four, maintain the facilities of the V2 centre and also the V6 centre for the conservation and operation of the A-3 and improve the provision of mechanical, material and human resources for the maintenance and operation tasks entrusted to them. Five, analyze the need for winter road parking throughout the Spanish territory and start the procedures for the construction of emergency parking for winter road in the A-3 in the province of Valencia and in the A-31 in the province of Albacete. Finally, a sixth point calling for urgent measures to implement aid, compensation and benefits committed to those affected by storms, floods and other similar circumstances, as well as infrastructure repairs, not only for the last few months, but also for those outstanding in recent years. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u163	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Miquel i Valentí is speaking first of all by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u164	Good night. Thank you, President. The meaning of our amendments is nothing but to improve and broaden the scope of your initiative, which, in fact, seems great to us. We find reprehensible the actions and initiatives taken by the Government that, as you mentioned, came late to solve the problems in the provinces of Valencia and Albacete in the last days of the storm. We believe that this initiative is compatible with talking also about the damage caused by the temporary in Catalonia, because if we talk about the damage caused by the temporary in the Peninsula, I think it is interesting to talk also about what happened in Catalonia. And if we call for infrastructure improvements in Valencia and Albacete, it seems to us that we can make some recommendations for the Garraf coast and the Maresme coast, which is the way in which our amendments go. What do we ask for? We ask, first, to recover a proposal and a commitment from the Spanish Government of 2015 to invest 32 million to protect the coast of Maresme. That is what we are pursuing with our amendment. What do we intend to do? Let the damage caused by the storm be repaired in Deltebre and in San Jaume d'Enveja and in the regions of Tarragona, because the storm arrived for all. If in the end we only focus on improving infrastructure or repairing the damage caused by the storm in two of the provinces we will not get anywhere. We know that the amendments are going to be rejected, but that is not why we are going to vote against them, because we believe that the demand in the original text is legitimate. But even so, we do insist that we believe it is important to maintain our coastline, the Catalan coast, also in the best conditions, as I think it is legitimate for everyone here to ask for improvements in infrastructure or equipment. Therefore, our vote, knowing that the amendments are going to be rejected, will not be against it because we sympathise with any flaws, with any mismanagement of the Spanish Government in this regard, but we regret that our demands which we believe to be as legitimate as those of Albacete and those of Valencia cannot be incorporated into this text. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs Rivera Andrés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u166	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Aemet's weather forecast of the cold and snow storm last January did not prevent traffic cuts in fourteen provinces, five AVE trains paralyzed in Albacete, eighteen trains in Levante and more than 4,000 affected travelers. In its defense, the People's Party claimed - surely today it will also claim it - that the State Meteorology Agency called the time period exceptional, the most severe of the last thirty years. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is not entirely true. It can be argued to infinity if what happened in the temporal past was predictable or unpredictable, but the reality is that the concern for the winter road is not something new, it happens periodically - almost every year and casually in winter - and reaches the pages of the press. Even road safety experts have given him a name, called Saelices syndrome. Ladies and gentlemen, under Saelices syndrome, these kinds of episodes are included, a mixture of incompetence, disorganization, lack of foresight and professional frustration. Its history comes from the early morning of December 4, 1997 - nineteen years ago, by the way, and not thirty - in which several thousand people were trapped in the monumental blockade of more than forty kilometers. Eternal night in Saelices, it's a headline nineteen years ago. [[Show it.]] That day more than 600 people, occupants of between 300 and 400 cars and about 200 trucks, were trapped in this section of Saelices, they did not receive food or blankets until dawn because the helicopters could not fly at night and the snow-relief machines could not enter due to the obstruction of the road by the vehicles. Finally, at 8:30 a.m. on 5 December, the army helicopters finally arrived in that area - it had to be the army again -. Another closer example in time is the year 2008. Snow keeps hundreds of cars trapped on the highway between Leon and Asturias. [[Shows a role with that title]] : In view of the view it seems obvious that the storms are neither unpredictable nor isolated events, but a concern that potentially happens every winter on our roads. Ladies and gentlemen, snow in winter is not unpredictable. However, this is not the biggest problem that your Government has in road safety. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016, traffic accidents claimed the lives of 1,160 people, 1,160 tragedies, 1,160 broken families, 5,067 people needed hospitalization and may still be recovering today. Moreover, these are not provisional data, which will certainly increase. In fact, the consolidated data of the Directorate General of Traffic itself show that victims of traffic accidents have not increased only in 2016, but have increased since 2014, when they were 1,688 -8 more than in 2013-, and 1,689 in 2015 - one more than in 2014-. Ladies and gentlemen, this increase was foreseeable since 2013. I'll show you one more chart. [[That's how he does it.]] The year 2013 - here you can see clearly - already heralded a stagnation of road policies. Since 2013, the curve has become an asymptote that fails to overcome the barrier of 2,000 people who have died a year. More than 3 people lose their lives a day on our roads. Gentlemen of the People's Party - I urge your government - the road policies of the last three years have not worked. Today in the General Directorate of Traffic we know where the problems are and have the tools to solve them, but when the unpredictable is combined with improvisation, the resulting scenario is chaos. This is also the case at the Madrid City Council. I'll give you another example. Pollution in Madrid is not a problem in Madrid, it affects us all and it does not serve, as we have already seen, an absurd Carmena plan of the closure of the traffic. We need a comprehensive plan in which all the institutions are able to agree. Planning is of no use if it is only used to cover the file, planning is of no use if it is not fattened through simulations, if rapid action is not taken - sometimes decisions must be taken within minutes - and, above all, if in the State seventeen autonomous communities and thirty-eight provincial deputies have their own services but do not share them, sometimes even giving themselves absurd situations. I propose the solution, I propose it to the People's Party: in the same way that the Minister of Development - I am finishing, Madam President - has recognized the need for a large national infrastructure agreement and a national evaluation office in point 21 of the investment agreement with Citizens, it is time to create a specific winter road unit, dependent on the Directorate-General for Traffic. - This model already works in France. The formula is simple: agreements between all actors, state, autonomous communities and, in theory, useful disputations that, in many cases, do not even share resources between them. There must be a commitment that all resources in the field of winter transport...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u167	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u168	...have to be available. - I'm done right now. The prediction of the State Meteorological Agency was very good; it pointed to snows below sea level in Levante and, if all resources had been transferred to the south-east of Spain, the situation would have been predictablely different. Either the government takes action or Saelices syndrome will occur on our roads every winter as the day of the marmot. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u169	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Pastor Muñoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. To the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, it seems opportune to the Socialist Group to bring to plenary: the serious consequences of the storm of snow, rain and wind that hit in January the autonomous communities of Balearic Islands, Catalonia, the Region of Murcia, the province of Albacete and especially the Valencian Community. We believe that they require the preferential attention of this Government. We are not talking about a short-term and short-term economic issue. The effects of the temporary compromise even the agricultural and tourist revenues of this year and the cause is not an unpredictable storm, but the abandonment and prolonged mismanagement of the Government. We are surprised, in any case, that the motion proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group focuses on the chaos that occurred in the A-3 and that it has obliterated the extent of the catastrophic situation facing us: stopped trains, interruption of electricity supply, overflowing channels, totally drowned hedges, mammoth agricultural production, devastated promenades and beaches and unprotected coastlines, in addition to the personal and material damage to hundreds and hundreds of people, self-employed and small businesses for whom it is very difficult to assume one more loss and who now live pending from the Insurance Compensation Consortium and the inability of the Government to act. From this Confederal Group we will work to ensure that all commitments made to the various sectors concerned are fulfilled. The Government has apologized, yes, by blaming the disastrous management of the exceptional weather conditions, but to the citizens in general and to the Valencians and Valencians, in particular, they no longer sell us the discourse that they are very good managers. [[Applauds]] The goodness of his efforts is addressed today in all the courts of Spain. The effects of the temporary succession would have been minimized if infrastructure and public services had worked. Instead, they were plagued by deficiencies and inadequate maintenance, resulting from a lack of public investment. However, the PP government continues to cut and play our safety and our protection against the weather roulette. And we are not the only ones, said the union, the Unified Association of the Civil Guard in the Valencian Community, when in its statement it expresses concern about the lack of forecasting, the lack of service and the lack of personnel, the disastrous management of the Government. The representatives of the A-3 road workers also say when they denounce the lack of coordination and that part of the damage could have been avoided if the Government delegation had given instructions to cut off the roads, the A-3, between two and three in the afternoon on day 20, instead of two hours later as happened, and to avoid leaving more than 1,000 people trapped and forced to sleep on the roads. [[The lady]] Conservation workers also tell us that the lack of technical and human resources forced working hours between 12 and 24 hours in the V2 and V6 sectors. They also report that the highway and road access to the Coffres nuclear power plant were blocked. The plant was isolated for hours due to staff cuts due to the merger of sectors B4, V4 and V7. You, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, of the Government, cut back on putting citizens at risk, undermining the safety of vital facilities and putting public workers under insurmountable pressure. The emergencies were alleviated: the Civil Guard, the conservation workers, the firefighters, the Civil Protection, the staff of the hospitals where the light went, the municipalities and the small municipalities. They and they were the ones who cared about the people and carried out admirable work, despite the lack of guidance and coordination of the Government. What a strange sense of patriotism you have when it comes to protecting people! [[Applauds]] In my group we have tabled thirteen amendments to the Socialist Group: two of them for improvement, one of them concerning the definitive decoupling of sectors V2 and V6 and the other for monitoring the role that winter car parks should play; the third amendment, to add, is to make an investment in the performance of contracts and offers in the award of State-owned road services. I'm finishing up. In short, our group believes that the temporary one has brought to light the precariousness of a system of infrastructures on the Mediterranean side. Good infrastructure and emergency equipment are not improvised, they are the result of proper management, proper funding, and the Valencian Community has been demanding this from Mr Rajoy's government for years. Providing funding for the infrastructure system would have been what a responsible administration would have done to put citizens at the centre of its policies and the action of its Government. The exceptional has not been the damage of the storm or the weather conditions, the exceptional would have been that we would have been free with its lack of management, its poor management and the lack of infrastructure. That would have been the exceptional thing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pastor. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernabé Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone, ladies and gentlemen. They are necessarily my first words of showing my respect and greeting to all the members of the House for being the first time that I have the honour and privilege of intervening in it from this rostrum before all of you. By entering directly into the motion before us and seeing the obvious twisting character of wanting to extract political revenue from a temporal with truly extraordinary dimensions, I allow myself to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, a series of considerations and a series of questions, so that then, after reflection, each one will vote in conscience, if he sees fit, in the light of this motion. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, do you really consider that there were not enough means? Stay with this data: 1,359 snow-relief machines, which are available to the Ministry of Development, and 26,000 kilometers on the state road network. Make the division because it is very simple: we have one snow-relief machine every 19 kilometers and all, absolutely all were operational. Is that a shortage of means? It seems obvious not. Secondly, we have to ask ourselves what happened. That there was a combination of two factors, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, a time frame that the State Meteorology Agency has described as extraordinary, exceptional, with snow records that were not known in our country in the last thirty years. Note that in the southeast peninsular quadrant, where you are speaking to them, snow thicknesses of 50 centimeters of thickness were reached and that in Albacete temperatures of up to 26 degrees below zero were recorded, which, however cold it is in the beautiful region of La Mancha, has undoubtedly never been the Siberian steppe, of which the temperatures that occurred during those days were more typical. Along with these extreme temperatures and conditions, ladies and gentlemen, there is a second factor: the physical, material blockade, with obstacles on the highways, which prevented the passage of snow-removal machines. In this case, this was due to two factors: on the one hand, a series of traffic accidents occurred at various kilometre points where trucks of large tonnage were always involved, which were crossed in the tracks and which prevented transit in both directions; on the other hand, several towers and high-voltage lines - up to a hundred in total of the area - collapsed, sank, fell over the roads that they were crossing, being new obstacles that prevented the passage. It is not that there were no means, there were all those of the Ministry of Development, was until the Military Emergency Unit, which mobilized with about 300 troops from Bétera, in Valencia, with their trucks caterpillar, with their snow-relief machines and with all their logistics. There was the Civil Guard, there were Emergencies, Civil Protection, National Police, there were all the necessary means, but they could not access the places that were blocked by the traffic. Before that we must ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, was there any foresight? The answer is definitely no, and it's not because, first of all, no weather agency, none, predicted that the temporal could have such colossal dimensions. Secondly, because the preventive treatments provided for these cases were applied. Thus, in a total of 25,000 kilometres of the 26,000 of the network, 7,000 tons of salt and 4.5 million litres of brine were spread. Thirdly - let us not forget this because it is very important - because the protocols for action in the event of emergencies have been faithfully and scrupulously followed; protocols that were adopted in 2006, governing the proponents of this motion who want to criticize the action of the Government. The truth and truth is that, despite this, hundreds of vehicles were collapsed in the A-3 and the A-31 and their drivers undoubtedly lived hours - it was hours, not days - of jockey, concern, restlessness and nervousness. And before that, what did the Government of Spain do? Firstly, in a gesture which honours you and which we warmly applaud from the People's Group, we ask for forgiveness from all concerned. In the Valencian Community, where the People's Party does not govern either, there were three, four and up to five days blocked dozens of villages and isolated thousands of inhabitants who have not yet heard a single explanation, not even an apology. Undoubtedly, different ways of understanding life and different ways of doing things. But the Government is not only asking for forgiveness, the Government has already put the Ministries of Development and Interior together to review these protocols and improve them to the extent possible so that such situations do not recur in the future. And above all and most importantly - and we will have it here last morning, Thursday - the government in a record time, in just two weeks, has approved the Royal Decree-Law 2/2017. Let us hope that the honourable Members who have been so concerned about the storm will be up on Thursday and vote on what they have to vote for, which is ultimately helping those affected by those storms, which was what the Government did by immediately resolving the problems of those who suffered most from the consequences of those snows and frosts. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. That is why the Group of the European People's Party, sharing the general spirit of the motion - of course, better if it were in a more constructive tone - has chosen not to amend points 1 and 6, although points 2 to 5, to give it a more logical, more coherent, more understandable and comprehensible wording and to look much more closely at the general interest of the Spanish people, which is what the People's Party has always dedicated itself to and is going to devote itself to. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u173	Thank you very much, Mr Bernabé Pérez. I have the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Guipúzcoa Foral Diputation has a protocol of winter performance activated from September to April of every year, just as the rest of the outside diputations of Vizcaya and Álava do, and as a result of it there have been different actions. There are no known risk situations, no known serious incidents, but in the end what has been attempted has been the same with regard to this motion, in order to improve coordination systems, correct the shortcomings in the implementation of the plans, increase the number of mechanical means, take into account the centres of conservation and exploitation. That is to say, the Basque and Navarra outlaws, by virtue of their competences in the field of roads, have carried out a number of actions which have been widely recognized. That is why we fully understand the meaning of this motion and will not hesitate to support it. However, there is one last point that I would like to make. It also talks about aid, compensation and benefits to those affected by the storm, floods, etc. Obviously, we also consider it necessary. It is also true that next Thursday the Royal Decree-Law 2/2017 will be seen, in which it seems that some of these measures will be implemented. I simply wanted to point out that it is good that these aids, those of Royal Decree-Law 2/2017, should be considered, although I would ask the Government to implement the aid provided for in Royal Decree-Law 2/2014, which was approved on the occasion of the storms on the cantabrian and Atlantic coasts, from which the payments were made to all the beneficiary public administrations, except the Diputación Foral de Guipúzcoa, which still has outstanding amounts that have been expressly recognized by decision of the Ministry of Public Administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u175	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good night. Exceptional situations serve us to measure the effectiveness and limits of implementing instruments in exceptional circumstances, and these mechanisms did not work well. The virulence of some recent natural phenomena has revealed the weakness of administrative protocols in emergency situations. The spectacle given by those responsible has also not been at the height of gravity. Rather than analyzing what failures occurred in the response chain, what has been done has been to throw balloons out and accuse others. Blaming the government because it rains is a classic joke. Piove, pig government! Popular wisdom. What recent weather events have shown, however, is that in order to act, administrations governed by different political forces must be coordinated, and from that the lords of the People's Party do not know or, apparently, do not want to learn. The Minister of Development, Íñigo de la Serna, has apologized to the citizens affected by these adverse conditions of the storm. That's good. But it has attributed the situations to exceptional and historical weather conditions, reaching the following conclusion: the situation is exceptional because it has occurred in areas where normally no snow is produced. Obviously; otherwise, it would not be exceptional. In short. Centralism is ineffective. It rains over wet, never better said. We will give you the vote in favour. And as it shows, one more button. From the extraordinary to the ordinary: their way of governing. The Mediterranean corridor has begun in Madrid. The Mediterranean corridor, which starts in Algeciras and goes to France, passing through Murcia, Valencia and Barcelona, joins 50% of the population, 45% of the Spanish GDP, 47% of the productive fabric, 46% of the employment, 51% of the export and 63% of the goods traffic. Does Minister Catalá know? Apparently not. Does the government know? I doubt it. Does President Rajoy know? You don't know, you don't answer. And yet, going from Valencia to Barcelona today, for example, costs three and a half hours, half an hour more than ten years ago, while the same distance from Valencia to Madrid with AVE is only one hour and thirty minutes, if it doesn't snow. It is important to clarify one thing. The Mediterranean corridor that is to be run is a substitute, it is not the one that the entrepreneurs ask. Will the businessmen, who in Tarragona demand a change of policy: leave the third thread in peace and make a double lane corridor that allows on one side to install the high speed for passengers and leave the other for goods? However, the PP government decided to opt, as on exceptional issues, for the cheapest solution, of less costs; inefficiency in extraordinary situations, such as past storms, and greater inefficiency with ordinary, fundamental ones. A management friend of a company told me that, in a conversation, a senior official of the Ministry of Energy had told him that the electric bill could not be touched because it altered the matrix, and that one, the matrix, was untouchable. [[The lady]] In short, I meant that you can't touch the status quo, because if you touch the status quo, everything falls. This is the key; neither exceptional solutions in difficult situations, nor good governance in the ordinary, nor in the Mediterranean axis, nor in the electric, nor with Catalonia. Conservative centralism in the 19th century let go of the First Industrial Revolution; in the 21st century we go for the fourth, and you with the same, with your matrix. Progress and Republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u177	Thank you very much. I ask Mr González Ramos whether your group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u178	The wording of paragraphs 4 and 7 of the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is incorporated.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u179	Thank you very much. In three minutes we shall begin voting. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, the Congress of Deputies, in the face of the crimes of gender-based violence that have occurred in recent days and in tribute to all women victims and their children and of respect and solidarity with their families, has decided to keep a minute of silence in this plenary, expressing our will and our firm commitment to work to end this cruel manifestation of inequality that still exists in our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u181	We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, reforming the Act of 18 June 1870 on rules for the exercise of pardon. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 plus 2 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 341 plus 2 telematics votes, 343; against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u182	Accordingly, consideration was given to the proposal for a law. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States may, in common, in Marea, for the implementation of urgent measures in the field of local planning. [[File number 122/000038]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u183	We then proceed to the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, for the implementation of urgent measures in the field of local regime. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 plus 2 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 86; against, 171 plus 1 telematics vote, 172; abstentions, 85 plus 1 telematics vote, 86.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u184	Consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u185	We shall proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the course of the debate. Firstly, the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the creation of a public banking pole. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist and Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 164 against, 177 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u186	It's rejected. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON AMENDMENT OF THE LEGAL REGIME OF COMPANY ANIMALS IN THE CIVIL CODE. [[File number 162/000200]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u187	Proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the modification of the legal regime for pet animals in the Civil Code. We are going to vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by all the parliamentary groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 342.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u188	The non-legislative proposal was approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u189	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent appeals. First, we voted on the motion by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the precarious employment situation of the Civil Guard. It was voted on in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Socialists and Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 327 abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u190	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States may, in common, wish to know whether the Government intends to transpose Directive 2014/17/EU of 4 February 2014 to improve measures for the protection of consumers and the transparency of mortgage credit, as well as to comply with various judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in relation to the procedures for the implementation of mortgages in Spain. [[File number 173/000014]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u191	We then proceed to vote on the motion of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, to know whether the Government intends to transpose Directive 2014/17 of the European Union of 4 February 2014 to improve consumer protection measures and transparency of mortgage claims, as well as to comply with various judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union regarding mortgage enforcement procedures in Spain. You're going to vote for points. We voted, first of all, on point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 86 against, 172 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u192	It's rejected. We voted for point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 339 against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u193	It was adopted. Let's move on to point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 341 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u194	It was adopted. Let's move on to point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 254 against, 1 abstentions, 87.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u195	It was adopted. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 86 against, 171 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u196	It's rejected. We voted on point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 86 against, 171 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u197	It's rejected. We shall now proceed to vote on item 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 118 against, 139 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u198	It's rejected. Let's move on to point 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 118 against, 139 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u199	It's rejected. We shall now proceed to vote on point 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 342.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u200	It was adopted. Finally, we turn to point 10. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 342.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u201	It was adopted. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the reasons for the lack of forecasting and the decoordination of the Government and the insufficiency of marketable devices to avoid the consequences that have affected thousands of Spanish citizens, on the occasion of the Cold and Nine Times last week. [[File number 173/000015]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u202	We shall now proceed to vote on the Socialist Group's motion on the reasons for the lack of forecasting and the government's lack of coordination and the inadequacy of the arrangements put in place to avoid the consequences that thousands of Spanish citizens have suffered during the cold and snow storm last week. [[Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández asks for the floor]] Mr. Secretary of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u203	Thank you, President. As the proposing group already knows, we are going to oppose the processing of this transaction and request that the original text of the Socialist Group's motion be voted on in its original terms. And we announce that we're going to back her up.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u204	I ask the Socialist Group the terms of the vote. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u205	We keep the motion on its terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u206	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. We therefore proceed to vote on the Socialist Group's motion on the reasons for the lack of forecasting and the government's lack of coordination and the inadequacy of the mechanisms put in place to avoid the consequences that thousands of Spanish citizens have suffered during the cold and snow storm last week. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 260 against, 1 abstention, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-14-CD170214.u207	It's approved. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and forty minutes of the night.
