ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We begin with the agenda item corresponding to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 6/2017 of 31 March, approving the offer of public employment in the fields of non-university and university teaching staff, Armed Forces, State Security Forces and Police Dependent on Autonomous Communities for 2017. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today the Government brings to Congress for validation by the House the Royal Decree-Law 6/2017, of 31 March, approving the offer of public employment in the fields of non-university and university teaching personnel, Armed Forces, Forces and State Security Bodies and police subordinates of the Autonomous Communities for 2017. As you know, the content of this royal decree-law is part of a broader agreement signed by the Government and the public service unions to strengthen staffing, to improve the quality and stability of employment in the administration and to improve the public services they provide to citizens. This is undoubtedly a very positive agreement and has been appreciated by the parties concerned because it takes advantage of the improvement of the economic situation in our country to achieve the greatest possible benefits for public employees, while respecting the need that we still need to reduce the public deficit. It would not have been possible to sign such an agreement if all the parties involved in this negotiation had not put the general interest and interest of public employees above any other consideration. That is a lesson that we should all often apply in the current political scenario in which dialogue and willingness to agree are essential for passing the laws and reforms that our country needs to continue to make progress. Nothing is impossible when there is a will to build and clear objectives to be achieved, as demonstrated by this agreement signed by two parties who at other times have shown clearly distant positions and approaches. It is also clear that such an agreement would not have been possible in a different economic situation from the current one; it would not have been possible if we continued in a scenario like that which we have lived in previous years and which we are now fortunately overcoming. That is why it is so important to continue, in the next fiscal years, in the reduction of the public deficit, because this is the only way to strengthen the economic recovery and we can continue to improve, modernizing, the structures of the Spanish public administration, the working conditions of public employees and the living conditions of all Spaniards. I would also like to recall that this agreement is not only based on the will of the Government of Spain and the public service unions, but also on the interest expressed by the autonomous communities to strengthen the administrative structure of the priority sectors and to achieve stability in public employment at this new stage, after several years in which access to the administration has been characterized by the interinity of the occupied places. Indeed, the basic lines of the agreement signed between the Government and trade unions derive from the conclusions of the Conference of Presidents held on 17 January. At that meeting, the autonomous presidents called for the analysis of the special needs of the priority sectors of the autonomous communities and cities with autonomy status, in particular those of social services, education, health, security and emergencies, within the framework of the annual public offer of employment. In this regard, the Conference of Presidents called for a balanced and sustainable reinforcement of the workforce throughout each public administration from respect - and I believe it is important to highlight this consideration in the light of certain positions that have recently been heard in this House - to the limits and rules of expenditure established. In addition, the Conference of Autonomous Presidents called for an analysis of the situation of interinity in essential public services, especially in education and health, with a view to strengthening the stability of staffing to ensure the provision of higher quality public services and, also, financially sustainable. That is what we did on 29 March last Government and trade unions with the signing of the agreement and that is what reflects this royal decree-law, which regulates one of the parties to the agreement, which refers to the call for public employment in certain priority sectors. Let us remember that the agreement signed in the Public Service provides for a 100 per cent replacement rate in the priority sectors, with the particularity that the number of these sectors is increasing compared to previous years of other essential public services to meet certain needs of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about that this 100% replacement rate affects services such as health; education; the administration of justice; social services; control and combating tax, labour, public subsidies and social security fraud; fire prevention and extinction; active employment policies; safety; direct provision of public transport services and emergencies. The replacement rate for the rest of the sectors will continue to be 50%. This is going to mean a public job offer of around 67 000 jobs this year. By subsectors, 19,000 will be in the General Administration of the State, of which 13,422 will be free-turn and 5578 will be for internal promotion. In addition, 28 144 places belong to the Autonomous Communities and 20 000 to local authorities. The justification for approving this part of the offer of public employment through this royal decree-law is clear from the Government's point of view, and the urgency of doing so is also clear. There are sectors that cannot wait for the approval of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2017, they are sectors that need the convening of the corresponding selective processes to be carried out urgently in order not to harm the activity and not to harm the citizens who benefit from this public service. We are talking about sectors that, in order to function properly, require the incorporation of re-entry staff into a pre-established schedule, either by the start of the school year, as is the case with the teaching bodies, or by the start of the legally required training before joining the active service. This is the case with the personnel of the Armed Forces and the Security Forces and Bodies. In the case of the General Administration of the State this offer of employment, which includes the Royal Decree-Law, covers almost 8,000 places of civil servants. In the area of autonomous communities, a 100 per cent replacement rate is envisaged in the educational sphere, which could comprise some 11,500 places and a 100 per cent replacement rate has also been established for police forces dependent on the autonomous communities. As I was telling you, a very clear case of the urgent need to convene the selective personnel process because of the dates on which we find ourselves is that of education, both non-university and university education. In order for the right to education to be fully attended to by the public authorities, it is essential that the recruitment of re-entry staff be carried out at the beginning of the academic year. To achieve this goal, the Royal Decree-Law provides for the early convening of a number of 100 percent places in terms of replacement rate in non-university education... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u3	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u4	... to ensure that the personal means necessary to serve this essential public service in public administrations with educational competences are maintained. The same replacement rate is envisaged for the bodies of university professors, university professors and professors hired university doctors. The forecast is that in the area of the Autonomous Communities these replacement rates will comprise some 10,000 places for non-university teaching staff and about 1500 places for university teachers, while in the area of the General Administration of the State there will be 42 places for free access to the teaching staff. In the case of the Armed Forces, it should be noted that the fulfilment of mandated missions requires that the various units have minimum available personnel at all times. In addition, in the case of officers, it should be remembered that their preparation is linked to the university sphere. This makes it necessary that the annual call for places to access the various scales of officers must be compatible with the development of the academic year. They are places for which a period of previous training is necessary that is complex, because it requires not only to pass the studies corresponding to the military career that is to be developed, but to obtain a university degree. If the approval of the offer of the different places was not carried out with the utmost urgency, there would be a delay in the development of the selective processes that would prevent the normal development of the academic year. Similar reasons require an urgent call for the offer of public employment of the Civil Guard officers, and in general of all the positions of the Armed Forces and the State Security Forces and Corpses, which require certain training processes. Furthermore, in any case, we must bear in mind that we are talking about very sensitive functions such as national defence and public security, which require adequate staffing to ensure the proper functioning of society. This call has an employment offer of 3591 places for the National Police Corps, which is the highest public job offer for the National Police since 2009, while the Civil Guard job offer is the highest since 2008, with 2346 places. A 100 per cent replacement rate has also been established for police forces dependent on autonomous communities, although in the case of the Basque Autonomous Police the offer of employment will be the one necessary to comply with the agreement of the Basque Country Security Board on its total numerical composition, in accordance with its autonomy statute. Finally, 1990 positions are convened for the Armed Forces, of which 1699 are places for career and complementary military personnel. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, the autonomous communities and the public service unions have made a commitment to public employment, to the stability and quality of public employment, which is why I call for the House's support for the decree-law. This is a serious and responsible bet, a conscious bet that after almost a decade of economic crisis and in a scenario of frank recovery we must strengthen and improve the public services that citizens receive, especially all those that are priority; I am talking about health, education, justice, security, emergencies, the fight against fraud, employment, transport or public attention in areas such as social services or tax and collection management. In order to achieve this objective, we must continue to modernise and speed up public administrations, which means that we must continue to digitise the provision of these public services, but we also need to act in the workplace, improving the working conditions of public employees and their remuneration, incorporating new staff to rejuvenate the workforce with citizens who are willing to develop a career in public service and, accordingly, offering greater job stability. In this respect, I think it is good to mention in this speech that the agreement signed with the trade unions is moving forward on this stability bet, with a reduction in the temporality in the public administration of up to 90% of the existing interims over a period of three years. It must be borne in mind that we are starting from a very high figure of almost 300 000 interims, and that this high number of interims mainly affects three sectors of great importance to society: health, education and justice, where the rates of temporality vary between 30% of health, 25% of the Administration of Justice and 20% in non-university education. In order to reduce this high rate of temporaryity, the agreement provides that the competent administrations will have to articulate selection processes over this three-year period in order to achieve the stabilization of these staff, in any case respecting the principles of merit and capacity. Without a doubt, all the parties that have intervened in this agreement, in this process, we consider it very important to offer job stability in the administration, especially in these sectors that provide public services that are fundamental to citizens and that, at the same time, are very sensitive to the proper functioning of the state. We are convinced that this reduction to the minimum of the rate of temporality will benefit not only employees who obtain a stable position, but also those who access the various public services, as these measures will lead to an improvement in their efficiency and quality. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by stressing that the contents of the decree-law come from this agreement, which is the result of political dialogue and social dialogue. In addition to encouraging improvements in public services, it is also a way of thanking public employees for their important contribution to economic recovery and the fight against the public deficit. There is no doubt that this economic recovery obliges us to improve their working and wage conditions to the extent that it is permitted by State finances and the signing of the agreement is a good sign of that desire. Finally, all of us who have participated in this agreement have shown that we are committed to dialogue and that we do not want it to end here. In fact, the agreement itself that has been signed provides for the establishment of working groups between the Administration and trade union organizations to consider measures on issues such as geographical and functional mobility, the promotion of training and professionalization, gender equality criteria and victims of gender-based violence, the situation of civil servants' mutual societies and the monitoring of the implementation of the Digital Administration. Thus, we are faced with a new demonstration that we can make progress on very important objectives for societies of different political positions and institutions, along with particular visions and prioritising the common good of the Spaniards. In this spirit, I ask the parliamentary groups to support the validation of this royal decree-law, which contains the points of the agreement that are most urgent to launch, as the call for these places cannot wait for the approval of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2017. I therefore trust that we will get the majority support of the House today and that this support will be part of a dynamic that will lead us to future coincidences on very important matters that concern us all, because, in fact, they affect the improvement of the economic and social situation of our citizens. Honestly, nothing should be more important than that to any politician or a responsible politician. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u5	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi, is taking part in the round of fixing positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u6	Thank you very much, President. Minister, go ahead and count on our vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, but we would like to give you some silent reflections that are important to us, to Catalonia and to the Generalitat of Catalonia, and others of a more general nature. We welcome the agreement reached with the trade unions, which is an important agreement. The question of interinity was a matter of concern to us all, but I also welcome his words that it is one more step and we must continue to work in this direction. In that regard, I will also give you some thought this morning. Beyond this, and understanding that it is important and urgent - we also agree on urgency - this public offer in relation to the university, non-university teaching bodies, the State Security Forces and Bodies and also the security bodies of the autonomous communities, we do not see why some aspects differ. We are not concerned about the second additional provision; we are concerned that there is no identical additional provision for other autonomous police officers such as the Mossos d'Esquadra. You'd have to look at yourself with the same standards, and I'll explain myself. A 100 per cent replacement rate is not enough. The Basque Autonomous Police, rightly, is allowed to exceed this 100 per cent provided that the total number agreed by the Basque Country Security Board is not exceeded and we believe that this same criterion should apply to Catalonia. That is why we are going to vote in favour, but we will also call for a bill to be adopted to incorporate an amendment to that effect. In the case of Catalonia, as you will know - and if not, I can remind you - there is an agreement of 14 September 2006, which established a maximum number of 18,267 members for the Autonomous Police. There have been years in which they have not been covered, because with the replacement rate it was not possible and surely because neither did the finances of the Generalitat allow it. We believe that an agreement should now be reached in the same direction. This maximum total number of the Catalan Security Board should be the reference point and not a replacement rate. Speaking of the Security Board of Catalonia, I would like to ask you to convey to your partner that in Catalonia we are awaiting the convening of this board. The Councillor of the Interior, and for a long time Vice-President of this House, has the absolute will to convene it; there is an agenda that has been agreed for a long time, there is an offer of different dates to be celebrated. A few days ago my colleague Guillaumes reminded the Secretary of State, and this is also an important topic at the moment for Catalonia, they know how to act by Councillor Jané and, therefore, I take advantage of my presence in this rostrum to demand that the call for this Security Board in Catalonia no longer be extended. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u8	Some further reflection, Minister, on the replacement rates and the objective of meeting the deficit in each of the administrations. There is a level of administration, which you know very well, which over the last few years is not that it has not generated deficit but has generated surplus, which is the local administration. We understand that after many years of surpluses and different control measures in relation to local government expenditure, there is no point in maintaining replacement rates in the area of local government; we could also discuss it in other areas, but in the area of local government there is no meaning that is limited to priority sectors or limited to local self-government where there are no financial reasons for doing so. We are therefore going to present - as we have done in the area of budgets - more initiatives. The other day I was talking to the representatives of the UGT unions and the Workers' Commissions in the field of Public Service and we agreed that one of the elements of the next agreement has to be to give free decision-making capacity to local corporations, in terms of recruitment, because they are all generating surplus, minister, and it makes no sense to make inventions sometimes to dress certain places as priorities and put in a situation the interveners, secretaries, councillors and mayors that makes no sense. Therefore, even if we vote in favour, we will continue to demand this greater flexibility which I believe the local government has earned. I repeat, Minister, they will count on our support, but we will request that this initiative be dealt with as a bill, because we understand that there should be an additional provision similar to the second for the Basque Country for the case of Catalonia and the Mossos, the security forces of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Vasco PNV Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will speak briefly, and therefore I do so from the seat, to state that the recognition of our foral peculiarity as regards the replacement rates or public offers of employment of the Ertzaintza gives satisfaction to the recognition and protection of our historical rights that demands the additional first of the Constitution and its updates, the general operated in the Statute of Gernika and the individuals carried out in subsequent regulations, such as this one that is now presented to us for validation and to which we will therefore give our support. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u11	Thank you very much. Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u12	Good morning to you all, Minister, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what you did in the name of the crisis was to apply your ideology, it won in the Kingdom of Spain austerity, the most masochistic austerity, a austerity disguised as cuts and more cuts and, above all, the alarming call for efforts and over-efforts to the citizens on foot. We can say without fear of being mistaken that the usual ones were taken away, in fact, also in this case the officials. It seems that the situation, according to you, has begun to change and that Minister Montoro can say in this House without blushing that he presents us with the most social budgets of history. We agree with you that the operational needs of certain sectors of public activity undoubtedly require the incorporation of re-entry staff to ensure the provision of such public services diligently and, of course, with strict - I stress - personal media planning. But, Minister, under no circumstances do we share having reached what you have brought us, because we live, thanks to your policies, truly surrealist situations. One of these situations is that experienced at Barcelona-El Prat airport, where the staffing of the National Police that is responsible for checking passports is so scandalously insufficient that it has generated queues of more than two hours. Do you know what it means to make a queue of more than two hours to catch a plane? Are you aware of the discomfort, nervousness and irritation caused by your own tail and the prospect of losing your flight? It's not the first time it's happened and, I don't know why, we're afraid it won't be the last, because this is happening every time there's a punctual increase in passengers. It already happened on the occasion of the World Mobile Congress, held in Barcelona a few months ago, it was repeated in Holy Week and again happened on the weekend of the 1st of May bridge. There was real chaos, with queues of more than two hours - I repeat - in the control of passports and delays on scheduled flights, and that despite the increase in the number of police personnel assigned to the control of documentation to passengers. But it is not just a question of increasing, Minister, but of adapting and, at the same time, planning; that is, efficiency as the only way to achieve efficiency. On this bridge, 945 operations between take-off and landings had been planned, so the police's ex post facto measures also failed to appease the controversy caused by the agglomerations of the previous day. The chaos was, therefore, of scandalous proportions. A few months ago, the Vice-President of the Spanish Government attributed herself to the institutional relations of the State in Catalonia. I want to understand that this is something similar to what has been called Operation Catalunya or Operation Catalonia. It would be preferable for Mrs Sáenz de Santamaría, who is not here today, but is being transmitted to her, rather than coming to Barcelona for the Diada de Sant Jordi, for example, to walk through La Rambla, to make one of the queues that her inefficient Government generates at our airports or to ride on a train nearby to see its punctuality and to take literally a mass bath on the platform and, also, inside it. The fact that there were only two police officers in the passport control windows and not even a tape to distribute the queues, we do not know whether it responds to an absolute lack of planning, to a sublime inefficiency or to a strategy of the Spanish Government to reduce the competitiveness of our airport. I do not want to be so ill-conceived, in fact I am not, but the fact is that its inefficiency is calling into question the competitiveness of our capital. Or do you think that the opinion about Barcelona of those who came to the Mobile Word Congress was not harmed by the many hours of queue they suffered? In the same way, it also affected our image that the National Police or the Civil Guard who were looking after them or trying to order them in the queue did not even speak English. We therefore not only hope, Minister, that the increase in the number of police personnel will make passport checks at Barcelona-El Prat airport efficient, but we also hope that calls will require these police officers to have more language skills than they currently have. And not only do I speak to you about the proper skills in English that must have those police bodies that are responsible for relating to tourists, but these same skills must be required for those who are destined for territories that have a language different from Spanish - I am finishing - among other things, because the lack of linguistic competence in Catalan, Basque or Galician of those police officers destined for the Catalan Countries, Basque Herria or Galicia in many cases becomes, ladies and gentlemen, a lack of democracy. Not in vain, it has been years since Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya denounces the permanent violation of the linguistic rights practiced by the Forces and Bodies of State Security in these territories, and in a way, this yes, very tearing in the Valencià Country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordan and Roura. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing the validation of the sixth decree-law of the year, on this occasion to give the Ok or not to the offer of public employment in certain specific areas of our public administrations - they have been said here -: university or non-university teaching staff, Armed Forces, State Security Forces and Bodies and Autonomous Polices. You have already advanced, Minister, that our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law, and will do so for several reasons. [[The Rumors Continue]] The first of them is that this decree or, rather, the support for its validation, cannot be understood without the approval of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2017, a General Budgets of the State which, as you all know, my group has negotiated and supported. The reasons for this support are clear. We have already said both in this plenary and repeatedly in the various committees that our support for the budgets is not a blank cheque, our support for the budgets is subject to a series of changes, a series of reforms in exchange for stability, a clear change in the trend towards an end to an era of cuts and austerity to which we were accustomed by the People's Party Government. In addition, with regard to public employment, the draft budget law represents the greatest supply of public employment in democracy. By approving these budgets, we give the green light to 250 000 new public employment places throughout Spain over the next three years; through these budgets, we are able to combat and cope with the high rates of precariousness in which workers are immersed in some important sectors, such as health or education. Thanks to its approval, 240 000 temporary staff will become fixed, reducing the precarious employment situation in the sector by 17%. At present, ladies and gentlemen, there are some 300 000 temporary staff in the Administration with rates of 30 % in health care, 25 % in the Administration of Justice or 20 % in non-university education. Therefore, with this change in trend we have made progress in the stability of employment with regard to the staffing of the public sector, with this new offer of public employment, ladies and gentlemen, we have achieved that nine out of ten interim officials have a stable job, have a fixed job. These budgets not only mean the end of cuts in health, they also mean that 130 000 jobs will become fixed in the field of Spanish public health. These budgets not only amount to 100 million for the modernisation of our judicial system, which it lacks, but also to 10 000 employees of the Justice Administration to obtain a fixed position. The same happens if we talk about education, the cuts in education are over. In Citizens we believe that there is nothing more important for the present and for the future of our society than education. That is why we have managed to include a plan against school failure so that no child will be left behind and let us stop being the country of Europe with more repetitions and with the highest dropout rates. That is why we have also managed to double the scholarships by up to 50 million, so that textbooks are free for families who need them most. But these budgets also involve the transformation of 100,000 temporary staff positions into fixed staff, because our teachers are one of the fundamental parts in our educational system. As I said to you, all this means a change of direction in terms of the Public Service, it means starting the way to reduce the rate of temporaryity of all public employment by three years, from 25% to 8%, but not only that, it also means the coverage of 100% of pensions in education, health and justice, and it also ensures a 1% increase in civil servants' salaries after years of cuts and loss of rights. I will remind you where we come from, ladies and gentlemen, we have come from many years with a general policy of quasi-zero replacement rates, without prejudice to a few exceptions. The People's Party limited replacement rates to 10% during the 2012, 2013 and 2014 financial years in some of the key sectors, and also froze staff salaries in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. This kind of policy has led us to see that between 2012 and 2016 the number of employees in the State service has fallen to some 167 000 people, almost 6%, according to the data published in the Staff Statistical Bulletin at the service of public administrations. Replenishment rates were also limited at the time of the Socialist Party's government, which should also be remembered that 2010 averaged 5 % of the salary for officials to freeze in 2011. That is, for many years, since the crisis began, both with the Socialist Party and with the People's Party, public employees and their families have been directly affected by the cuts, and with these budgets, ladies and gentlemen, this trend is reversed. This royal decree-law, as I have told you before, must be understood as a complement to the General Budgets of the State of 2017, and that is the second reason for our favorable vote. This decree is an accessory element justified by a temporary issue, the operating needs of certain sectors of public activity that require the incorporation of re-entry staff, form a pre-established temporary cadence, and also set a 100 per cent replacement rate for certain teaching bodies, both university and non-university, as well as for the Autonomous Police. In short, ladies and gentlemen, my group is going to support the validation of this royal decree, and it is going to do so in line with the attitude of responsibility that it has maintained these months and with the negotiation of budgets that, if they are not citizens to the hundred percent, clearly reflect our priorities and are - so to speak - dyed orange wherever it matters: in the reforms, in the modernization and in the rescue of those who have been left behind during the crisis. It is, therefore, other groups who have to wonder with what authority they will vote favorably for a decree on public employment, when they have torpedoed the budgets that make it possible; how from now on it is no, the permanent blockade, maximalism, the sham for the sham and irresponsibility now intend to get into the work cart and the operation of an Administration that, if it depended on its actions, would remain blocked and suffocated economically another year more. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, from here I invite you to look at the people who are going to benefit from this job offer and the citizens who are going to benefit from the services and explain to them that you have preferred to block the budgets that make it possible. We are going to go to sleep with a very calm conscience; there each with his own. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[applause.-Continue the rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo Estahun. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to reduce the volume of the talks in the Chamber a little bit. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Montoro, you come here today with a grandiose speech, to sell an achievement, another merit of the People's Party government, and there is no merit. The merit would have been not rescuing banks and helping people; that would have been a great merit of them, but having starred in the greatest dismantling of public officials in all history is no merit. [[Applauds]] You have never believed in civil servants, nor have you believed in the public; your policies have always been more focused on cutting and privatization, because while you have frozen the offer of public employment you have been dedicated to privatizing it, and could set many examples of privatization. In any case, in the National Police today we have 10,000 fewer police officers, the offer is about 3300; with that we do not even have to cover the retirements that are going to occur this year, then the deficit is the same, that is, we will have the same police deficit. And in the Civil Guard the data are the same, it doesn't even give us to cover retirements. I have heard him talk about socio-occupational conditions, and I have to tell him that the lack of agents not only affects the service, but also will prevent the existence of a decent working day, that the shifts can be carried out, therefore, we will accentuate precarious employment within the police and the Civil Guard. In addition, the non-replenishment accumulated during these years has led to the ageing of the police and the Civil Guard staff. Today the average age in both the Police and the Civil Guard is forty-three years. In the Civil Guard, of 70,000 officers, less than 4000 are between twenty and thirty years old. Of course, that's a problem and you know it: the aging of the staff. That dismantling of the public during these years has produced and is going to cause damage that are irreparable. Most of the courts in our country have a lack of resources and personnel that translates into a mountain of cases stacked on their shelves. Justice is not slow, it is fast if you make it personal and media, although you need personnel, but justice is not slow. There are National Police stations that many days do not even have a patrol car to serve their citizens; there are Civil Guard barracks that remain closed and, as a result, farmers from many villages have to improvise neighbourhood patrols. That is the reality of what is happening in this country. We have elite units, such as the UDEF and the UCO, which are low, virtually dismantled. It may not be a priority for you to increase the UCO workforce, but for the rest of society it is, believe me; it is a priority for elite units such as UCO and UDEF. In addition, you have been betting on the privatization of the public. Today we have private security guards working twelve hours for 800 euros because you have dedicated yourselves to privatizing the public. That's what you've done, that's the merit, if we can call it that, that you have as far as the public offer is concerned. Therefore, we do not believe in this royal decree because it is very insufficient. We will support it, but it is very insufficient, very insufficient, and it does not solve the security problems and the problems we face in the Police and Civil Guard. We want more personnel. Believe in the public, that you do not believe in the public. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Delgado Ramos. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mena Arca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u18	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Minister, I am neither Shakira, as you can see from my waist, nor you are Maluma, but this decree is part of a blackmail, a blackmail that is unworthy, Minister, because in this blackmail your hostages have again been the most vulnerable: the interims and the opponents. [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] Mr. Montoro, you said that as long as the public accounts were not approved, no Administration could call places. This decree confirms that, conscientiously, you lied, called on the autonomic governments to legal insecurity and condemned the opponents to despair, so you have already planted the field to lower the calls for public employment for this year 2017, which is what you really want. With their action and their statements today many communities have announced that they will not call up opposition in education because this decree comes prematurely late. Spain was already one of the countries with the highest interinity rate in the civil service, but its voraciousness has no limits and they decided to set this replacement rate. Now they say they want to lower it and they want to lower the interinity to 8%. It's as if the one who caused a fire now comes to replant trees in the forest. The replacement rate that you approved without negotiation is an ideological tool and a disproportionate intrusion into municipal and autonomous autonomy, and it has not resulted in savings, as you well know. All it has meant is to apply the policies of the People's Party on the path in which you did not win elections at the polls. It is true that the trade unions were taken away from this agreement, which is clearly an insufficient agreement. It corrects a situation of absolute precariousness, but does not revert to the 2011 staff cuts, do not replenish all public employment and do not revise the replacement rate for all public services, in addition they do so in an area as sensitive to the whole of the citizenry as it is education, which comes to be added to its ideological cuts in educational matters. There are two very important elements that should be corrected by this decree. First, the 100 percent replacement does not reverse the teacher cutbacks. You have been the employer that has led to the unemployment of 32,000 teachers in the Spanish State. Secondly, in the university sphere they leave the door open to more staff cuts, as established by the Budget Stability Act. It seems that you do not have enough because, if not, minister, tell me what section 19.2 of the Budget Act means, which we ask you to correct. Either you're very clumsy or you're very mean. So, Minister, they correct section 19.2 of the Budgets Act, because they seem to want to continue to condemn thousands of interns to unemployment for not being able to chain up more than three years of internment. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. Stop, gentlemen of the People's Party, playing with the work of thousands of officials and opponents of the Spanish state. Public employment is very important. You must establish public employment templates not only in education and the Armed Forces, but also in health, in culture and in so many other areas. - I'm done. Minister, don't play with people's work, don't blackmail opponents, because the public worker is the support of our public services. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena Arca. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Serrano Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before going on to analyze the content of this Royal Decree-Law I have to acknowledge that we are happy in the Socialist Parliamentary Group because they have listened to us. We have been insisting on the need to approve the offer of public employment. We knew that it was possible even if the General Budgets of the State were not approved, but they wanted to subject us to such blackmail, deliberately forgetting that the urgent need to approve this offer of public employment is very justified, as we had reminded them over and over again from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and from the autonomous communities with socialist governments. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, so far this government has been highlighted by the abuse of decree-laws, in which the extraordinary and urgent need was more than questionable. It is also true that they have used them almost always to amend themselves. At least on this occasion, due to its parliamentary weakness, it has been the result of collective bargaining, absent from its decisions in the last five years. The validation that we are discussing is an obvious example of that practice of correcting oneself without blushing at the very least. It is only necessary to analyse the explanatory statement of the Royal Decree-Law to realize the lack of complexes of this Government. This explains the reasons for this: the operational needs of certain sectors of public activity require the incorporation of re-entry staff, according to a pre-established time schedule. In addition: in order to ensure the provision of these public services with stability and in accordance with the needs, adequate planning of the personal media is necessary, which contributes to the approval by this Royal Decree-Law of the offer of public employment in the sectors concerned. Of course it is necessary to plan the personal resources of the Administration, of course it is necessary to incorporate staff to meet the operational needs of the public services, but, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore that it has been the decisions of the People's Party itself in the Government that have caused in the last five years this limit situation of the public services that are trying to solve in this offer of public employment that we today validate. I could have applied these considerations, Mr Montoro, when in 2012 they began to destroy essential public services, resulting in the loss of 300,000 public jobs during this period. Now you realize the Administration needs personnel? How much damage they have done to public services in this country, especially the most sensitive because of their essential character for most people. And it justifies it in the crisis, but no, it is its ideology that has made these cuts and this damage to public services. They have been five years of attitude against collective bargaining, imposing cuts in the rights of public employees, who have also felt despised by the statements of senior government officials with responsibility in this area. Five years, the same as the Socialist Party has been denouncing that its policy of cutting public employees' rights was a direct attack on the most essential public services, such as health, education and social services. Five years and finally the government, the result of its weakness, that not of its conviction - I remind you -, feels to negotiate with those who previously did not want to. We congratulate the trade unions on their commitment and dignity in these years of abuse. We recognize and value the exercise of responsibility by social actors in the face of the Government's delay in its unwarranted and advantageous position. They know that their behavior has had thousands of opponents with aspirations to become public employees or temporary contracts in the Administration in the most absolute uncertainty. Citizens receiving these public services have also been held hostage to this irresponsible attitude of the Government. The Socialist Parliamentary Group recognizes the bargaining effort of the trade unions. Do not take possession of an achievement that does not belong to you, Mr Montoro; do not come to put on medals that do not belong to you, such as measures to reduce temporary employment to around 8%, which were already established in 2007 with a socialist government. It's not your achievement, believe me. Ladies and gentlemen, I was saying at first that my group welcomes this decree-law, but the truth is that it knows us little by little. We consider some of the measures insufficient because, with a 100% replacement rate in some services, only the reductions will be met but we will not recover the 300 000 public jobs lost with the cuts of the People's Party Government. And I would like to highlight the concern of the local authorities, who are more punished if it is possible than the rest of the administrations. The local government has increased from 646,627 employees in June 2011 to 547,800 employees, which means a 15.26% reduction in staffing in just five years, with the consequent deterioration of public services that is occurring mainly in smaller municipalities, which do not have so much staff and which have much more work to recover. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled a number of amendments to this year's general budgets, with the support of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, with the aim of having the Government reconsider the regulations on the application of the replacement rate for local government staff. The municipalities, the parliaments, the lobbyists, the island councils, have been asking for support and sensitivity to their demands and concerns for several years, and you, gentlemen of the Government, have looked elsewhere so far. Since the Austericide, they have slowed down the development of local employment initiatives and the proper provision of public services to citizens. I'm finishing up. With this decree-law the public administrations find a reason not to interrupt or cease its operation, but not to improve. It is a point of departure but we ask you to continue moving towards the goal. As always, there is no projection of a model of public employment, possibility of planning. Mr Montoro, take public services and administration seriously and also plan the medium and long term. It is necessary because, I repeat, you are trying to solve urgently a problem which you yourselves have created. Mr Montoro, in the administration lies the protection and guarantee of the rights of citizens, the promotion of economic activity, the promotion of equal opportunities and the maintenance of social cohesion. There is no policy with results without good governance and the cornerstone of this strategy is public employees. Give them due respect and also respect the citizens who are cared for every day by the public employees of this country. Our group will vote in favour of validation because it is a starting point, but let us move towards the goal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Serrano Jiménez. Mrs López Ares has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the royal decree-law that is presented for validation is yet another example of the commitment of the governments of Mariano Rajoy to the role of public administrations as providers of public services to citizens and of the commitment of the People's Party to public workers, understanding their work as a fundamental element for the quality of these services. In this sense, we want to remember from our group what has happened in recent history because, ladies and gentlemen, in this matter we cannot understand the present and the future if we do not remember where we come from. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the Socialist Group, of what this country has experienced not long ago. I am not talking about eighty years ago or forty years ago, but less, about seven years ago, because there are things for which some of your ladies and gentlemen have a lot of historical memory and yet they lack the most recent memory. We can all remember when, in 2010, Zapatero lowered our salary to public employees, on average 5% since June, reduced our extra pay and frozen our pensions. [[Mrs. Serrano Jiménez makes negative signs]] That wasn't long ago. And that, ladies and gentlemen, was a consequence of the disastrous economic and budgetary policies of the two governments of the Socialist Party. That is what happens when the principles of budgetary stability and financial sustainability are not respected in a country, which in the end we end up paying all the officials, all the pensioners, all the citizens. We, the People's Parliamentary Group, recognize that, of course, action was taken in many areas in 2012, but there is a substantial difference between the socialist measures and the measures of the People's Party: that ours served and brought this country out of the crisis; theirs did not serve. [[Applauds]] The effort of the civil servants and of all in 2010 went through the drain because it did not serve either to prolong the public deficit or to improve public finances, while ours, those of the Government of Mariano Rajoy, have made it possible to clean up public accounts and, at the same time, to bring our economy back to growth and, above all, to job creation. That's the big difference. [[The lady]] Decisions were made and that is why this country was not rescued. Gentlemen of Podemos, remember the winds of Greece and what it meant for the Greeks the measures that were applied in that country. Ladies and gentlemen, from this past we have a present, a present in which the People's Party governs this country. It governs having won the elections in December 2015 and June 2016, because we have won and have done so with a fundamental commitment: the commitment to employment, the commitment to improving the quality of that job and, in particular, to public employment. This commitment to public employment has been worked on and is being worked on, negotiated and agreed with autonomous communities, with local representatives and entities, with trade union organizations. Negotiating and waking up. And from our parliamentary group we want to highlight this intense work of negotiation and agreement, agreement with the Conference of Presidents and agreement with the main trade union organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, we, the People's Party, are fulfilling and complying with our agreements, not as the Socialists are accustomed to. Here I would like to oppose our agreement - which will be implemented - to the Socialist Party's 2009 resolution and agreement, which in 2009 agreed to improve the working conditions of public employees and in 2010 we had a 5% reduction in salary. That's the difference. [[Applauds]] We have negotiated and agreed that the replacement rate should be increased in the priority sectors for the reduction of temporary employment, which will represent some 300 000 opportunities for 300 000 people, because we believe that it is a measure of equity that two people working in the same service in a structural place have the same working conditions. And, gentlemen of Podemos, stop scaring the interims, with the People's Party they have perfectly guaranteed their conditions and proof of that is the amendment we have tabled to make it clear that there is no attack on the interims. [[Mr. Delgado Ramos makes negative signs]] Mr. Spokesman of Podemos, review the amendments. [[Applauds]] We also want to continue to make progress in the wage conditions of public employees, which will increase again in 2017 by 1% if budgets are approved. Of course, a greater increase is desirable, but one thing is desirable and another is as different as possible, because wage increases must be compatible with budgetary stability and financial sustainability. The People's Group is aware of the consequences of confusing what we want to do with what we can really do. Ladies and gentlemen, my speech has been so because we cannot talk about this royal decree that is brought to validation today without talking about the draft General Budgets of the State for 2017. The ultimate purpose of this royal decree, as it is well recognized in its explanatory statement, is to respond to the needs arising in some areas of public administration. Socialists, we hope, so much so that you have asked us for this decree, that you will now comply with it and call upon the autonomous communities to offer public employment, especially in the educational field. We hope they do. [[Applauds]] But this, the solution that comes in this decree, is a partial solution, as it continues to be necessary to respond to the remaining offer of public employment, which is linked to the approval of budgets. Hence my intervention, which bets on the need to continue working when this royal decree is validated; to continue working, negotiating and agreeing for Spain to have budgets in 2017, so that more groups and more deputies join in the opportunities that these budgets bring to us for all Spaniards. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to say yes to the budget because that is to say yes to the replacement rates, that is to say yes to increasing the salaries of officials, that is to say yes to lowering the interinity. We are talking about more than 300,000 opportunities in the next three years. Saying yes to public employees contributes to improving the quality of public services. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Parliamentary Group and five more parties with which it has negotiated and agreed to have budgets in 2017 we say yes to all these improvements. Those who say they will not have to explain to the Spanish and public employees what interests they hide after that no, because not having budgets means limiting opportunities to public employees and to all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u23	Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2017, OF 28 APRIL, EXTENDING AND AMENDING THE WORK PROGRAMME FOR EMPLOYMENT. [[File number 130/000013]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u24	We now discuss the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 7/2017 of 28 April, which extends and modifies the Employment Activation Programme. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Employment and Social Security has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to appear in this House to present the Royal Decree-Law extending and amending the Activation Plan for Employment, a rule which we are subject to validation and which has as its main objective to maintain and improve the instruments for protection and, above all, for the activation of the unemployed in Spain, that is, to deploy tools necessary for no one to stay behind in recovery. In addition, we have done so with dialogue and consensus with the social partners in the framework of this social dialogue which is so important for the economic and social policy of this country, because it is essential, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a consensus that will allow us to move forward in this legislature on matters as important as more employment and of higher quality, equal opportunities in access to the labour market and the maintenance and strengthening of our system of public benefits to help those who have to make the transition from unemployment to their return to the labour market. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what moves us, so we work every day is for employment, for more and better employment in our country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u26	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u27	And what have we done so far, ladies and gentlemen? Since the end of the crisis, since the beginning of the recovery, the Ministry of Employment and Social Security has given a great boost to continue allocating resources to help the unemployed in Spain. From 2012 to 2016, for example, more than EUR 125 billion of unemployment benefits and allowances have been paid and we have advanced and completed the aid map with special programmes for the unemployed in our country. They know very well that it has been extended and strengthened, for example, the Preparation programme, with an increase of up to 450 euros in aid for those unemployed with family burdens, which has favored almost 700,000 people in Spain since 2011. On the other hand, we launched in 2014, the result of the constructive social dialogue, the Employment Activation Programme, which has served more than 233,000 people and which, together with the Preparation, have been the only two initiatives agreed upon in the period of government in office that we suffered in the last months of last year in this country because we know that aid to unemployment and policies to activate the unemployed are a priority for all groups in this House. We must therefore continue to make progress on something as important as activating talent and giving opportunities to the Spanish every day. That shared effort is also an effort that the Spanish have made as a society. I would like to thank from this rostrum those who are being the real protagonists of recovery in Spain, companies, SMEs, self-employed people, workers and also Spanish families. Thanks to them the recovery in our country is a social recovery because it brings the name of the job; look, from the beginning of the recovery there are already two million people working in Spain. All economic growth translates intensively into job creation and there is no more social recovery than that. Today we know that the European Commission is raising Spain's growth forecast for 2017 to 2.8%, which is a guarantee that more than 500 000 opportunities will be created in Spain this year. Therefore, recovery with employment, with intense job creation. But that does not please us, we have to continue to fight for opportunities, we have a lot of work to do, and that is why we need more jobs and more quality jobs. However, we have also made progress since the recovery in the quality of employment in our country. I'm going to read them statistical data without making political comments on it. Since the recovery, 91% of the recovered employment has been full-time; see, 72% of the indefinite employment destroyed by the crisis and 33% of the temporary employment has been recovered. If I may express myself, it is of higher quality that the job returns than the one that left. And I want to highlight a fact that seems significant to me: Spanish society has made it possible for this recovery to have been made with the longest period of increases in indefinite recruitment in a successive way in our economic history. We have chained thirty-nine months of continuous growth of indefinite recruitment in Spain, which has never happened before in our economic history. The longest, longest period before was between 2005 and 2007 in a very different economic scenario and was only twenty-eight consecutive months. I insist, that is the merit and commitment of Spanish society. [[Applauds]] He said it was an inclusive recovery, a social recovery, intense in employment, because there is no better social policy than that which creates employment and that is the great desire of all of us and the great goal of Spanish society. Please note that we have been making it possible since the recovery, 2014, 2015, 2016, moderate increases in the purchasing power of workers, increased competitiveness of companies and an average of 500,000 jobs per year. Here I would like to express special thanks for the responsibility of the social partners, who have been making a great effort since the recovery to improve the purchasing power of the workers in this country and to continue to create intense employment. It is a merit that we must recognize for their commitment and responsibility, but, as I said, there is a way to go, there is still a lot of work to be done. I told them that we have recovered 60% of the jobs that destroyed the crisis and this year we will recover all the national wealth lost in terms of GDP. But the goal of Spanish society is to reach those 20 million people working on the horizon of 2020 and we have to continue to bet on programmes that will facilitate the incorporation of the more than 3.5 million unemployed who are still in the public employment registers in order to get them to the labour market as soon as possible. Therefore, there is not a minute left for complacency, our whole endeavour is to work tirelessly for opportunities. The X-ray of what's left for us to do is next. I told them that we have 3.5 million people who want to work, who deserve to work and who have not yet found that job. Of these, ladies and gentlemen, more than 1.5 million have been unemployed for more than a year, and more than half of them, more than 50% of them, have little training, they have not completed compulsory secondary education. Therefore, in order for them to truly return to the labour market as soon as possible, to train them, to guide them and to train them quickly must be a priority for us. And that is why we have continued to work on social dialogue and political dialogue to improve activation programmes in the labour market, to focus on the individual orientation of the long-term unemployed and to be able to train them more quickly to find the jobs they deserve. It is no coincidence that the first social dialogue table we launched in this legislature was precisely the shock plan for employment. At that table we have dialogued and agreed on this extension, an extension as a first step because the objective of that social dialogue table is all the long-term unemployed. The programmes under way, the Preparation, the Active Income Programme and this same Employment Activation Programme will be evaluated together to make a large employment programme that really activates the unemployed and gives them opportunities as soon as possible. But, ladies and gentlemen, the first step comes with the validation of this royal decree-law because the Employment Activation Program has become a great program for opportunities. They know very well who it is addressed to: long-term unemployed workers who have no income and have family burdens. It is a programme that includes the implementation of activation policies to make the transition to employment faster, which contains specific guidance, training, retraining or recognition of work experience and the support for six months of aid of EUR 426. It is a programme that has already been the subject of an extension, as I said at the beginning, on 15 April 2016 and, since then, within the framework of the social dialogue, we have assessed its effectiveness with the social partners. The result of this evaluation is the changes, which are also being validated this morning. But that result has certainly been positive. Experience tells us that since it was born in 2014, the result of the consensus reached in Moncloa by the President of the Government with the social partners, has been an effective integration programme. Look, one in three people who went through the activation program has found a job. The programme has multiplied by ten the number of unemployed in all public programmes so far implemented by the Ministry of Employment. More importantly, 88% of those who made supplementary aid compatible with a wage continue after the programme as employees in the companies that inserted them. We are therefore talking about that the quality of activation has been achieved with this programme that we have launched together. So what do we do today? We renew it for a year; we maintain what works, but we also improve its integration capacity and the possibility of more beneficiaries entering this activation programme. What improvements do we bring in the royal decree-law? On the one hand, to allow access to all those who have exhausted any contributory benefit or unemployment benefit, not only those who came from the active income of insertion, the Preparation or the Prodi, as was previously the case. In addition, we reduce the waiting time to apply for entry into the programme from six months to one month, and the time limit for registration as an employment applicant is also reduced from 360 to 270 days. The inclusion of more beneficiaries in this programme is therefore facilitated. Finally, we facilitate through placement agencies the accreditation of active job search. Ladies and gentlemen, what we think of the social partners and the government is that with the changes incorporated in this extension we can extend access to the programme to more than 210 000 people, with a total expenditure - I like to say more total investment - of 537 million euros, of which 220 million will be implemented in 2017 and 317 in 2018. This is how we continue to effectively fight unemployment and improve the employability of the long-term unemployed. Therefore, the task remains urgent. We cannot miss a day in the fight against unemployment in Spain. We are asked by the citizens and it is certainly also the commitment of all the parliamentary groups and, of course, of the Government, to which I am very honoured to belong. But in order to apply this immediately I need the support of your ladies and gentlemen for this validation because, as you know, this programme ended on 15 April and it is important that as soon as we renew its implementation so that the people who are already requesting it in the employment services can be attended to as soon as possible. They also know that it has the consensus and positive appreciation of the Autonomous Communities, which see in it a program that is really giving activation opportunities to many unemployed people throughout the national territory. As I said to you, ladies and gentlemen, this is a first step because at the social dialogue table, at that unemployment plan table for employment, we want to make a full assessment of all the long-term unemployment programmes in Spain and put in place another great activation tool in line with this programme so that in Spain we really find the opportunities that the citizens deserve and that they still do not have and that we can all be able to add to employment so that 20 million people are working in Spain by 2020, which is what they need and the desire of all Spanish society. I look forward to your support for this validation. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. We're moving on to position-fixing. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President, good morning. While the data in Spain believe that employment is still being created and this must be recognised by the Government and its Minister for Employment and Social Security, there is still a large number of people who need to be made easier to work and it remains an absolute priority to move towards the great shared goal of this legislature, which, as Mrs Báñez has just pointed out, is the challenge of achieving 20 million workers by 2020, as the President of the Government himself proposed in the investiture debate. Ladies and gentlemen, it contrasts the evolution of employment in Spain with that in Asturias, a community in which unemployment is chronicled. Last April's latest data, like March's, put my community back on the line in Spain, recording the third worst development in the country as a whole and more than 2 points below the reduction in national unemployment. The Employment Activation Programme, EAP, has been useful, and the Asturian beneficiaries who have obtained work through the programme in relation to the total beneficiaries of the programme are above the national average, as is the percentage of EAP placements over the total number of beneficiaries. Hence in Forum we support the validation radiographed by Minister Báñez of this royal decree that extends and modifies the program until May 1, 2018, which involves donating and investing up to a total of 537 million euros in the EAP. As has already been said from this rostrum, it should be recalled that the EAP, which was born at the end of 2014, is the result of dialogue and social consultation to facilitate the social reintegration of long-term unemployed people with family burdens who have exhausted all benefits and allowances, i.e. all possible aid. The reduction of the time required to apply for access to the programme from six to three months will be very useful, as the statistics indicate that one in three people accessing the EAP is finding work, so that the modification of the time limits could allow access to the programme for more than two hundred thousand people who will be able to apply for it since the exhaustion of any unemployment benefit. The length of the applicant's stay as a jobseeker is also reduced from twelve months to nine months. Finally, another reason to support this validation is that since its inception the EAP grants have been received by more than 150 000 unemployed, far from the 450 000 initially planned, which justifies the modification of their access conditions. We shall vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u30	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, the mere fact that we should extend the EAP is indicative that unemployment, and in particular long-term unemployment, remains a very serious problem for our economy. It should therefore be emphasized that there is indeed a significant recovery in employment but that any complacent discourse in this area would be contradictory to the need to continue to protect those persons who, through the ordinary unemployment protection system, do not receive any benefits. Second question. The changes that have had to be made to this new Employment Activation Programme, the result of the dialogue with the social partners, indicate that the expectations which the Government has put into it have not been met. The Minister emphasises that the programme has served to include a significant number of people. Our figures, at least national, from last year and early this year, are about fifteen thousand people who have found employment with the program. Welcome be that, but the program intended to protect and provide opportunities for about four hundred thousand people. We are far from meeting those expectations. Let's see if the changes that are being made serve to facilitate that goal. The programme was therefore necessary, but it has been far removed from expectations. Third question. Again, the discussion of the EAP shows that our unemployment protection system has not been prepared to cope with long-term unemployment. In this regard, there is a pending parliamentary procedure, the result of the legislative initiative of the Workers' Commissions and UGT, to create the minimum income benefit, which serves to rationalise long-term unemployment protection. It seems essential to us that the legislative debate on this bill should not be blocked in this House. We must also remember that in the 2017 budget, already under way, we have more income through unemployment insurance than spending on unemployment protection. We have EUR 19 billion in revenue against an expenditure of EUR 18 billion. This should allow us to expand social protection for long-term unemployment. Fourth question. The Government's commitment to active employment policies is clearly insufficient. Today we spend less on unemployed people than we spent in 2011, when there were fewer unemployed people. Today we spend less on active employment policies than in 2011, and the budgets for this year continue to forget the priority of active employment policies. It must also be remembered, Madam Minister, that in this budget, which we are going to discuss 62% of the expenditure on active employment policies, which would have to be managed by the autonomous communities, it continues to be managed by the General Administration of the State, with a policy of subsidies which has been shown not to be useful for job creation and forgetting that the fundamental thing is guidance, training, reintegration and integration. There's a matter pending. Madam Minister - I conclude, Madam President - my group will vote in favour of this extension. We will ask for its processing as a bill to try to improve it and we hope that the Socialist Group, the Citizens Group and the Basque Group will accompany us and vote in favour of the processing as a bill. We are convinced that the Government has a lot of work to do in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u33	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. This Royal Decree-Law 7/2017 that is brought for ratification today is heir to the Royal Decree-Law 16/2014, which regulates the Activation Program for Employment, and the Royal Decree-Law 1/2016, which extends and modifies it, on this occasion. That, first of all, is indicative of something worth noting, and the problem remains. Secondly, when such measures were proposed, my group abstained, not because it thought that it was not worth adopting measures such as those laid down in this royal decree-law, but because it understood and understood that it affected the competences of the Basque Country. The problem remains, apart from its causes, but it is nevertheless a good thing that protection and activation measures are maintained for long-term unemployed with family burdens. We believe that they should be allowed access to the aid when they have exhausted any other unemployment benefit, also that the waiting period should be reduced to apply for it and that the registration period as an employment claimant should be reduced as a condition for applying for such aid. However, this is where we begin our critical message with the royal decree-law, because under that apparent cloak of social care there is also another reality, unfortunately for us repeated, and it is that again we find ourselves with an interference - we believe illegitimate - in the area of competition of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. That royal decree-law was in its day the subject of an appeal of unconstitutionality, which has not yet been resolved, in which, inter alia, the attribution to the State Public Employment Service of the direct management of actions through programmes set out in article 13 (a) of the Employment Act, today article 18. And despite having transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country through a Royal Decree, 1441/2010, functions and services in the field of the execution of labour legislation in this field - those carried out by the State Public Employment Service -, coincident with those of the Royal Decree-Law 16/2014, what has been done again is to want to camouflage with a simple and only purpose this reality, and it is to avoid that those powers that had already been transferred to the Basque Country in the field of the implementation of labour legislation were assumed by the institutions and by the agencies own of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. The problem is, moreover, that the Constitutional Court has recently added to this policy of guardianship of transferred powers in certain judgments on related matters, which has omitted to rule on the competences of the Basque Country in this matter and, above all, failed to give prominence and content to Royal Decree 1441/2010 approving the agreement of the Joint Commission on Transfers in the field of active employment policies. I was saying and saying that we continue to understand that this economic aid is appropriate, it is necessary, but we also believe that it shares the character of active employment policy, that is, we affirm that it is not a social security benefit as recognized by the constitutional norm itself and the actual decree-law that regulates it, when to mention the title of competence in which it is protected points to 149.1.13.a instead of 149.1.17.a, and also because we believe that it falls within what is part of the definition of active employment policies that governs the Employment Act itself. Of course, we continue to think that regardless of any agreements that may have been reached, the reference contained in that royal decree-law of inclusion of accompanying aid in the protective action for unemployment does not alter its legal nature, i.e. it does not make it an aid included in the unemployment protection regulated in Title III of the General Law on Social Security, nor at the contributory level nor in the assistance. But, above all, Madam Minister, in this discussion, a reason for efficiency. You know that these are subjects, competences and functions that have already been transferred to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country with a high degree of efficiency. Therefore, the functions transferred to the Basque Autonomous Community for the exercise of similar functions are achieving good results, and you know it. That is why, Minister, Madam President, apart from the competitive discussions, even apart from this interference which we believe is not peaceful, but tendentious to the Constitutional Court, even apart from political agreements which have already borne fruit, it would be good to recognise, through the appropriate mechanisms, the capacities of the Basque institutions in these matters. There are precedents and mechanisms to do so. I encourage her to push this path, although, in the meantime and for the reasons stated, not because we believe it is unnecessary, but because we believe that we can do so, we cannot give her our full support right now and we are going to abstain, unfortunately, because it would be our wish to be able to support her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u34	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u35	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. It is a decree-law that extends the Employment Activation Programme with some modification; we have already voted in favour of its extension last year and we will do so again this year, although the actual decree that brings us to the vote maintains important limitations that prevent access to the programme by many people who unfortunately need access to it. As the various trade unions have claimed, we believe that it requires a major change. Firstly, it is necessary to abolish the requirement of family burdens in order to be eligible for the programme. It makes no sense to limit anyone who is in poverty. Secondly, the beneficiaries of the programme must be able to reconcile the receipt of aid with income and aid from the autonomous communities and public administrations, a suggestion which I do not see any problem with. Finally, it must be possible to apply again for the programme if it has not been possible to reintegrate into the labour market. There is no justification for maintaining these limitations. It is true, however, that the extension of the programme is necessary and that it has been modified in the framework of the agreement of the Social Dialogue Table with regard to the Employment Shock Plan, so it deserves our respect. In this respect, we believe it is a good thing that the waiting period has been reduced in order to be able to apply for the aid, from the time when the receipt of any benefit has been exhausted, from six months to one month; that the period of registration as an unemployed person is reduced from 360 days to 270 days, within the 18 months preceding the application, and that access to the scheme is allowed to any unemployed person who has exhausted any unemployment benefit. What we continue to ask ourselves, Minister, is the triumphalism that derives from the statement of reasons for this royal decree and from any intervention by the Government. A country's GDP can grow a lot and remain a country with many poor people, high inequality rates, high unemployment rates and precarious job creation. I will only give you two facts that were known yesterday: Spain continues to be the state with the highest temporality rate in Europe, only behind Poland, and has been in government for five years. According to the European Central Bank, nothing suspicious institution of radical leftism, much less, the real unemployment of the eurozone - also published by the bulletin yesterday - is almost twice the official rate, according to the report of the European Central Bank, which also includes people who have a job but want to work more hours because they do not arrive at the end of the month, or work part-time in a submerged economy. That is, according to the European Central Bank, the real unemployment figures in Spain could reach 30%. Unlike what is said here, the same report indicates that the loss of purchasing power, i.e. actual wage figures, continues to fall. The trend has not been broken, much less, that is, the trend has not been reversed. Macroeconomic figures conceal a much more dramatic reality for the Esquerra Parliamentary Group, and we would like it to be self-critical once and for all and say that perhaps in these five years things have been done wrong or that there are things that could be done much better, because, I repeat, macroeconomic figures are much less dramatic than reality. On the other hand, your Government, in each Commission, in every medium of communication or in any plenary, draws figures from which I would not be so proud. I'm done. Esquerra Republicana will support the validation of this royal decree-law, despite the fact that we are talking about putting tiritas to a wound that bleeds to brows, such as the problem of unemployment and precariousness in the Kingdom of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u36	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Madam Minister, I understand that you have nothing but to cling to the improvement of employment data, even though this job created is completely inadequate, of poor quality and ultra-temporal, but the truth is that a quick look at the large numbers of unemployment and a picture of our labour market give a depressing image. Of the total of 23 million more or less active people in Spain today - many have already left the labour market - 4.2 million are unemployed, according to the latest EPA. Of those who are lucky enough to have a job, 6.5 million are precarious workers, poor workers who at the end of the year, despite being working, fail to reach the equivalent of the interprofessional minimum wage. In other words, Minister, in mid-2017, nine years after the crisis began, one in two workers in our labour market is in a situation of extreme vulnerability or at risk of poverty. Of all of them, of all the unemployed, the situation of the long-term unemployed, of the great forgotten of the system, is the most serious of all. They are more than half of the total unemployed, and 1.7 million people have been unemployed for more than two years; they are running out of resources to live. When a person has been trying to find a job for more than two years - you know very well, Minister - the likelihood of finding it decreases dramatically. The doors close almost before I can call. Most of these people who have been unemployed for more than two years are over 50 years old, are parents who have the right to have a chance again. In Spain we have been dealing with this problem for many years, we are repeatedly told by each and every one of the international analyses. The European Commission was telling us in a recent analysis - I quote literally from that report - that the existing programmes need urgently to be improved. The most vulnerable are not sufficiently covered. The incentives to reintegrate into Spain do not work. Our active evaluation policies are not effective and we suffer from a serious problem of coordination between programmes, measures and actors. The situation of our active employment policies is so serious that until very recently expenditure was neither monitored nor evaluated or controlled. How did the Socialist Party and People's Party gentlemen know what was going on with the money they were giving the unions every year to train the workers? How could they assess absolutely nothing if they had no instrument to do so? How could so many years go by without wondering if policies were working? Perhaps - I am addressing the Socialist Party - some preferred to look elsewhere to keep their partners happy and that they could in turn keep their client networks satisfied in the autonomous communities. The moment when control measures began to be introduced was when the surprise came. Suddenly we realized that the courses didn't work, that they didn't work at all and that there were massive frauds everywhere. The case of Andalusia, with the Socialist Party, is perhaps the bloodiest of all. They were so worried about the unemployed, they were so socialist that they spent years stealing their money for training without blinking. [[Applauds]] It is the money that offered them the only possible hope for the future, the only one, and the socialists took it into their pockets with the unions. By the way, this morning I read in the press with quite a surprise - I don't know if with a surprise, but I was quite amazed - that the last case of the Púnica plot is that the PP of Aguirre is being investigated for funding itself with 972 courses for unemployed people. We will see how the research continues; I just wanted to highlight that it seems that this was the norm in all the old Spanish politics. Fortunately, the PSOE no longer governs, the People's Party still does, although it no longer has an absolute majority, and things are starting to change. Since Citizens have been in this House, a first basic profiling system has been established to know at least what stops we have to implement the policies we need. It is impossible, without a basic profile, to make effective policies. This budget has also turned as a sock to the management of active policies in this country. At the request of citizens, EUR 12 billion is being devoted to training checks so that the unemployed receive the money directly and there must be no intermediaries who are either absolutely ineffective or directly thieves. [[Applauds]] Also due to the demand of citizens come 130 million euros dedicated to improving the individual orientation of the unemployed, a specific follow-up so that the unemployed can reintegrate, as is done in all models of success. And also by citizens' demand comes the changes that this Royal Decree-Law brings to this House today. As was the case in the agreement, the criteria and coverage of the Employment Activation Programme are expanded and this programme is extended for one year. Much remains to be done, but for that we need to believe that we can have a different work model. I'm done with this, ladies and gentlemen. In this House we have essentially three types of work model. The first is that which we have lived for thirty years, that of the People's Party and that of the Socialist Party, which, if they start looking at the data, is surprising because they have exactly the same unemployment level numbers and the same average numbers at precarious level, exactly the same results. It is a model to which we could call the bipartite precarious, a model in which half of the workers live basically in the weather. Then we have a model, that of the real progressives, our friends from Podemos, which is more or less characterized as the model of the bipartite precarious, but with a varnish of an anarcho-unionist account of the pre-industrial era. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u38	Mr. Roldán, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u39	I'm done. In Citizens we believe that another work model is possible, a model that combines the essential flexibility for companies to be able to offer employment with the necessary security to ensure that workers are always protected, a model in which there are no first and second-rate workers, a model in which we all share the same opportunities, a model in which individualized plans for reintegration into work are offered, a model based on education, training and knowledge, which assures us of decent wages for all in the future, a model in the end so that we can stop being ashamed and ashamed of those who vote for us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u40	Before giving the floor to the next group, I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that no videos can be recorded in the Chamber. I remember. Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u41	Good morning, President. Today we are here to discuss the Employment Activation Programme, which is evidence that working people in our country are living in a situation of total and absolute social emergency. This is one of the programs of the notorious 426 euros. With this year's budget banquet - it is a pity that Mr Montoro has gone -, with the budget nonsense, they will rise by 1% in this item, which is the chill of nothing more or less 4 euros. It should not be forgotten that the CPI forecast for this year is around 2%. Therefore, this benefit - this is important to say - will lose purchasing power over other years. It will be 430 euros for people in long-term unemployment and with family burdens. After this budget expenditure, we do not know how people are not celebrating it in Cibeles and Neptune or getting drunk, as Mr Montoro said. We are today discussing the unilateral extension, parliamentaryly speaking, of this programme. We would like to make a number of considerations. On the one hand, we welcome the fact that, as a result of trade union pressure, the spectrum of people who are eligible for the benefit has been broadened, even if it is dramatically insufficient. The current requirements left many people in the gutter, such as those without dependants. We also welcome the reduction in the time required to apply for aid, which is a 'only' one month of waiting after the rest of the benefits have been exhausted and not the eternal six months before, which caused nightmares for many people. What we do not appreciate so positively, and what no one has talked about here, is the empowerment of private placement agencies, in many cases ETT, temporary work companies, which will be able to directly credit the active search for employment in SEPE. This constitutes them per se in privileged intermediaries - it gives them great power - between SEPE - the Public Service of State Employment - and citizenship. Nor does it encourage stability in employment; it does not correct that philosophy - in our perverse view - on the compatibility of this aid with the employment contract of any kind that allows the aid to serve as a direct and unconditional subsidy - which is the bad thing - to companies that hire the beneficiaries of this aid. If we allow this aid to go directly to the companies' coffers in the form of a wage discount - which we all, of course, pay - we believe that the rule should oblige a minimum commitment of stability in the employment of these companies, and this does not exist in this royal decree-law. Nor do we appreciate the duration of the aid, which is clearly insufficient. Six months is very little time for activation and job reintegration of unemployed people who have been out of the market for so long. It is clear that we are faced with first-class political blackmail, as my colleague said earlier in the previous initiative. With 1.8 million people in this country who have been unemployed for more than two years and considering that thousands of families only have to survive this minimum amount, these miserable 400 euros, it is obvious that we will vote in favour. It would be crazy not to. But, even though we are going to vote in favour, we do not forget that we are being blackmailed by hunger and people's need. It is a shame that with that number of people suffering month by month, which I said before is 1.8 million, this program has arrived last year - you said, Minister - only 140 000 people. Just as it is a shame, as I said, the duration and amount of it. But there are two even more embarrassing things about which I am eager to hear real explanations. How are they going to pay for this aid if they have reduced the allocation in the General State Budgets - these of the budget drunk - from the 350 million budgeted for 2016 to 280 million this year? This means a reduction of 20%, which obviously does not correspond much less to the decline in long-term unemployment. How are they going to do it? Are these the most social budgets in history? How are the accounts going to work out? With magic? Or perhaps it is that you will do as last year, that out of the 350 million budget allocation for this aid only 127 were executed and in the meantime - I don't know in the neighborhoods where you live, in luxury urbanizations and so on - normal people send children without eating at school, have difficulty paying the bill for light and medicines. As this happens, you stop executing hundreds of millions of euros of unemployment aid. Are these examples of good management of the People's Party? Is this what worries you guys what's going on? It is essential that we treat this as a bill to ensure that aid is implemented, to increase its duration and amount, to remove power from private placement agencies and to give it to the public agency and its professionals, as well as to ensure the stability in employment that is created and financed by public money. We hope you have time to answer these two questions, if you take time from your two favorite occupations, which are talking about Venezuela and stealing public money, which is what you are dedicated to. [[Applauds]] From here I remind you - and I conclude this - that violation of human rights is also that children go to school without eating, it is also that people cannot pay for medicines or the bill of light. That is also a violation of human rights and it is happening here, in Spain, not in any other country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u42	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u43	Thank you, Madam President. With the publication on 29 April of the Royal Decree-Law 7/2017, which extends and modifies the Employment Activation Programme, the need for urgent measures to respond to millions of citizens is again on the table. Millions of citizens who, with the crisis and employment policies launched by the People's Party, continue to be permanently anchored in the status of long-term unemployed, making them the main protagonists of the picture of inequality and growing poverty in our country. The incapacity of the Government for employment and its lack of social sensitivity are clearly seen in the Employment Activation Programme, which, since its inception, has been a real fiasco. The triumphalist discourse of the People's Party on employment reminds us of the promise that the implementation of this programme would cost a total of EUR 1 billion during its lifetime... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u44	One second, Mrs. Raya. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u45	... between January 2015 and April 2016, exceeding 400 000 beneficiaries. However, reality depicts a very distant picture of the Government's objective. As of 31 March 2017, 230 000 applicants had been treated, of whom only about 150 000 have been beneficiaries of a benefit of EUR 426 per month, and expenditure has barely reached EUR 216 million. In addition, only 18% of the total beneficiaries -26,534 unemployed - have dropped in the programme because they have found a job. Ladies and gentlemen, only the unreality in which the People's Party Government lives explains that, following the strength of the figures set out above, those responsible for this programme remain in the boldness of reaffirming themselves in the effectiveness of this programme. At this point in the film, one can only wonder how the People's Party is incapable of considering what is happening so that its unfounded employment triumphalism can be translated into an unstoppable and progressive social impoverishment of Spanish society. If one day you decide to ask yourself what is wrong, look for some of the answers in the approaches that our country's leading trade unions have made at the social dialogue table and that you have accepted in part. You have put in place an employment activation programme whose requirements have been a real trap for people who wanted to access it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group feels that corrective measures are insufficient. However, we welcome the effort made by the unions to try to improve the requirements so that the number of potential beneficiaries, which is estimated to reach an additional 210 000, can be increased somewhat. We find it insufficient because, although access to it has been improved for any unemployed person who has exhausted any unemployment benefit, the time limit for applying for unemployment benefit has been reduced since any benefit from six months to one month has been exhausted or the time limit for registering as an unemployed person has been reduced from 360 days to 270 within the eighteen months preceding the application. They have forgotten - or perhaps forced, because of the urgency of its expiry on 15 April - to include some measures that were raised at the dialogue table and that would undoubtedly have contributed to a substantial improvement in the scope of the programme. Measures such as abolishing the requirement to have family burdens or the duration of the programme, which is set at six months and which is absolutely insufficient for long-term unemployed, or the possibility of compatibility of its perception with income from the Autonomous Communities. In short, this royal decree is a solid proof of the erratic labour policy of the People's Party. What we are dealing with is a real decree summarizing imperfections, which concludes in a fiasco more for the work of the People's Party Government in its failed and non-existent will to seek the conditions conducive to the creation of employment and the protection of the long-term unemployed, a collective without doubt in a clear situation of vulnerability. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, because of its responsibility and sensitivity to the workers concerned, will support with its vote the adoption of this royal decree because, first of all, we prioritize the dramatic situation to which thousands of Spanish workers and households have been subjected because of their labour reform. This obliges us to support the adoption of this royal decree, which is radically different from the solutions that the Socialist Group would formulate to alleviate the situation of the workers potentially beneficiaries of this programme. Our knowledge of the pressing living conditions of the workers, the fact that this presentation clearly insufficient for them constitutes the only burning nail to which they can cling to in order to survive, prompts us to the adoption of this decree, which, from the socialist perspective, has its status as temporary, because it does not by any means respond to the situation of the workers of this country. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on a social imperative, we will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree and announce that we will vote against its processing as a bill at the request of the main unions in this country, as you agreed at that negotiating table, but we certainly maintain our dissenting attitude to its content and reserve the right to present a more ambitious future proposal in terms of content that will give a better response to the people concerned, to the young, to women and to those over fifty-two years of age. I would like to remind the person responsible for citizens that fewer lessons have been learned because you have been complicit in the fact that these general budgets have reduced aid to unemployed people by 40% and cut back on active policies by 25%. Madam Minister, I agree with you on one thing, you have a lot of work to do. Stop advertising and start improving the quality of life of workers in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u46	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if job creation has been the main obsession of the government from the outset, the concern for those who have not yet had their job opportunity has not been left behind. This is the answer to this royal decree, ladies and gentlemen, which seeks to extend and, above all, to improve the Activation Plan for Employment as a working tool for the Spanish unemployed of longer duration because the Government and the People's Party care a great deal about people and, above all, those who are unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 2500 new jobs will be created in Spain today, the same as were created yesterday, the same as will be created tomorrow, the same as are created every day. Today in Spain the job creation has acquired a speed of cruise and an intensity that is gradually solving the unbearable situation to which we arrive with labor norms that, combined with the crisis, literally crushed the Spanish labor market. Ladies and gentlemen, today in Spain both jobs are created and in the other 27 countries together in the European Union. Today in Spain we have risen from 16 million to 18 million occupied, from members of Social Security. Today in Spain we have risen from 26% unemployment rate to 18%. Today in Spain we accumulated thirty-nine continuous months of increase in indefinite recruitment, which in 2016 grew by 13%, when in the years of the Socialist Party decreased to 30%; 43 points of difference in these six years. That means, ladies and gentlemen, that for the first time in the history of Spain we are going to overcome a crisis by creating indefinite employment thanks, among other things, to the effort in government aid to transform temporary contracts into indefinite ones. The number of short-term contracts, ladies and gentlemen, is the lowest in history; a very large number of jobs are emerging and 91% of jobs are full-time. Ladies and gentlemen, labour reform is favouring stable employment, although some are interested in bringing the opposite to Eurostat, to reason, to reality and to the indisputable truth of the facts. Employment, ladies and gentlemen, has become an engine of growth itself by raising demand. Young jobs grow to 10% and we have the highest figure in the history of working women, 46.40 % of the labour market, total employment, and the same is true of the disabled. Ladies and gentlemen, the Employment Activation Plan is bearing fruit. Long-term unemployment is falling to 16%; therefore, in the last year 83.9% of those who left unemployment were precisely these workers, the unemployed who do not have a job, the long-term unemployed. For this reason, it was and makes sense to continue to support these activation policies, to improve employability, to invest more than EUR 537 million so that 210 000 people can benefit from this, since up to April 233,000 applicants were treated and one in three beneficiaries was placed within 12 months of their incorporation. Another good news is that the Employment Activation Programme that drives this royal decree has been improved in order to incorporate more people, modifying the requirements to reduce waiting times, to reduce the registration time as an employment applicant, to facilitate the accreditation of active search and to better define the role of guardian throughout the process: in guidance, training, follow-up, retraining and also in the recognition of work experience. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party and its Government are very concerned about the labour integration of the most vulnerable groups and that is why active policies and passive employment policies have improved. The Plan prepares, the Special Activation Programme for Employment, the one hundred entrepreneurship strategy measures, recruitment incentives or the vocational training system are certainly good examples of this, which in April allowed the biggest monthly decline in unemployment in history and the best growth data for eleven years. Ladies and gentlemen, from this crisis we have learned many things, especially that there is a great correlation between education, education and employment. If today the unemployment rate is 18%, it is not the same for all, it is not homogeneous; for example, it is 10% among those with university studies; 20% among those with secondary education and 37% among those without university studies. It is precisely in the latter that long-term unemployment is gnawed and more persistent. But we have also learned that the quality of employment, ladies and gentlemen, is very much linked to the workforce. The factor that will determine more stable and better-paid jobs in the future will be the quality of the workforce, which is the same as education, training, the export-based economy, as is happening, to reduce job volatility. Not only is it important, indispensable, urgent and vital to have an education pact that provides the main tool for employment, which is good training; there is no better instrument to combat poverty and inequality than job creation; there is no better contribution to social justice than job creation. Ladies and gentlemen, in employment, in economics and in politics there are no magic solutions, but there are prescriptions, there are policies that work and that make societies more prosperous; there are also policies and prescriptions that do not work, that reduce well-being, that create problems for people. We, ladies and gentlemen, are going to continue to work and defend prudent and intelligent reformism so that people who are still unemployed can enjoy a serious government, a government that guarantees job creation, gives them hope and gives them a chance and of course an opposition that allows us to govern. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u48	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u49	We turn to the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions, with dossier numbers 110/000019 to 110/000032. If any of the groups do not wish to speak, unless otherwise stated, the opinions shall be put to the vote by consensus with the rest of the votes scheduled for today.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u50	We now turn to the agenda item on debates on all legislative initiatives and, in particular, on the draft law incorporating into the Spanish legal system Directive 2013/11/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on alternative resolution of consumer disputes. The Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, on behalf of the Government, has the floor for the bill.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear at the plenary session of the Congress to submit to you the draft law incorporating into the Spanish legal system Directive 2013/11/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on alternative dispute resolution in the field of consumption. In this legislature it is the first bill that, as Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, I submit to the House for consideration and that this first bill has as its object consumption is not a baladi issue. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u52	One second, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the minister is barely heard from the rostrum. Please, I beg your silence. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u53	Thank you, President. Consumer protection is a priority on the political agenda of this Government and of course of this ministry. Consumer relations affect 100 per cent of citizens and to protect them we have to balance their position on the market, a position of vulnerability in most cases, in order to predict and sanction any abuse that they may be involved in. The consumer protection policy of this Government is based on three pillars: first, the guarantee of the exercise of consumer rights; secondly, the training, education and information to consumers; and thirdly, the permanent coordination between the Spanish Agency for Consumer Affairs, Food Safety and Nutrition, the consumer services of the Autonomous Communities, the Consumer and User Council and all consumer associations in Spain. The first pillar is the guarantee of the exercise of consumer rights. As important is the normative recognition of rights as establishing effective channels for their exercise. Precisely this bill, as we shall see, directly affects this guarantee. This priority is also reflected in the 2017 draft State General Budgets, in which the programme for the protection and promotion of consumers' and users' rights is increased by 26.83 % compared to 2016. We are very aware of the relevance of the out-of-court dispute resolution mechanism through programmes in support of the consumer arbitration system, which allows the financing of arbitration boards attached to regional and local administrations. In addition, in this line of action, we constantly monitor the market to combat fraud and prevent abusive practices, ensure that products purchased by citizens meet the quality and safety criteria set out in existing legislation and inform citizens on time of the existence of products that may pose any kind of danger through the alert network. The second pillar is training, education and consumer information. In this regard, all the support programmes envisaged in the 2017 General State Budgets are key, including the support and subsidies programme for the promotion of consumer associations and the consumer information and documentation centre, which is the area responsible for developing and disseminating information to consumers and to organisations and administrations working to defend their rights. In short, in consumer protection we are paying special attention to the financial area, the energy sector and the new technologies. Let me quote just two recent examples from this start of the legislature, such as Royal Decree-Law 1/2017 of 20 January of urgent measures to protect consumers with regard to soil clauses and Royal Decree-Law 7/2016 of 23 December, which regulates the mechanism for financing the cost of the social bond and other measures to protect vulnerable consumers of electricity. A third pillar is the permanent coordination and concerted action of the Ecosan with, on the one hand, the consumer services of the autonomous communities and, on the other, with the Council of Consumers and Users and with all the consumer associations of Spain. Consumer protection will be more assured to the extent that we work together to achieve this shared goal. In this area we must highlight, among other things, the action of the European Consumer Centre in Spain, which is a public consumer service office in any Member State of the European Union that needs information or assistance in connection with the purchase of goods or the use of a service in a country other than its own, and also the Internet Observatory, of strategic importance within the framework of the Digital Single Market Strategy, which arises to protect the consumer on the Internet from the need to combat electronic fraud and promote responsible consumption. All these programmes are reflected in the draft General Budgets of the State. We firmly believe in the need for our consumers, in addition to ensuring their rights in e-commerce, to know how to protect their privacy, as well as their devices. To this end, we are working with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, the National Institute for Cybersecurity and the OCU in the dissemination of information that will make citizens aware of the media offered by the information society. As I said at the beginning of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, it is as important to recognize rights as to establish effective channels for their exercise, and precisely the bill is intended to be a guarantee for the exercise of consumer rights. This bill is structured into forty-six articles distributed in a preliminary title and three titles, three additional provisions, one derogatory provision and six final provisions. The draft law incorporates into Spanish law the Directive 2013/11/EU that I have mentioned to you. This law complies with the directive's mandate to ensure that consumers resident in the European Union are able to submit consumer disputes in our country to alternative resolution bodies that meet the requirements of the directive. The law, which is clear, does not regulate a new alternative resolution mechanism other than those already existing in our legal tradition, but, on the basis of these mechanisms, sets out the requirements that entities must meet in order to be able to be accredited for the purposes provided for in the directive. Entities wishing to be accredited and included in the list drawn up by the European Commission shall assume a number of obligations inherent in such recognition. For their part, entities that are not accredited will continue to operate in the same way that they have been doing so until now, without being able to operate in the field of European consumers. Consequently, the law has a triple object. First, to determine the requirements to be met by alternative dispute resolution bodies established in Spain in order to be able to be accredited. These requirements are grouped into three blocks: the structure and functioning of the entity, the resolution procedures they manage and the persons in charge of the resolution of these procedures. Secondly, the regulation of the basic aspects of the accreditation procedure for alternative dispute resolution entities which so request. Thirdly, the establishment of the obligations to be assumed by alternative resolution entities once they have been accredited by the competent authorities. It shall be designated as the national competent authority for the accreditation of alternative resolution entities to the Spanish Agency for Consumption, Food Safety and Nutrition, without prejudice to the fact that specific competent authorities may also be designated for the accreditation of those entities in specific sectors. In this sense, the law itself designates as competent authorities alternative resolution entities to carry out their activities in the financial sector, as appropriate. The Banco de España, the National Securities Market Commission and the Directorate-General for Insurance and Pension Funds of the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness are therefore accredited. In the specific field of air, the person holding the Ministry of Development is designated as the competent authority. The conflicts referred to in this draft law are all those of a national or cross-border nature arising between a consumer and an entrepreneur as a result of a contract for the purchase and sale of services concluded in person, electronic or telephone form. This bill excludes conflicts between employers, direct negotiations between the consumer and the employer, as well as procedures initiated or managed by employers. Among the requirements, the law obliges entities to provide more transparency guarantees to consumers and, therefore, obliges them to publish on their website information such as the types of disputes falling within their competence, the average duration of the proceedings or the persons responsible for resolving the conflict. Professionals who resolve disputes must act independently and impartially and demonstrate their knowledge of consumer protection. In the event of conflicts of interest, they shall refrain from continuing the procedure. This law does not require employers or consumers to go to these entities to resolve conflicts and it will only be mandatory to resort to these procedures when a sectoral rule so establishes. Once a solution exists, the parties shall have a period of not less than three days to decide whether to give effect, because the result of the procedure is voluntary acceptance unless a rule establishes its mandatory nature. As a novelty and in order to ensure the effectiveness of the procedures, the rule sets a maximum time limit of 90 calendar days from the filing of the claim and until now the time limit was six months. Therefore, we guarantee more agility in the process to consumers. The main objective of this bill is to contribute to consumer protection by ensuring that out-of-court consumer litigation procedures are independent, impartial, transparent, effective, prompt and fair. With this rule we help consumers to find a solution without having to resort to the judicial process, thus releasing the judicial burden for these cases of consumption. Finally, you will allow me to refer briefly to the amendments tabled in their entirety. The amending groups have stated that the bill does not respect the powers of the autonomous communities in the field of consumption. The content of the bill is part of procedural regulation because it sets out the minimum requirements to be adapted for alternative consumer dispute resolution entities. The draft justifies the jurisdictional title invoked in its first final provision on the basis of the exclusive competence of the State in the matter of commercial, procedural and civil law in accordance with rules 6a and 8a of article 149.1 of the Spanish Constitution. This has also been demonstrated by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, including its judgements of 1989 and 2010. The constitutional doctrine also recognizes the competence of the Government of the nation to establish the arbitral system of consumption and to establish the corresponding arbitral bodies. The purpose of this law is to resolve consumer disputes not only in the autonomic but also in the supraautonomic or cross-border sphere. Let us not forget that it is a law that will allow a European consumer to have access to our arbitration boards to conduct proceedings against a Spanish entrepreneur. We are therefore talking about a completely European area. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u54	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u55	Another of the doubts expressed by the amending groups is that there is no guarantee of impartiality and independence of mediators in conflict resolution. Well, it is enough for us to refer to article 23 of the draft law, which deals with the general principles of independence and impartiality of the persons responsible for resolving the conflict in which mediators are to be considered to be included. These principles of independence and impartiality are strengthened by the provisions of article 24, which set out the rules for action in the event of a conflict of interest of the person in charge of settling a dispute with the parties and lay down the basic rules for their abstention and refusal. The draft also sets out in articles 25 and 26 a number of specific guarantees which are additional to the general principles for strengthening the independence and impartiality of the persons responsible for resolving the dispute employed by professional organizations or business associations employed or remunerated by the employer claimed. As for the non-distinction between binding and non-binding conflict resolution systems and procedures indicated in the amendment, the bill does distinguish and define them. Moreover, the draft does not limit itself to distinguishing between procedures with binding and non-binding results, but in its articles 13, 14, 15 and 16 it sets out provisions with different scope as regards their application to one procedure or another, depending on the nature of its outcome. With regard to references to basic services or services of universal interest, neither the directive nor the transposition bill makes any difference in the requirements that entities must meet to be accredited, regardless of whether they are one or the other. Therefore, the Sindico de Greuges de Catalunya will be able to exercise its powers and guarantee rights in the field of basic services or services of general or universal interest, as provided for in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, which has been exercised so far, and can be accredited and notified to the European Commission provided that it meets the requirements required by the draft law. In the event that the Syndic of Greuges does not meet such requirements or does not wish to be accredited and notified, it may, however, continue to develop its functions as well. Finally, and with regard to the manifestation that the draft law allows both a natural person and a legal person to engage in alternative dispute resolution in the field of consumption, the transposition rule effectively permits accreditation as alternative resolution entities to natural or legal persons, of a public or private nature, in any event requiring them to meet the requirements laid down. However, if the accredited alternative resolution entity is a legal entity, the resolution of the conflict is exclusively the responsibility of natural persons, in accordance with article 22 of the draft, which refers to the conditions and qualifications of the persons responsible for resolving the disputes. Therefore, this point is already provided for in the bill and there would be no conflict of any kind. For all these reasons, I call on the parliamentary groups to allow this bill to be dealt with in order to guarantee consumers throughout the European Union a high level of protection in the resolution of their consumer disputes. In this bill we are not only talking about Spanish consumers, but we are talking about all European consumers. Therefore, any Spanish may appeal to an arbitral tribunal in another country to initiate an alternative dispute resolution file and any European may appeal to Spain to any arbitral tribunal to initiate a consumer dispute procedure. Therefore, in the exercise of their parliamentary freedom, I ask you to support them in order to better protect the citizens, in order to better protect all consumers, the Spaniards and the rest of the Europeans. I also ask you to support them to ensure transparency, because this bill gives consumers much more transparency, and to guarantee the honesty and justice of economic transactions between natural and legal persons. Above all, I ask you to support me in making Spain a benchmark in consumer protection. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u56	Thank you very much. Two amendments to this bill have been tabled to the full refund. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also, at this same time, establish a position, Mrs Nogueras i Camero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u57	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. This bill does not mention once the consumer powers of the Autonomous Communities, nor does it mention the consumer agencies we have. We started working on the draft, Minister, point by point, but there were so many corrections and modifications that we came to the conclusion that a bill of these characteristics could not be born on such a low-worked basis. Hence our amendment to the whole. We have not tabled an amendment to the whole of it free of charge, we have tabled it because this bill must be completely reworked. The Generalitat de Catalunya has always been in favour of having its own rules on the protection of consumers and users. In fact, Article 12.1(e) of the 1979 Statute of Autonomy already established that the Catalan Administration exercised powers in the field of consumer and user protection -1979-. In Catalonia we have a Code of consumption and several rules that deploy it, but there is more, much more. Article 123 of the Statute of Autonomy makes it very clear - and I remarcate it very clearly, minister, because reading the bill gives us the feeling that you have not done your duties - that the Generalitat of Catalonia has exclusive, own, full powers in the matter of consumption, and these exclusive powers are those which you have omitted in this bill. Therefore, we cannot accept any of the State's efforts for so many years in Catalonia. Article 113 of the Statute of Autonomy - I am not going to remind the PP and the PSOE too much of the terrible work they did with the Statute of Catalonia, the terrible favour they did to the Spanish State, not to mention the little shame that some had - takes up the competence of the Catalan Administration to deploy, apply and enforce the rules of the European Union. You have had a lot of time to make a draft law worked, rigorous, dignified and, instead, are among the four countries that have not done the duties, almost always on the podium, but on the podium of the wrong work done, and as you will understand, minister, we cannot give the OK to a draft law little worked and without consensus. I always hear you talking about dialogue, Minister, but one thing is theory and another is practice, and this bill shows that your appeal to dialogue, at the moment, is just smoke. This bill must be completely reworked if the purpose of progressing and achieving some innovative European policies is a real purpose of this government. And I am referring to innovative policies such as, for example, the classification of services established by the Catalonian Consumer Code, distinguishing consumer relations because not all consumer relations are equal, Minister. On the other hand, your bill does not make any distinction depending on the nature of the service; that is, for you there is no difference between paying an electric coming into conflict and buying a T-shirt. The Catalonia Consumer Code does specify the basic services of those who are not. The alleged balance between the contracting parties has disappeared. Only one party has the power to decide but not the conditions of the decision, because the other party sets them. Liberalisation of the provision of activities considered essential cannot lead to a reduction in consumer rights and guarantees. A law on alternative dispute resolution in the field of consumption has to give differentiated treatment to consumer relations affecting basic rights. As far as innovation is concerned, I'll talk about the Greuges Syndic. Article 78 of the Statute d'Autonomia de Catalunya attributes itself to the Syndic de Greuges - and I remind you that the syndic is the supervisor and collaborator of the Catalan Administration, whose function is to help improve its functioning - to be able to supervise the actions of private companies that provide basic services of general interest. In order to better analyse the development of a bill of these characteristics, it is important to have a clear picture of what is happening in Europe. In Europe, on the one hand, there are countries that defend and bet on a federal model of consumption, a model that respects the models of all regions, that is, a model that respects the competences of the regions. On the other hand, there are also countries in Europe that defend and bet on a centralist model. Curiously, the latter, the centralists, are the countries that represent the model of failure, countries that do not evolve, to which the limits and rigidities that are self-imposed cause them to retreat. This bill is a clear bet by this second group of countries, the centralist, the model of failure. We're very sorry, but we haven't come all the way back here, Minister. We have not worked so hard to be dragged away by an involutionary wave that you have perpetrated and which, among others, is illustrated by the example of the figure of the single competent authority. His extreme obsession with centralism - his and that of other parties that vote in favour of the bid to continue without taking the leap to the 21st century - only cuts off the powers of the Generalitat de Catalunya and, as I have said, we are not prepared to back down. We won't let them drag us. If you prefer to keep wandering rather than talking and working as a team, it seems irresponsible to me, but do whatever you want. Now, don't count on Catalonia's sanitat on that straight road to the abyss. I fail to understand why you strive to be the proof that failure is not improvised. This bill is a mistake that could otherwise have been implemented with consensus, dialogue and networking. Nor can I understand his disinterest in the deployment of Catalonia, his disinterest in the investment in Catalonia. It seems to me that you could take advantage of the progress that has been made in this area in Catalonia. Why don't you do it, Minister? This project also does not guarantee the impartiality of mediators. Decree 98/2014 of 8 July 2014 on the mediation procedure in consumer relations stipulates several rules that guarantee this impartiality. While it is interesting for companies to participate in the financing of the system as part of their corporate social responsibility, we must be very clear - and it seems that you do not have it too much - that it will only be beneficial for the whole system if the independence and impartiality of third parties are guaranteed, as well as if the trust of both parties in the system is guaranteed. And far from all this theory, in their proposal they admit without blushing that a person who is directly and exclusively remunerated by the company can exercise as a mediator. They also provide for a minimum amount and a maximum amount, where the claims are often above or below the amount they have set. In fact, if this bill had been passed earlier as a law, in Catalonia we would not have been able to resolve many of the conflicts with the preferred interests because they were excluded by the amount. It is not a bill that invites you to think that behind it there is a clear idea that we are doing the best for citizens. The citizens expect from us something more than four unworked lines; they expect us to solve the problems and not to hide them or patch them. They expect us - and we have an obligation to do so - to be rigorous, but also flexible. Take the project, sit down with all the political formations in this House and then they will move forward. I am unable to understand that mania of yours and of other political parties to entangle, to ignore that there is diversity here and that the only solution to move forward is to negotiate, to dialogue, to agree; and if we also leave the prepotence at home, much better. I insist, not only do I say that for the People's Party. As I said, citizens expect much more from us and, therefore, before I finish, I address the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. You are in favour of the referendum, you are alongside those who defend democracy, you have very clearly to express yourself in favour of voting has nothing to do with being or not being independent. I will vote yes, probably most of you will vote no, but we will vote. And today, which we are doing politics, I appeal to the compañeros and compañeros of Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to vote with us to reject this unacceptable invasion of competences. A abstention will not differentiate any party from the People's Party. And the same goes for the comrades of the PSOE, especially the comrades of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, who are not here today. [[Mrs Batet Lamaña: Yes, there is.]] What's the matter with the Socialist? Excuse me. So you guys are out of your league. This project is based on breaking down our competences, the competences of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Do not help to load the good work to back down, and less to back down under the umbrella of centralism. Obviously, I am not going to ask for anything from Citizens, as they have demonstrated with great difficulty that they have no interest in defending and respecting the competences of the Generalitat de Catalunya. They seem to be more interested in other stages, I say other things. Catalonia is the economic engine of a country we now know as Spain. And I say for the moment because, as my father said, the best negotiation of a bad negotiation is to close it - the best business of a bad business is to close it - and here today there are many responsible that the relationship between Catalonia and Spain has become a very bad business for the citizens of Catalonia. Put your theory of dialogue into practice, Minister. Perhaps, if Mr. Mariano Rajoy had done so before, my group's spokesman today would not be unjustly disqualified. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u58	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u59	Members, Members, Madam President: the scorpion and the frog. I'm sure many of you remember the fable attributed to Aesop in which a scorpion asks the frog to help him cross a stream, a river, and in the middle of the stream the scorpion bites death to the frog. To her question, the scorpion answers: It is instinct. I am sure that the Minister has very competent legislators who know the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy, but the centralist instinct is imposed, despite the harmful consequences that it can have. But, Minister, it's instinct. This instinct leads to no statutes of autonomy. Of those dusts these muds. Recently, this morning, I was commenting on the Spanish Constitution with Mikel Legarda, because, yes, I know the Spanish Constitution and you sometimes seem to not remember it or have a partial vision. Apart from the preamble, which speaks of the Spanish nation, and some small article, we speak of the State, because the Constitution is the result of a dialogue that you have already forgotten: dialogue is not necessary, what is needed is to impose, and instinct; the centralist instinct with which you are once and for all trying to change the political model of this country. From these dusts these sludges: from Aznar and the aznarate to this reality that we are currently suffering. Not only is there a flagrant invasion of competence. You say you love Catalonia very much, but there is nothing worse than forgetting, and you constantly forget these skills. We do not forget and think that a deployment like the one you are doing drives us out of this Spain that, if it were a state of nations, we could talk about it, but, if it is a nation with a single system of understanding the nation, its model, we are not at this time with you. Not only do they forget the competences of autonomy, but they often - and this is also part of their instinct - forget rights. What a pain in the ass about rights! Rights constantly force you to have an open attitude. Basic rights, such as water, such as light, are confused with other rights and you treat them in the same way to confuse the ability of citizens to defend their rights. One recurring thing in recent times: independence in all its aspects - political, social and judicial - also affects mediators. It seems that an independent mediator is full of suspicions, are habitual suspects, and you in your project make the independent mediator very difficult. This takes us even further away from your project. The Greuges Synod is not a complement, it is a fundamental element of understanding the democratic model. It is no wonder that the unions appeared in Sweden, which is an advanced democracy, in which the mediator is a prosecutor who does not accuse and is a judge who does not judge, but who favors the citizen being represented in his rights before any administration. You don't constantly join the Greuges Syndic of Catalonia, because independent voices, of course, are annoying, but to do politics is to solve problems and not seek the chorus of friends who come out to applaud what you do. The syndic of Greuges in this project remains unpunished. We, who defend democracy because we are Republicans, are opposed to these points, one after the other. That is why we have tabled a refund amendment. To his centralist instinct we respond with our republican will. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u60	Thank you very much. At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. The government has brought us a draft law based on the transposition of the directive which obliges the Member States of the European Union, as the minister has said, to guarantee consumers the possibility that conflicts within its scope can be resolved by which they are called alternative resolution entities. To this end, States should ensure that entrepreneurs established in their territories have the possibility to go to a resolution entity established in that State and that consumers are guaranteed the possibility of resolving their conflicts by going to a resolution entity established in any State. This is the part he proposes. This objective and purpose referred to in the Directive are set out in Article 1 of the preliminary draft in such a way that the legislative text seeks, on the one hand, to establish guarantees for consumers concerning access to alternative dispute resolution mechanisms in the field of consumption and to include the requirements to be met by these alternative resolution bodies. This preliminary draft governs in a preferential way the establishment of legal guarantees allowing consumers resident in the European Union voluntary access to instruments for alternative resolution of consumer disputes. It is therefore a matter of ensuring consumers' and users' rights, and this is a matter which is the exclusive competence of the Basque Autonomous Community. I very much liked Mr Olòriz's reflection on instinct, which when it starts to work modifies even existing legislation or interprets existing legislation so that instinct has room. Article 10.28 of the Statute of Gernika states that we are competent in this matter. This project almost completely obviates the existence of autonomous communities - not that of Euskadi or the competition - at no time does there appear the existence of the autonomous communities that are competent in the field of consumer and user protection. [[The Lord]] The only and few autonomous references envisaged in the text of the preliminary draft are in its final part, Chapter 2 of Title III, and have negligible relevance, Minister. The aspect in which the omission of any autonomous intervention is most repugnant, without a doubt, is that of the authorities responsible for the accreditation of alternative resolution entities, the terms that you regulate in the famous article 27, which for us is the cornerstone, in which we do not agree at all with the transposition that you have made. Article 27(1) sets out a single competent authority at State level, the Presidency of the Spanish Agency for Consumption, Food Safety and Nutrition, for the accreditation of alternative resolution entities, and does so on a general basis for all economic sectors, without distinction or exception. In other words, this preliminary draft law constitutes an absolutely centralized and centralizing system for the granting of accreditations of alternative dispute resolution entities. It is of little value that the second paragraph of this paragraph 1 of Article 27 states that: 'In addition, by means of a rule of legal rank or regulation, other competent authorities may be designated other than the one envisaged...', because in this very preliminary draft the state legislator - you - has had the opportunity to respect directly the autonomous powers in this matter and to establish this express legal provision of the existence of the autonomous authorities empowered to accredit alternative resolution entities. We, as this project is, cannot support it at this time. If you promised to say that in the law itself it will include that the autonomous communities are competent and will have the same rank... But, having heard your speech, you have appealed to an article of the Spanish Constitution, you have said that article 149.1 gives the State legislative commercial power. I'm sorry, that authority belongs to you when there's a topic between an entrepreneur and another entrepreneur. That is the business, but in this case it is not a business relationship, it is a consumer competition relationship in which there is an entrepreneur and a citizen, who has to fight. Therefore, it is not the enabling title that you apply. If not what it is to have a consumer competition? You are applying a commercial competition, there would be no consumer competition. Therefore, this does not make it possible - I said - for more than one competent authority to exist. You remove the legal rank of the competent authority that may exist. A fully centralized model such as the one you are applying in this bill cannot be admitted. The preliminary draft outlines a centralized and unique system of accreditation of alternative resolution entities, which absolutely ignores the existence of autonomous communities and which absolutely ignores the competence that these autonomous communities have. Moreover, the State self-assigns itself, appealing to a competitive title that is not its own, and says that it is the sole authority. You are drawing - already told by my two colleagues who have preceded me - a territorial scenario outside the existing one, because those who are skipping the law are you, those who are transforming the existing legislation are you, not us. We say: The law, the Constitution and the statute say this. We would also like them to say other things but for now they say this and therefore we appeal to what they say. Well, they don't care. Madam Minister, this bill maintains this article 27, when European legislation does not enter into how you organize your state and does not say whether there must be one, two or three, but says that we organize internally as we see fit that Europe is not going to get involved. But you say: Since Europe does not say it, I will say it: a single authority, which is that of the State. As long as this continues, we will not be able to support this. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u63	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, among the few things that all economists - or at least serious ones - often agree that free trade and the abolition of borders improve productivity and enable consumers to improve the quality of the items they consume and the prices, which are directly derived from competition. They also agree that, in the long term, all these advantages greatly outweigh any inconvenience that protectionism can offer to local entrepreneurs in the form of barriers or tariffs. That is why fragmentation of the internal market is a burden on competitiveness, growth and job creation. True to this spirit, Article 26 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union defines the internal market as an area without frontiers in which the free movement of goods and services is guaranteed. Within this general market, the level of protection given to consumers is fundamental and, in this regard, both the Treaty on the Functioning and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union devote special attention to it. As the Minister has pointed out, and as the very explanatory statement of the directive which is now being transposed, it is not enough to recognise consumer rights if we do not then guarantee channels for the exercise of their rights and effective methods of conflict resolution. This is the object of this project, it doesn't have much more mystery. All of us, the Members of Parliament and the citizens we represent, are consumers and for the same reason we have all been involved on some occasion in endless claims with national companies or, worse still, other countries in which to demand changes or returns or make all kinds of claims has been an impossible mission. The objective of the alternative resolution of consumer disputes that this project brings us must be to offer a simple out-of-court solution - in the sense of easily understandable by consumers -, affordable - in the economic sense - and effective - in the sense of resolution. This solution must, of course, be guaranteed for both online and non-online transactions, and for those between consumers and businesses in the same country, as well as between consumers and businesses in different countries. This is nothing new, in the last two decades the Commission has shown its concern not only about consumers' access to the courts but also about the regulation of alternative methods of conflict resolution such as mediation, conciliation or arbitration. In fact, Spain had been a pioneer in this, having opted for arbitration as a procedure for resolving consumer disputes since the General Law on Consumer and User Defense of 1984, which already required the Government to establish an arbitration system. In Europe, the road opens with two recommendations from the European Union, one from March 1998 - which has already rained - and the other from April 2001 on these principles applicable to bodies responsible for the out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes, but unfortunately, as the directive itself recalls, these mechanisms have not been properly established or operate to the full satisfaction of the Union as a whole. To begin with, there is a problem of knowledge; consumers and entrepreneurs often remain unaware of these alternative channels, as can be deduced from the restricted percentage of citizens who know how to lodge a complaint with these entities. But, in addition, coverage is not similar in all countries of the Union; alternative resolution mechanisms have either not been properly established or do not work satisfactorily in all geographical areas or in all business sectors of the Union. It also happens that even when alternative resolution procedures are in place there are no uniform levels of quality across the European Union and, as an additional difficulty, these entities do not always effectively resolve cross-border conflicts. Therefore, disparities in knowledge, coverage and quality hinder the effective establishment of an internal market, deter many consumers from buying across borders because they do not trust in the resolution of potential conflicts and, for the same reason, entrepreneurs often have little incentive to sell their products in other Member States, given the doubt that there are high-quality resolution procedures. In short, any attempt to effectively develop the internal market requires the development of a simple, affordable and effective resource system; strengthening consumer confidence and providing it with the means to claim is essential. For all the above reasons, we are in favour of this draft and we will vote against the amendments as a whole. Mr Olòriz, in the fable that you have presented to us to describe your position, it is not clear to us who should have the irrepressible instincts and who should have the role of the frog. [[Applauds]] In any case, we will support the project. However, like everything else in life, the project can be improved, so we will go with an open mind to the phase of partial amendments and we will be ready to support all those who contribute to improving the text. In fact, we have already tabled our own amendments on a number of considerations. For example, the directive says that the procedure must be affordable and that, therefore, it must be a symbolic amount for the interveners. We suggest limiting the maximum amount that appears in the project. We have also called for the removal of the upper and lower limits from which we can no longer resort to these procedures because, among other things, the directive does not say anything about this. This is one of the objections raised by the Member of the PDeCat and with which we agree. We have other amendments that we will be tabling at the time. In any case, we are convinced that we have the opportunity to get a good text, so that we take advantage of it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u64	Thank you, Mr. Navarro. Mrs De la Concha GarcíaMauriño has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency, other assistants, good morning. Surely many of you will have seen a documentary entitled The Salt of the Earth. The salt of the earth is a documentary made by Sebastião Salgado, known photographer, who after going through conflicts, countries and seeing horrors fell into a deep depression and helped by his wife decided to return to the land of her parents in Brazil, of which she remembered her childhood. When it arrived there that land had disappeared, it was herma, it was a desert, it was full of cracks, it was a pure desolation. Again, with the help of his wife, they started a project to recover the forest and realized that when they put the forest, when they recovered the trees and grass, the animals, the jaguars and the birds, that is, the habitat conditions the inhabitant. We are responsible for the institutional habitat and depending on how that habitat will be our citizenship, will be the public servants, will work our society. If instead of a forest or a field we choose a tern, we will be filled with seagulls, we will be filled with rats and we will be filled with worms. [[Applauds]] The good news is the forest always wins. Under Madrid there is a forest, people don't remember, but if a hole was made, he would come out alone. The forest always wins. If a manure plant is removed, the land takes advantage of the fertilizer and sprouts again. I think we're responsible for this regeneration. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u66	Wait a minute. Please be quiet so that we can listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u67	Thank you. We now have to adapt a European directive on consumer arbitration. This directive says that it must be adapted to the legal forms and style of each country. But what is the style of Spain, what is the style of our country? Today, our country has become the 'frog, it always plays', but it really does. I mean, we can look at the electrics, we can look at the phone, we can look at the water, all basic goods, but if we scratch, we find. This is the style we have in Spain now: scratch you, which you will find; wherever there is public money, which you will find; wherever there is business, which you will find. This is what consumers find when they face very powerful and very large companies in conflict of interest with things as basic as mortgages, banking services, telephony, food. How do you stand up to this? In this bill we are offered the possibility of private meetings, but no, but a little, but you will pay, but not too much... Who decides these limits? Who are they for? Who decides if 30 euros is much or little? For those of us here it may not be a big deal, but if I were one of the cleaners at Menorca Airport and it took more than two and a half months without paying, 30 euros would be a world because I don't even have the money to take the bonus. Who defends this lady? This company that maybe... that's not private... but yes... but what a joke... We've lost confidence, gentlemen. How are we going to have confidence if we are constantly, as is commonly said, bent? How are we going to have confidence? We have to keep our eyes open. [[Applauds]] We're here to defend the citizenry, we're paid for the citizenship. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u69	The institutions are citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u70	Wait a minute, Mrs. De la Concha.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u71	They pay it every time they buy a pack of tobacco, every time they take off the phone, apart from with their annual or quarterly taxes in the case of the self-employed. We do not like this law that privatizes, that is judge and part of the juntas that are proposed, that does not equip the autonomous and municipal arbitral juntas that we already have. It's the old trick of discrediting the public so that people choose to be private. The competence of the autonomous communities is being undermined as it seems that we only remember the Constitution for a couple of articles and the universal geography for a couple of countries. It does not include self-employed because it says they are not consumers. I have been autonomous for almost thirty years, my God, and I would not be included in this resolution of conflicts nor would my fellow bookmakers! This bill violates the spirit of the first Consumer Protection Act of 1984, and article 51 of the Constitution is omitted, and all this without going into matters of maximum and minimum, as has been said before, and with which we fully agree. As a PDCat partner said, one starts patching and eventually runs out of skirt. This law must be done from the beginning. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Concha. Mrs Tundor Moreno has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u73	Good afternoon, now. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, today at the plenary session of this House we are debating the whole of a bill transposing into Spanish law an important European directive for the alternative resolution of consumer disputes. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u74	Wait a minute, Mrs. Tundador. Ladies and gentlemen, I know it is the end of the plenary session and it is the end of the morning, but I would ask you, please, that if you have to hold very important negotiations or talks, you do them outside the Chamber because, if not, it is very difficult to hear the person you are talking about. I'm sure you understand perfectly, so please, I beg your silence. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u75	And I say that it is important because, regardless of the rights that our laws may recognize, they become wet paper if there are no adequate channels for consumers to enforce those rights. We understand this very well, ladies and gentlemen, when we set in motion during the governments of Felipe González the arbitration system of consumption, a paradigm in Europe of the alternative system guaranteeing respect for consumer rights. Anything that implies progress in this regard will always support it. Aware of our obligations as a Member State of the European Union, we are not going to block its processing and we are not going to delay its incorporation into our domestic law. It is also a directive where the Socialists see an opportunity to improve the channels that protect consumer rights. To that end, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to amend some of the provisions of the draft law and the Socialist Group will be submitting amendments to that effect. For example, the draft law of the arbitral system will have to issue its awards within 90 days, but it is necessary to provide the arbitral boards with sufficient material and human resources to do so. It should be recalled that management aid to consumer arbitration boards has been frozen since 2011 and no economic plan to strengthen our public resolution system is incorporated into the bill. In addition, it is intended to accredit as consumer dispute resolution bodies those in which the persons in charge of the resolution are employed or remunerated by the employer claimed. Except in the case of France, no other European country has brought the transposition of the directive to these terms: allowing accreditation to entities paid by the employer claimed. The Socialists have tabled amendments to remove this possibility from the draft. So far, experience requires us to be cautious. In Spain there is no tradition regarding this kind of entity. However, since 2002 in the Spanish system, alongside the figures of the defender of the bank client and the insured, they have begun to create client defense services in large companies. These figures, which have emerged voluntarily under corporate social responsibility programmes, have shown shortcomings in meeting consumer claims. We believe that we should not depart from the approach followed by virtually all the Member States in this respect. On the other hand, maintaining this criterion would give rise to a situation of confidence for consumers who travel, buy online or even make different transactions in different European Union markets, which is very beneficial to the economy of all Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, in the process of amendments we are also proposing to maintain the principle of free of charge in consumer complaints. As mentioned above, the project introduces the possibility that consumers will have to pay a symbolic cost of up to 30 euros; a symbolic cost that breaks with our tradition and that can cause consumers to stop claiming their rights in the face of the texture of having to pay in order to be able to demand them, especially in small claims. This bill leaves out claims of less than EUR 30 and more than EUR 10 000, i.e. the procedures below that amount would be outside the system of alternative resolution of consumer disputes, leaving only the judicial route to the consumer and that approximately 90% of the products and services we purchase daily have a value below that amount: purchases via the Internet, purchases in supermarkets, catering services, journeys in public and private transport. The Socialist Group believes that the system of alternative dispute resolution must be universal and that there must therefore be no limitation on the basis of the amount claimed, since it represents a guarantee for consumers in their relations with businesses. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u76	Silence, ladies and gentlemen! [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u77	With regard to the issue of competition, we do not find sufficient grounds to prevent the competent authorities within their territorial scope for the accreditation of alternative resolution entities, without prejudice to the competence of the State to accredit those of a supra-autonomous nature. I have already announced an amendment by my group in this regard. We will also try to correct in the course of partial amendments the absence of a sanctioning regime to ensure compliance with the requirements imposed on accredited entities. Our parliamentary group is presenting amendments along these lines and is adding as a novelty that the amount of sanctions is intended to strengthen our public alternative resolution system, our consumer arbitration system. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not support the amendment as a whole they have made, but we hope that the work that we all do in this House in the work in the Commission will improve the project. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tundor Moreno. Mr De Arriba Sánchez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u79	President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Communication of the European Commission of 13 April 2011 entitled Single Market Act, it could be read: The single market is a reality for consumers in their daily lives when they travel, buy and make payments, but citizens often continue to face numerous obstacles and do not have full confidence in the possibility of redress in the event of problems. In order to relaunch the single market and in particular the digital single market, it is therefore essential to strengthen consumer confidence in the exercise of their rights. We have moved from a first stage of recognition of consumer principles and rights to a second stage in which it is essential to equip ourselves with the instruments that can generate confidence and the appropriate channels so that we can effectively enforce recognized rights. Ladies and gentlemen, this law does not regulate or develop alternative dispute resolution procedures, but merely sets out the requirements for improving and harmonising the quality of alternative dispute resolution bodies to which consumers and employers can rely for the resolution of their disputes, in order to give greater legal certainty. The draft law, which focuses on meeting the objective of incorporating the European Directive into Spanish domestic law, is a new impetus in consumer protection policy at Union level. Consumers must have the same level of protection regardless of the Member State in which they are located. The aim of this project is to contribute to the smooth functioning of the internal market by ensuring that non-judicial consumer dispute mechanisms are available within the European Union, which are of high quality because they are independent, impartial, transparent, effective, rapid and fair; to enable consumers to find a solution to possible disputes with national or cross-border entrepreneurs within the European Union arising from their contracts for the sale or provision of services and whether or not concluded via the Internet, regardless of the relevant economic sector, without having to go to court. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u80	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u81	Ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT and Esquerra Republicana, as established by the system of competences within the framework of the Spanish Constitution, it is the responsibility of the State to regulate the basic conditions guaranteeing the equality of all Spaniards in the exercise of their rights and in the fulfilment of their constitutional duties, as well as the Administration of Justice, civil law and procedural legislation, without prejudice - of course - to the necessary specialties that derive from the particularities of the law of the autonomous communities, all mentioned in the field of protection of consumers and users. As our Minister of Health said, the content of the bill is part of procedural regulation, since while no regulations or procedures are developed, the minimum requirements to be adapted to those offered by alternative consumer dispute resolution entities are laid down for notification to the European Commission. The nature of the content of the draft justifies the competitive title invoked in its first final provision on the basis of the exclusive competence of the State in the field of commercial, procedural and civil law, in accordance with the sixth and eighth rules of article 149.1 of our Constitution. This has also been demonstrated by the judgement of the Constitutional Court 15/1989 on its legal basis first, and by the same judgement 31/2010 of the same court in relation to Article 123 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, to which reference is made by amendments. With regard to the claim that the Generalitat Consumer Code contains general provisions applicable to any mechanism for extrajudicial settlement of consumer disputes, it should be recalled that, in order to oppose such a claim, the Constitutional Court's jurisprudence on the competence of the Government of the nation to establish the arbitral system of consumption and to establish the corresponding arbitral bodies. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the professionals who resolve the disputes must act independently and impartially and prove their knowledge. Moreover, the specific requirements to which the law refers have been strengthened in relation to those required by the directive itself; it is sufficient to refer to articles 23 and 24 of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that neither the directive nor the draft law makes any difference in the quality requirements that entities must meet to be accredited or as a result of their accreditation on the assumption that they offer the resolution of one type or another of consumer disputes. Finally, the transposition rule makes it possible to accredit natural and legal persons of a public or private nature, in any case requiring them to meet the requirements laid down in the draft. However, the resolution of the conflict is exclusively the responsibility of natural persons in accordance with article 22 of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, you have entered the routine of rejection simply, without proposing or providing any alternative. You've entered a loop where at some point you'll have to stop and think about what's driving you. In an increasingly globalized and internationalized world, they continue their obstinacy for separatism. It is you who are obsessed. Even if they take advantage of any reason, they do not intend to convince us that their particular interests correspond to the general interests of Catalans. Our instincts. You are in the exclusionary, we in collaboration and understanding between administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, more exciting than our common past, which is, is our common future, remember that. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to aim to make Spain a respected and more competitive country within the euro and the European Union and to work to make this Union stronger and more cohesive every day, because this will undoubtedly benefit the growth and development of our economy, that of all Spaniards and Europeans. We must continue along the path of responsibility and be generous with the general interest. We need the rigour, collaboration and commitment of all of us to keep Spain on the path of inclusive growth. Much remains to be done, and this is clear to the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, consumer protection has been, is and will be a priority for the European Union and the Government of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u82	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u83	We move on to the agreement on direct and read-only processing of the proposed law on the amendment of Law 17/2006 of 5 June on State-owned radio and television, in order to regain the independence of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. This item will be put to the vote without debate, with the rest of the votes scheduled for today. In five minutes the votes will begin. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun voting. We begin with the consideration of propositions of law. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. First, we voted for the proposed law of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress and Socialist, amending Law 1/1996 of 10 January on Free Legal Assistance. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 338 plus 2 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 272 plus 2 telematics votes, 274; abstentions, 66.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u85	Consideration shall be given to the proposal for a law. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States may, in common, derogate from the maximum period provided for in the criminal prosecution law. [[File number 122/000086]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u86	We now proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, repealing the deadline for the investigation in the Criminal Prosecution Act. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 plus 2 telematics votes, 340; 204 plus 2 telematics votes, 206; 132; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u87	The proposal is therefore taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u88	We then vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the effective implementation and development of the Historical Memory Act. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 198 against, 1 abstentions, 140.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u89	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the institutional crisis in Venice. [[File number 162/000396]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u90	We now vote for the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the institutional crisis in Venezuela. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, and the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 259 against, 20 abstentions, 58.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u91	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u92	We are now voting on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, concerning the position of the Government with regard to the situation of the Basque prisoners and prisoners subjected to seriously ill anti-terrorist legislation. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 92 against, 244 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u93	The motion is rejected. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON GOVERNMENT POLICY WITH REGARD TO THE ADOPTION OF MEASURES FOR THE IMMEDIATE REDUCTION OF AIR CONTAMINATION AND THE REVISION OF THE ENERGY MODEL. [[File number 173/000026]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u94	We now turn to the motion for an urgent debate by the Socialist Group on the Government's policy on measures for the immediate reduction of air pollution and the revision of the energy model. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 201 against, 131 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u95	The motion was approved. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the Absence of a Global Strategy in Government Industry Policy. [[File number 173/000027]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u96	Let us now turn to the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group into the absence of a comprehensive strategy in the industrial policy of the Government. We will vote on it in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and the Joint Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 336 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u97	The motion was approved. [[Applauds]] - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, on the development and effective implementation of Law 45/2007 of 13 December 2007 on sustainable development of the rural environment. [[File number 173/000028]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u98	We now vote on the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the development and effective implementation of Act 45/2007 of 13 December 2007 on Sustainable Rural Development. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 202 abstentions, 137.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u99	The motion was approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u100	We then proceed to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, Royal Decree-Law 6/2017 of 31 March, approving the offer of public employment in the fields of non-university and university teaching staff, Armed Forces, State Security Forces and Bodies and police subordinates of the Autonomous Communities for 2017. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; in favour, 337 plus 2 telematics votes, 339; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u101	The royal decree-law is validated. The Royal Decree-Law has been requested to be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 337 plus 1 telematic vote, 338; in favour, 84 plus 1 telematic vote, 85; against, 250; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u102	Consequently, it will not be treated as a bill. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 7/2017, OF 28 APRIL, EXTENDING AND AMENDING THE WORK PROGRAMME FOR EMPLOYMENT. [[File number 130/000013]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u103	We will then vote on the Royal Decree-Law 7/2017 of 28 April, extending and amending the activation programme for employment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 plus 2 telematics votes, 341; 332 plus 2 telematics votes, 334; abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u104	The royal decree-law is validated. The Royal Decree-Law has been requested to be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 340 votes in favour, 87 votes in favour, 88 votes against, 247 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u105	Consequently, it will not be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u106	The following are the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. As agreed, these items are put to the vote by consent. Are they approved by consent? [[Consent]] They are approved by consent.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u107	We shall now proceed to the joint vote on the amendments to the full refund of the draft law incorporating into the Spanish legal system Directive 2013/11/EU of 21 May 2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the alternative resolution of consumer disputes presented by the parliamentary groups Mixto, Mr Campuzano, and Esquerra Republicana. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 338 plus 2 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 92; against, 246 plus 2 telematics votes, 248.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u108	The amendments are therefore rejected in their entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u109	We then proceed to the request for the House plenary to decide on the final vote on the draft law incorporating into the Spanish legal order the directive of the Parliament and of the Council on the alternative resolution of consumer disputes, at the request of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 92 against, 247.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u110	The notice is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u111	Next, we will vote on the agreement for direct and read-only processing of the proposed law on the amendment of Law 17/2006 of 5 June of the state-owned radio and television, in order to regain the independence of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 338 plus 2 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 338 plus 2 telematics votes, 340.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-11-CD170511.u112	Consequently, direct and read-only processing is approved by the plenary of the above-mentioned proposal for a law. The meeting rose. It was one in the afternoon.
