ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[Rumors]] Please take your seats. Let's start the session. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the parliamentary groups, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to the effect that the calls included in the agenda are discussed in the following order: firstly, the urgent inquiry of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which appears on the agenda as item 26, followed by the urgent inquiries of the Joint Parliamentary Group, which appear respectively as items 25 and 23; then the inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, included as item 24, and finally the urgent inquiry of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, which appears as item 27 of the agenda. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u2	We now come to the first item on the agenda. [[The Rumors Continue]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a seat because we have already started the sitting. We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to ensure the independence of appointments in the regulatory bodies. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u3	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pride for me to defend here today the proposal for a law to guarantee the independence of appointments in the regulatory bodies. This is the fifth Citizens' Law and it aims at a very simple reason: to put an end to the toes and regain the independence of the institutions and regulatory authorities so that we can look a little bit more like Europe. This initiative is the first pillar of a package against amiguet capitalism, which we had agreed with the Socialist Party first and which we then agreed with the People's Party. It includes a first part which was the separation of that 'Frankenstein' which is the CNMC, a second part which was the creation of an agency to protect consumers of financial products and this third part which, as I say, is to put an end to the fingers for meritocratic appointments. Ladies and gentlemen, amighets capitalism has been the most serious economic disease our country has suffered in the last two decades, a system of economic relations that has profoundly perverted the mechanism of allocation of market resources, a system in which business success has depended more on proximity to political power than on merit, work and effort; a system that prevents equal opportunities in the market, restricts competition, innovation and strangles economic growth. Power, if it can, abuses its dominant position, and this has not been discovered by Pablo Iglesias or the circles of Podemos, and this is taught in the first Economics courses of any university. Existing companies with market power naturally try to defend their dominant position, do so by keeping costs low, becoming more competitive, but also trying to seek favors from the political world to preserve their position of privilege in the market, taking advantage of complex regulations and trying to make regulations tailored to them. That is why the separation of powers is necessary, that is why the strong and independent institutions that work counterweight are necessary, that is why the clippings that limit power are necessary. For many years, economists have known that the most important variable in the success of nations is strong, autonomous, impartial and independent institutions that guarantee the same system of play for all. When the lines of separation between political and economic power fade, institutions begin to weaken and with weak or captured institutions, the checks and balances necessary to prevent abuse of power disappear. The market cannot function without the state in the same way that the state cannot function without the market, despite what some dogmatists think both on the left and on the right. The practical manifestations of amiguet capitalism have been multiple and varied, and we have seen them in our country directly during the years of bipartisanism on a permanent basis: tariff barriers for imports or restrictions on free trade to protect national champions; advantageous credits - they will remember the savings boxes -; tax exemptions for lucky sectors, usually with effective lobbies that always pay something in return; favourisms in competitions or contracts - think about highways, airports, promotions granted to finger during Spain of the boom of the People's Party and the Socialist Party -; tailor-made regulations, finger subsidies, special tax rates, that, ladies and gentlemen, is amiguet capitalism. Often that perverse relationship has advantages for both parties of the contract, politicians or bureaucrats also receive their gift in return, either through direct bribes to obtain building licenses, as we have seen in multiple municipalities, either through donations in kind or in cash to political parties, or through direct transfers to banks in Switzerland. Friendship capitalism is the perfect breeding ground for corruption, but of that corruption that is not seen in everyday life, that corruption that occurs in expensive restaurants, on the Bernabéu stage and also on the Camp Nou stage, because in this Catalans could give us very good lessons, in this - I say - of clientelism and corruption. The Catalans of Convergence say. [[Applauds]] As in all corruption, it is always the citizens who end up paying the duck, either through more expensive prices of the products or services they consume, or through looting in the savings boxes where they have their money and the consequent ransoms they have to pay from their pocket, or through bailouts to failed highways granted to friends in finger hires, or through subsidies to companies, which are never the most productive but the most friendly of power, or through losses of competitiveness in the economy that result in worse jobs and worse quality. In Spain during the boom years, the political parties functioned as armies of occupation, took all and each of the State institutions that could counterbalance their desire for power, placed politicians in the Court of Auditors, in the economic regulators, in the General Council of the Judiciary and even put their hands on the secretaries and agents of the city council in order to take it raw. That's what happened during the boom years in this country, and that's why a law like the one that brings Citizens here today is essential. Politization allowed corruption to spread like a plague, the culture of fingering became the norm; it did the same if the one who was at the head of the Competition regulator knew or did not know anything about competition, the important thing is that it was not excessively independent, the important thing is that it did not water the party to the friends of the Government. Many of them openly declared it: I didn't understand a word of the papers that were passing me, I recently declared in a trial an ex-advisor of one of these regulatory institutions of the People's Party. In Spain, the capitalism of friends, unfortunately, has become part of our daily culture. We see this in the ridiculous fines imposed on certain companies for collusion and abuse of market power. We have seen it in the corrupt plots infiltrated by the Administration, from the fraud of the EREs to the training courses or even in the visit of the Pope of Rome. We see it in the connivance between real estate developers and municipalities to take on millionaire bites. We have seen it in the already deceased savings boxes and in the financial pyramids such as Forum and Afinsa with good political connections all of them. We see it in the placement of toxic financial products as the preferred ones that, in the end, as always, end up paying the citizens. Today we bring this law with a clear objective: to put an end to the culture of fingering and plugging to ensure equal opportunities in the market. We have this law because we want strong regulators and because we want independent regulars who defend citizens. In Citizens we want it to be merit and effort that conditions success in the economy and not friendship or affiliation to a political party. In Citizens we want the Nuclear Security Council's advisors to know something about nuclear security and not be a mayor, who has no knowledge of the matter that has been happening. In Citizens we want the person in charge of the competition to be autonomous and have technical knowledge to really oppose and to confront the interests of power when they present themselves. In Citizens we want the leader of the regulator of complex sectors such as telecommunications or energy to know what he is talking about and have knowledge. - If he has them, he probably won't be captured. In Citizens we want Spanish citizens to stop paying 400 euros more than an average European citizen for the electricity bill, which is what they are paying today because the government is defending oligopolies. When laws are made to fit those with the right political connections, the laws end up defending those who get their hands on regulation and not the majority of citizens. And when that becomes the norm, the system becomes a system of mass income extraction that harms the market economy and all citizens. Some have wanted to make us believe that the problem was the market economy itself and not the capitalism of friends, that the solution was to nationalize strategic sectors - that came in some of the programs, although they say that no and no longer know whether they continue to defend it or not or what part of their party defends it or not - but to occupy with politicians positions in regulators we do not believe that it is the solution as long as you are different politicians and consider yourselves to be real defenders of the people. The solution is no longer politicization, but less; the solution is not the control of the party of televisions, polls and regulators; the solution is exactly the opposite. There is no prosperous country that does not have a serious network of solvent companies and truly independent regulators. As I say, colonizing institutions is not the solution, but it is not the solution to stand idly by and do nothing as bipartisanism has done in recent years. There is a fundamental difference between the conservative parties and the liberal parties in this respect: the conservative parties are, by definition, defenders of the establishment; their role in life in part is to preserve the interests of those who are already in the game. Liberals, on the other hand, are advocates of the market, we are not advocates of the establishment, we want equal rules of play for all and we want to be able to compete equally for the market to work, not to defend those who are already inside. As I say, the law that we bring to this House today is very simple, and consists in creating an appointment mechanism that avoids fingers and establishes a clearly meritocratic system. The mechanism we are proposing is not original, it reproduces in several European countries such as the United Kingdom and also in Chile. It consists of creating a commission of independent appointments, a sort of committee of wise men who prepares a report to assess the suitability, merit, capacity and independence of the candidates who come forward to chair these independent bodies, and then the proposal comes to Congress to be approved by a strong majority to ensure that those who are regulating our markets and those who are regulating our sectors are not friends of the PP or friends of the Socialist Party. The idea is to cover all economic regulators - including the Banco de España, CNMV, CNMC and Airef - and some also non-economic regulators, as proposed in the initiative. I am grateful for the cooperation I have had so far in moving towards a somewhat more European regulation of both Mr Saura of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Government through the People's Parliamentary Group as well as Mr Montero de Podemos. We have been able to come up with principles that can be common to all Spaniards, and I am sure that with shared work we can improve this proposal. If your ladies and gentlemen decide to support this proposal, we will be open to improving it all together for the good of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. Having not applied for a counter turn, we moved on to the position-fixing turn. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Taking into account a law to ensure the independence of appointments in different agencies will be another step forward in increasing democratic guarantees, correcting problems arising from fiascos in appointments and the questionable selection of officials and managers of agencies that have to make crucial regulatory, supervisory and control decisions. They are members of bodies, entities and commissions that ensure the essential protection of the rights of investors and financial consumers and, ultimately, the general interest of all citizens. At the Forum, it seems appropriate to strengthen the independence of these types of appointments, accompanied by the demand for responsibilities to try to prevent episodes that result in very significant economic harm to customers, investors and also to the public coffers, which too often and even repeatedly have to suffer and assume the consequences of illegal or irregular actions, but also the consequences arising from agencies that have not acted properly or diligently or that have not done so in accordance with what could be expected, questioning their own independence and carrying out multi-million dollar losses. It is appropriate to avoid and prevent those who have to supervise from having links with those who have to be controlled, because the independence of those who make up the regulatory or supervisory bodies is the first parapet for economic security and also for ensuring decision-making in different areas, fundamentally economic as has just been recalled, or even in the investigation of events, incidents or accidents. However, it should be noted that in Spain we currently have mechanisms to enable the General Courts, both the Congress and the Senate, to intervene and participate in certain appointments made by the Government to senior posts in national commissions or regulatory and supervisory bodies. For not many years now the figure of the hearing has been incorporated, that is, of a candidate's appearance before certain parliamentary committees not always of a specifically economic nature. For example, last March, the Committee on Development voted after the candidate's appearance on the proposal for a president for the Commission for the Investigation of Railway Accidents, in compliance with and implementation of the provisions of the Railway Sector Act. Lastly, he drew attention to the fact that no attempt was being made to incorporate for greater independence the limitation of the governing members of certain high agencies so that their resolutions could not be rectified or appealed to the Government itself. Perhaps in the parliamentary procedure, where appropriate, amendments can be incorporated in this direction and the proposal can be improved. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u7	Pick it up on. Thank you, President. Today, Citizens bring us a bill to change the system of choice of regulatory bodies. The truth is that we find it rather strange to do so right now, as the PP Government, with which it also agreed to change this system, is also drafting a bill to push forward the same reform that this group is now proposing. In this proposal his bet is to create an independent commission of appointments of the State; and it seems that the independence of this commission is based on the fact that all members, except the president of the Fiscal Authority, are elected by lot in their field and with a temporary mandate. We are surprised that, despite all the criticisms made by this group towards the existing system of choice and for which it has not had very good consequences, you yourselves - it must be remembered - have agreed on appointments for the old procedure in some posts, for example, the presidents of the National Securities Market Commission and its vice-president, protecting themselves - that the places had to be filled; a somewhat weak argument because if you did not agree with the process, the logical thing would have been to vote against or veto such appointments. In recent times one of the most used debates is that of politicization that exists in those State institutions from which independent action is expected, such as regulatory and supervisory bodies; an independence necessary to ensure that certain public interventions remain outside the political influence. Politicization is thus spoken of, when the responsibility for the appointment of the authorities of these institutions lies with the Governments, or when their officials maintain links with the political parties, which leads them to believe that their actions depend on them. That is why today the idea has been extended that this appointment procedure should be terminated and replaced by selective processes with objective criteria to end their dependence. This proposal also does not comply with the maximum when it is not even mentioned whether the report of the independent committee that acknowledges the suitability and independence is binding or not, nor is it about the procedures or the evaluation criteria. We understand that the problem is not politicization, but the partisan use or instrumentalization of these bodies in the interests of the executive and even the interests of regulated companies. It is true that good regulation presupposes technical expertise, but we have to be aware that in any regulatory option there is always an ideological bias. In fact, the independence of a regulator should not be assessed solely by its biography, but also by its behaviour or the results obtained and its ability to move away from both private interests and political pressures, thus taking into account the public interest. In short, the appointment of the highest officials of the regulatory and supervisory bodies must, of course, be at the political level compatible with the selection of persons qualified for the post, because independence is guaranteed by professional competence, the contrasting reputation of the eligible persons and their parliamentary control; a control that is key to ensuring their independence, so it must be strengthened. For all that said and given that, for the time being, it is a partial proposal, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Yllanes Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u9	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will confess that the reading of the statement of reasons for the bill presented by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has caused me great concern, because the first paragraph of the statement of reasons - I have a bad habit of reading them - reads as follows: The independence of the external regulatory or supervisory bodies on certain economic sectors or activities, or whose performance requires functional independence or special autonomy from the General Administration of the State, is absolutely essential to ensure the proper implementation of their functions and thereby to ensure security and legal uncertainty. Then I thought: They have not read the text they have presented. But well, still, I kept reading, and I came to that paragraph where you make reference to Pact 108 of the investiture agreement. So, I said: Well, as usually happens, they look for the photo even at the risk of being portrayed. But this did not even stop convincing me that the whole preamble had to be read. It is true that this preamble clearly reflects the mistrust you have towards those who have invested in ruling this country; mistrust which is enormously justified, even more so in the matter to which your proposal for a law specifically refers. Look, let me have a little digression: This weekend in the territory I honor to represent, Balearics, the People's Party has mounted a quermés, in which the Minister of Defense, insulting the intelligence of all the citizens of Balearics, has confused what is tourismphobia with depth and serious concern for the future of the autonomous community. He has thus shown that she is an enormous ignorant in many important aspects of politics and that, however, as happens to almost all the positions of the People's Party, she is enormously effective in the darkest corners of politics, including that of having followers, affections and relatives happy. The last example and the most clear one we have a few days ago: Mrs Cifuentes ceases the health counselor and immediately, three days later, places him so that he does not run out of a small public wage. Having done this, I will tell you that Mr Montero is much nicer than I am, and we will therefore vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, although there are things that concern us in this initiative. First of all, the mistrust you show towards the work you can do on congressional committees. This is clear even from the very explanatory statement and I think there is no reason to maintain that fear. Moreover, you do not keep it, for example, in the independent authority you want to create in your bus law, where you link it directly to Parliament. Here, however, they link this commission - then I will refer to it - directly to the Ministry of the Presidency, and this causes not only serious conflicts about the division of powers - I will explain why - but also makes us seriously doubt that it can actually be independent. Therefore, full confidence in the work that can be done in the parliamentary committees and full confidence in the possibility of Parliament sending binding reports to the Government on the suitability of candidates for these particular positions in the economic regulatory bodies. And not only in that, but also in the Presidency of the EFE Agency, in the Presidency of the Council of State or in the Presidency of the Economic and Social Council. I say that we are going to vote in favour, although - I insist - we understand that there are serious difficulties in this kind of independent committee that you raise, first of all, as regards the separation of powers. You have made specific reference to the separation of powers, but whoever chairs this Commission, as proposed by you, is a judge or judge of the Dispute-Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court. You will have to convince them to ask for special services, because, if not, you will not be able to link them to the Ministry of the Presidency, unless the separation of powers is simply a toast to the sun. So I understand it won't happen. You understand that the committee is going to be very independent because of the training given to it, and you even refer to Article 254 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union as a guarantee that the same committee of wise men that stands there can be raised here. The problem is that if you look at the independent committee that you want to create, there are serious doubts about its independence, as there are serious doubts about the absence of conflicts of interest. You want to go to the judges, you want to go to the professors, those who have been judges or general lawyers at the Court of Justice of the European Union, but you permanently leave the President of the Airef, who could decide on his own suitability in case he wants to renew in office, which raises serious problems. And about the purity of that committee of wise men of the European Union, I will not question it, but I do say, for example, that if you look at who the Spanish judges are today not only in the Court of Justice, but also in the other courts linked to the European Union, you will be very surprised. At the General Court we have a judge with whom I had the opportunity to coincide at the Judicial School - he as a pupil, I as a teacher - who has little practical experience in the exercise of the judiciary and, however, is a judge at the General Court of the European Union. That's right, when you read your resume, in addition to the outstanding in the law career, you appear to have been Secretary of State for Security. Doesn't look like it's going to be very independent, does it? That is why I tell you that we will have to work seriously on this project. In short, as a strong idea, we are going to rely on the probity of Members who are part of the committees of this Parliament to be able to elect independent persons for these regulatory bodies, not only in economic matters, not only referring to the capitalism of friends, but also in other matters that are also of interest. I am not going to talk about the fact that we have an outstanding debate, and that is how we choose those who preside over other regulatory bodies - the General Council of the Judiciary or the Constitutional Court - because it would be opening the thunderbox right now. But I do say to you again that the quality stamp on this proposal for a law is going to be placed by us, the Confederal Group, for a simple reason, because we have two very clear bets: firstly, absolute transparency in the appointment of those who are to occupy those posts and, secondly, ensuring the independence of those appointed and those appointed to carry them out. As every time I go up to this rostrum, I guarantee you that what turns out is not going to look much like this and that it will be after arduous days and hours of work among all of you to end up with that which you have so graphically described as a toe in appointments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Yllanes. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Botella Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u11	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of citizens, why do you bring this bill to the House if there is a subcommittee in progress in the Standing Committee on the Audit of Democratic Quality which intends to analyse the measures necessary to strengthen the impartiality and independence of the independent authorities and economic regulators and has the opinion to provide the relevant report and proposals to the Government? Why do they go out with this front now? It is not the first time that the Citizens Group has done so without waiting for anyone, jumping into the toaster the times and work plans that we have given ourselves and emptying the content of the relevant parliamentary committee. I have to tell you that from the Socialist Group we do not like this recidivism to impose on us its times, to presume of demand before its investiture partner, the People's Party, in a strategy of pure political advantage. We don't get involved in that. Furthermore, Mr Roldán, who is the rapporteur for the proposal, I have to say that the proposal is in a hurry, perhaps because of this too abrupt withdrawal from the Commission in which it was maturing, it is very improveable and suffers from serious inconsistencies. We do not share this course of action, that is clear. But, above this circumstance, I would like to say to you that, unequivocally on every occasion, in every circumstance discussed on this subject, in the Socialist Party we are in favour of measures that propose to promote, improve or strengthen the independence of the independent authorities, because we come from the hardest years of the takeover of the institutional power of the People's Party, we come from a partisan revenge where the current legality ceased to matter and to that the People's Party dedicated its electoral majority, to which it dedicated itself, to repealing laws that had previously been adopted by consensus. Now, when respect for legality is a matter of state, it seems opportune to remind Vice-President Sáenz de Santamaría of her responsibility in a clamorous case such as that of the CNMC, the highest regulatory body of the markets and competition in Spain, in which the Supreme Court has annulled this year 2017 two royal decrees to the Council of Ministers - I open quotes - 'for being contrary to the law' - I close quotes - in relation to the anticipated cessations of the then president and a councillor of the National Telecommunications Commission, condemning the Government to replenish it. This ruling of the Supreme Court makes it clear that the Government, in the persons of the Minister of Economy and the Vice-President of the Government, did not ensure the independence of the independent bodies and authorities in Spain. The Vice-President raised the flag of austerity and did not hesitate to validate the reform now subject to the double legal, European and Spanish flag. This is what we come from with the People's Party in government, ladies and gentlemen. The independence of constitutional and regulatory and supervisory bodies is an essential indicator of the democratic quality of any country. I told you at the beginning of my speech that the Socialist Party has a firm and unequivocal commitment to the independent authorities, we have it specifically if it is more up to the independent economic authorities because it is a crucial issue because of the oligopolistic drift of capitalism that is creating serious consequences for the increase of inequality, something that in Spain, unfortunately, in the last five years of government we know quite well. We believe that the only key to channeling the situation, following the failure of the People's Party government from which we came and its continued interference in the operation of these independent authorities, is the attendance and consensus in the appointment system, which we believe is crucial and which the Citizens' proposal does not even name. Our proposal, in this proposal for a law to guarantee the independence of appointments, focuses on key aspects that I briefly enumerate for them: to return the protagonistship to Parliament, to establish an independent appointment commission, of course, outside the presidency's orbit, as proposed by the Member of the European Parliament; to promote public calls and the open and transparent search for candidates, and to ensure that Parliament has the last word. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity and the responsibility to build an appropriate alternative that brings us back to the institutional standard of European regulators. That can be done with consensus and concurrence. We in this Parliament have enough votes to achieve this, and we can do so if we work together in this consensus. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs. Botella. Mr Blasco Marqués has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u13	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Roldán, I do not know whether you intended to do so, but you have managed to agree with the Socialist Party, the Podemos Group and the People's Party at least on the inopportunity of the proposal they have put forward. I'll ask you a question or several. Why do you bring this bill this afternoon? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Because they don't do anything]] First question. Monday. Mr. Canto, your co-chairman, did you know about this proposal? [[ccccccccc]] [[Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández, Mrs. Melisa: Mr. Canto?]] Mr Canto, who is the President of the Commission, is studying this matter. [[ccccccccc]] Mr Canto, have you told Mr Roldán that there is a subcommittee working in this Parliament on the independence of the regulatory bodies? Now what are we gonna do? Do we stop the Commission working on this and get to work on this proposal for a law? Or the other way around? Or what do we do with the proposal sent by the Spanish Government to all groups, with a preliminary draft law called 'Pre-draft law on the rationalization and management of market surveillance bodies and for the improvement of governance'? Was it just about going out in the picture tomorrow, in some newspaper, to say: Here is the Citizen Group regenerating this country? [[ccccccccc]] [[Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández, Mrs. Melisa: No, both at once]] All groups are telling you that we are working, and very hard, in this House to gain a little more transparency, which is what the citizens are asking of us. In the end, Citizens are more concerned about the form, the photo and those who are seeing us than the background of what is to be regulated. [[Applauds]] Other groups have already told you many reasons why it is a bill that comes at a wrong time, but what you haven't told you are the many mistakes you make in this bill. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández, Mrs. Melisa:]] For example, first of all, they keep the President of the Council of State among those who have to submit to a prior opinion, when it turns out that the President and the Council of State are regulated by an organic law. Do you intend to amend an organic law with this proposed law? Should we not have started, if that is their intention, by repealing or changing an organic law and then including the Council of State here? [[Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández, Mrs. Melisa: No]] Secondly, the legal nature of the initiative you have drafted is not well understood. We do not know whether this is a parliamentary committee - which seems to be not - or a purely administrative body. That too has been said to you this afternoon. If what they propose is a parliamentary commission, both because of its membership that does not include members of Congress and because it is attached to the Ministry of the Presidency and for the Territorial Administrations, the forecasts contained in the initiative that they have brought are contrary to the rules of Congress. If, on the contrary - and it seems to go that way - what they propose is the creation of an administrative body, it is not understood how it articulates its connection with Congress. Moreover, it seems, as it stands, to be of little use. The current procedure, with a parliamentary committee that resolves the adequacy and the existence or absence of conflicts of interest in the candidates, seems sufficient and consistent with the task entrusted to this Parliament of controlling the Government. Thirdly, in the initiative proposed today, the proposing group says that it does not seem appropriate to support itself exclusively and predominantly in bodies appointed, in turn, politically. But what we see when we study the commission of appointments that propose to us is that there is an excessive weight of the judiciary - also the representative of Podemos has said - an absence of members of the General Administration of the State with competence in this matter and little representation of the experts in the field concerned in each of the regulatory bodies. One can even doubt the constitutionality of the proposal because it goes a great deal against the separation of powers. The Constitution makes clear who is responsible for managing the Administration, the Government; the Constitution makes clear who is responsible for controlling the Government, the Parliament. What the Constitution does not say at any time is that there has to be an independent appointment commission that controls the Government and Parliament; that does not seem reasonable from any point of view. In short, there are many drawbacks to this proposal of law posed by Citizens. But we're going to vote for her. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández, Mrs. Melisa: Ah, ah!]] We are going to do this, firstly, because we always fulfil our commitments, and it is in the agreement that Mariano Rajoy signed with Mr Rivera, to gain in transparency and improve the governance of the Administration; secondly, because he was on our electoral programme, and, thirdly, because this is how the president committed himself to the investiture speech in this rostrum. Not because it is proposed by Citizens, but because that is what the Spanish people who voted for us demand. Mr Roldán, it is more important to go to the heart of the matter, to go to the bottom of the matter and to reach the greatest parliamentary agreement - as is already being done in the subcommittee and in the Commission - to gain in transparency so that Spain is a more reliable country before the private sector or international markets and not to pursue permanently that tomorrow the newspapers say that Citizens have agreed to this Parliament, because what they have agreed with us is the inopportunity of your proposal. But in order not to doubt the commitment of transparency and improvement of the administration, we will vote in favour by announcing, yes, that in its parliamentary procedure we will probably amend it in its entirety, and we will try to reach an agreement with the rest of the groups on that path. That is all, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Blasco.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u15	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We continue with the no-law proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the prohibition of advertising campaigns with 'without VAT' slogans. [[EAJ-PNV]] Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Following a motion that was approved at the General Boards of Álava, following an express request from the Finance Department of the Basque Government and also because a report by Kontsumobide, the Basque Consumer Institute, reflected this, the Basque Group has considered it advisable to bring this non-law proposal to the House. When consumers acquire any goods or are recipients of the provision of a service, we must pay the seller or provider of that service an amount that includes the value added tax, the famous VAT. Subsequently, it is this part, the seller or service provider and not the final consumer, who as a general rule must enter the tax company the corresponding VAT quotas that are obliged to pass on to your customer. This tax is one of the main sources of financing in the public sector and is therefore a fundamental recourse to the provision of public goods and services by the institutions that are handling the issue. The tax is therefore one of the main sources of financing. In this context, we note with concern how some types of commercial strategy are being consolidated, mainly among large areas, large brands of electronics, automotive, etc. - I am not going to quote names - which we believe favour a distorted perception of the payment of VAT. We refer to the famous advertising campaigns with slogans such as 'Day without VAT', 'Save VAT', 'We discount VAT', 'week without VAT', 'Do not pay VAT'. We have many examples. [[Displays various advertisements]] In the press almost every day such advertisements appear without any indecentness and with all freedom. Well, the promoters of these ads either defraud the Treasury or make misleading advertising, one of two, and both are harmful and not exemplary. Public institutions should encourage the fulfilment of tax obligations by citizens, encouraging measures to raise public awareness of the importance of contributing and paying taxes, avoiding fraudulent actions because, as I have commented, advertising practices such as those mentioned above are not a good example of this. When I say that one of two, or it is misleading advertising or fraud, it must be made clear without any doubt that as VAT is a tax that taxes consumption, every purchase made by consumers in establishments carrying out such advertising campaigns is subject to VAT, say what the above-mentioned campaigns say, is subject to VAT. Promotional offers may, as it could not otherwise be, have a discount on the price of the product; they may announce that they discount 18 %, 21 % or, if they like, up to 80 % or whatever they like, but it will never be admissible to say that the purchase in question exceeds the obligation to pay VAT by the fact that the selling party decides to offer its products at a lower price. Therefore, in addition to the pernicious effect on citizen awareness to which we have referred, it is clear that the slogans of the campaigns are not true, because under no circumstances do the companies that promote them avoid their customers bearing the VAT that they must enter. When we buy a product that is advertised 'without VAT' and ask the invoice that tax does not appear in the same? The VAT appears, of course. Therefore, he is deluding himself and, moreover, I do not know for what purpose, because the citizen who is interested is the discount that is made, not the VAT being removed. These campaigns do little for the transparent functioning of the economy and promote values that have little to do with solidarity and honesty; they do not contribute to the construction of a powerful social protection system and they do not contribute to the development of a more just and more supportive society. The damage that such advertising campaigns can cause to the family economy and the public's fiscal conscience must be monitored. I repeat that, when we see these kinds of ads in static advertising, on television, in the media, in newspapers, or they're cheating, because they say they take away your VAT when they don't take it away from you, and it's misleading advertising, or, if not, they do a fraud to the Treasury, which is worse. As we know that the latter is not the case, what we are asking is for the General Advertising Act to be amended to amend the legal regime for unfair competition and advertising in order to improve the protection of consumers and users, in order to prohibit such campaigns. If we read a specific article of that law we will see how misleading advertising cannot be allowed, and misleading advertising is the one that says something that later does not occur. Citizens cannot be told that VAT is taken off when it is not taken off and, moreover, cannot be taken off. It is therefore clear what my parliamentary group is asking for through this non-legislative proposal, following, as I say, what the General Councils of Álava, the Basque Government and consumer associations have asked of us through Kontsumobide. I hope that all the parliamentary groups in the House will see this request fairly and logically and support this non-legislative proposal by my group. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. In defence of the amendment put forward by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u18	Thank you, President. Mr Agirretxea, our parliamentary group has tabled a constructive and enriching amendment to your non-legislative proposal. I was led by complaints more or less stickers of the type 'Quick up and buy one of our cars without VAT', 'Save your VAT. I'm not a fool.' This kind of marketing may like it more or less, they might think it's more or less creative, you might even think it's liberal. But I think this has to be decided by the company. The company has to decide whether to link its brand to such advertisements. It is not a question of whether this is ethical or not, I think the question is whether it is legal or not. Do you not think, ladies and gentlemen, that in the exercise of our legislative power to prohibit something must be exercised with a little more pulcrity and seriousness? We live days of challenges to the rules and, therefore, respect for the law is much more important. I think this is key to a civilized coexistence. We believe that banning these types of campaigns is killing cannon flies and is therefore not the solution to the underlying problem. The underlying problem is culture, civic-tributory education of people. We have spent a long time doing fiscal amnesty here - they have all done so, the People's Party and the Socialist Party with the help of Convergence i Unió -, we have allowed for a long time a weak fight against corruption, against fraud - the second problem in the CIS survey is corruption -; then how can we combat this underlying problem? Is it possible to opt or not to opt for the VAT Act? Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a law. It is very well defined in Articles 4, 7 and even 20 on exemptions. By the way, the compulsory entry of VAT, Your Honor, does not have it by the consumer, has it by the seller, so we are not defrauding anyone here. I ask you: if obligations, as you are proposing, are optional, are rights optional as well? Is health, education, security or effective judicial guardianship optional? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a democratic state governed by law and ambiguities do not fit; the other is the law of the jungle, chaos. I insist, do tax amnesties not undermine citizens' fiscal awareness? For example, when you, the PNV, negotiate the Basque quota with the People's Party, with the acquiescence of the Socialist Party, are you invoking the principle of solidarity that you are presenting in the PNL? [[Applauds]] Finally, they talk about misleading advertising practices, and I ask them: Wouldn't it be better to have citizens informed and educated from a very small age? Yeah, it's pretty small. It is not a question of interfering with educational policy, quite the contrary. The amendment we have tabled enriches its GNP, as we call on the Government to strengthen, of course, the fight against tax fraud, with that boost of civic-tributory education. I give you an example - we signed it with the People's Party in these 150 commitments -: increased formative talks in the Tax Agency, expansion of the permanent teaching staff in that Tax Agency, the creation of a commission within this agency to promote, supervise and evaluate with full guarantees of independence. We know that, in addition, the fight against fraud not only has this action, there are different actions: the Tax Agency, the National Securities Market Commission and even the Banco de España practice them through the Ministry of Education, providing teaching material to schools. But that is not enough, which only affects 30,000 students of more than 6 million; that is not enough. If we look outside our borders, so are the Nordic and Anglo-Saxon countries a long time ago. They, for example, have programs to prepare for adult life and so do. I'm done, Mr. President. At the current juncture of lack of resources, of underfunding, of lack of investment in many autonomous communities, including of course mine, the education of our children becomes more urgent, and that ethical, tax and solidarity behavior is what we are proposing. With all certainty, it conditions even the behavior of the parents. When education comes from children to parents, who resists blush? Who resists the reproach of a child when he is telling his father that he is having a defrauding behavior? Honestly, I don't, I hope you don't either. When your children study values in school, when Congress realizes this Citizens initiative of civic-tributory education, we will certainly get better people and greater resources for our welfare state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Ten. Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u20	Sweep on, good afternoon. More and more large companies are joining in the fashion of promoting discounts in their products by using value added tax, VAT, as the proponent of the initiative we are analysing has said. These campaigns have been criticized for different issues, mainly because they are misleading advertising because, contrary to what she says, with which we want to be attracted, VAT is paid absolutely in all cases. They point out these criticisms also that the discount is often lower than the advertised one or that it must be spent in the same establishment; also that these campaigns are used to speed up the sale of products that take a long time in stock and that soon have to be withdrawn to make room for the new ones. All this is true, but, in addition to those mentioned above, there is another aspect which is important for Euskal Herria Bildu and is nothing other than the image which is projected of taxes, especially in this case of VAT. This is a tax - it has already been said - that is paid for consuming a product or receiving a service, that is, we absolutely pay it all people at the time of buying something or receiving a service and therefore it is a tax that directly increases the final price of things. It is therefore a tax which does not discriminate on the basis of the particular situation of each consumer, and is one of the reasons why it does not have a good name, even less so today at such high rates. Large companies take advantage of this, the negative reaction this tax causes to citizens to attract them to consumption and increase their sales. This type of advertising reinforces the false idea that VAT is a tax that can be collected or not according to the will of the entrepreneur or trader, and this idea has perverse effects on self-employed and small entrepreneurs who see how their budgets are rejected when the consumer asks, as if he could choose: with VAT or without VAT? In this way, those businesses that meet their tax obligations are in a worse competitive position than those that do so fraudulently. The damage to such practices goes beyond VAT that is not collected, extending to non-declared income and to other forms of abuse and fraud in working conditions. Ultimately - the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party has said - it is clear that these types of campaigns do not favor - and I subscribe word for word because they are words in turn used in their day when Euskal Herria Bildu was in the Guipuzcoa Diputation to deal with this type of campaigns - in nothing to a good functioning, to a transparent functioning of the economy and to promote values that have little to do with solidarity and honesty. But I am going to say something else: they are campaigns that do not contribute anything to the construction of a solid social protection system and do not contribute to the development of a more just and supportive society, for which it is necessary for everyone to contribute that part that touches him and to have public resources to promote social policies. That is why we believe that these campaigns should be banned; yes, gentlemen of Citizens, they should be banned. Although it is true that you have spoken against the ban, then in your speech, when you spoke of the need to be clear, that you did not have to talk with half inks, and even spoke of the lack of funding and income, you entered into a total contradiction. Because, as has been said here, we must ban them because either the companies with these kinds of campaigns are deceiving us or are defrauding us, and in both cases we must tackle that reality. And it is not good that it is the companies that decide to do so, that consumers, citizens, should be protected and that there should be no such fraudulent use of all that has to do with taxes, in this particular case with VAT. We will therefore vote in favour of the PNV proposal, because we share the objective it pursues and because the rule governing VAT is determined by the State. But I would not like to end my speech without adding that if, beyond the collection of VAT by the outside bodies, we had full sovereignty in this matter, we could make VAT rates be others, and that would certainly contribute, indeed it would be an important step towards achieving a better distribution of wealth without burdening the need for collection throughout society equally, as they do taxes such as VAT, thus betting on the progression necessary for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-In Communal Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor of Mrs De la Concha García-Mauriño.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u22	President-in-Office, absent, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Advertising is so powerful that it becomes part of our identity, of our memory and of our signs of identity as a generation. The first advertising campaign I have in my memory is the '25 years of peace' campaign of 1964. There were four words that were repeated to the point of satiety: advertising fences, postmarks, pasquins, all the media of the time... Behind these four words were twenty - five years of misery and fear for an important part of the population. Behind these three enormous letters, peace, hidden the reality of prisons, graves, executions, exile, maquis, hospice, mass emigration and the cultural, economic and sexual misery of those years. '25 years of peace' was perhaps the first modern advertising campaign. Fraga was the director of an orchestra that announced the beginning of our contemporary history. The doors were opened to tourism, new infrastructure, telecommunications and also to many advertising campaigns. Fraga was perhaps the first to understand that advertising was a weapon loaded with the future. Now, fifty years later, in hours of peak television audience, sophisticated car ads and women's beauty products not only encourage consumption, but also recreate a fictional society of powerful men in powerful vehicles and beautiful women traveling by their side. A good car and a woman who causes envy are the two symbols of the triumphant. This in the century of climate change and women's empowerment. Advertising in Spain is often cheating, sexist and misleading. It uses ecology to promote consumption and feminism to sell almost anything. '25 years of peace' has already used all the languages of the State, those that were banned in schools. In Catalonia it was '25 years of pau'. There were people who took a stick from the u and it was '25 years of pa'. Its control, the control of advertising, is, however, in charge of a body called self-control, which is involved by executives and managers of multinationals and various companies. They're definitely a judge and they're leaving at the same time. Without doubt, the control of content and forms in advertising should be carried out by an independent body, without interest in the sale and promotion of advertising products. In the case we are dealing with today, this advertising that offers products without VAT, or this slogan is false, with what is involved in advertising that leads to deception, or it is true, what constitutes fraud. Article 3(e) of Law 34/1998 prohibits misleading, unfair and aggressive advertising. In this case, the campaigns 'weeks without VAT', 'buy your computer without VAT', etc., already aggressive, are, without a doubt, misleading. Is it a question of not paying VAT and thus participating in a fraud, or is it an intentionally misleading advertising slogan which is therefore in the process of being false? If what you mean is that the customer will be deducted from the price of the product a little percent and that this so much percent is equivalent to as much percent that corresponds to the product as value added tax, why is it not said in a clearer way? Or is the discount an amount equivalent to the VAT that the product had before making that discount or is it meant that the discount is an amount equivalent to the VAT payment after the discount that will be made to it? The slogan 'without VAT' is misleading and very confusing. Moreover, this is clearly unfair conduct. To begin with, towards the Tax Agency, which strives and invests in campaigns to raise public awareness of the importance of rejecting offers of goods and services without VAT, i.e. in black, but also disloyal towards other companies that do not use this type of subterfuge and that make clear offers in which, at first glance, any customer could identify the discount that will be applied in a given product. The VAT-free offers present taxes as a burden to be avoided, forgetting their redistributive and solidarity function. Law 29/2009, in the extension of the regulation, also condemns the behaviour of companies advertising products in a way that could distort the behaviour of the average consumer to whom a particular practice is directed. Is it not implied in this type of advertising without VAT that it is better not to pay that tax? Doesn't that kind of publicity imply that avoiding VAT is a good thing? Today we will vote in favour of this GNP of the PNV and work to put at the centre of the debate the issue of advertising and responsible consumption which should be one of the political issues of relevance right now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Concha. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Tundor Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u24	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of 'VAT-free day' is misleading advertising. The 'VAT-free day', if applied accurately and literally, would be a complete illegality. VAT is a compulsory tax. If it were actually discounted, it would be denouncing, as it would be in the process of tax fraud by circumventing the payment of this tax. Although it is an advertising claim, it is a toxic claim, as would a campaign whose slogan was 'On the Day of Fiscal Evasion'. Ladies and gentlemen, this type of advertising is increasingly common and conveys the idea to consumers that, on the date set by the company, all products can be purchased without paying the value added tax, i.e. with a reduction of 21 %. However, this is deceptive and false. Firstly, as I said at the beginning, there is no way to stop paying VAT. This is a tax of compulsory compliance for companies. Secondly, the final reduction on the published price is not 21 % or the corresponding percentage, since the value of VAT is calculated on the taxable basis and not on the final price of the article. This means that the real discount would be 17%. Thirdly, as consumer associations have already denounced in relation to certain companies using this type of campaign, products entering the discount suffer a sudden increase in the price just before the day promoted. This type of campaign also involves a toxic claim that disinforms consumers and attacks citizens' fiscal awareness. They reinforce the false idea that VAT is a tax that can be charged or not according to the will of the entrepreneur or trader, generating in the consumers the idea that in the budgets offered by the traders it is possible to choose the price with VAT or without VAT. It is a message that clearly attacks the citizen's awareness of the need to pay taxes. It translates the perception that taxes are a burden we carry out against our will, contributing to disaffection with the tax contribution. They suggest that, when there's a chance, you have to do your best not to pay them. The taxes guarantee the support of a State that provides for a legal framework and legal certainty that is essential for the development of economic activity. They finance basic transport, energy, telecommunications and public services such as education and health, and contribute to the redistribution of wealth within the economy. If a company wants to have credibility in order to highlight its commitment to the society in which it operates, it must certainly reject such campaigns and we must reject them also as consumers, as taxpayers and as citizens; and as parliamentarians, as representatives of citizens, we must promote and support as many initiatives as possible in this direction. But since it is also not my intention to disrupt the costly marketing campaigns of companies using the 'Day without VAT' slogan as an advertising claim, I offer you unselfishly another slogan to attract your customers. Change the 'Day without VAT' to the 'Day without benefits'. Of course, we will support the initiative of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tundator. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Romero Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that my group shares the concern of the Basque Parliamentary Group and that which has been shown by other groups in this House about the effects of such advertising campaigns; effects that can be very harmful to consumers and users. We in the People's Group welcome this initiative for three reasons. Firstly, it is clearly misleading to the consumer; in fact, there is a history in Spain. The telephone operators were already aware of this and had to change their advertising and include VAT prices on 2 December 2015. It is misleading because consumers, who face many expenses, at least we keep on looking for the best strategies to save money through offers and promotions; and this type of campaign offers us a savings solution in the products we have an interest in acquiring. This advertising leads to a misleading idea, because section 20 of the Consumer Defense Act makes it very clear that the final price must be complete, including taxes. But with it, the consumer believes that all products can be purchased without having to pay VAT, with a discount according to the percentage of the type. However, this information is false, first, because there is no way to stop paying VAT; and, second, because, as has already been stated here, the rate is applied on the impossible basis, not on the final price, so the final price will always have a lower percentage than the one the customer believes is lowering. Secondly, it is advertising that can distort competition. Article 88 of the VAT Act stipulates that taxable persons must have full effect on the amount of the tax on the taxable person for whom the taxable transaction is carried out, and the taxable person is obliged to bear it provided that the effect is in accordance with the provisions of this Act, whatever the provisions between them. For its part, misleading advertising is defined in article 5 of the Unfair Competition Act, which considers unfair, misleading, any conduct that contains false information or information that, although true because of its content or presentation, induces or may mislead the recipients, being likely to alter their economic behaviour. Consequently, the granting of a discount known as 'VAT-free' does not affect the taxable person's obligation to pass on the tax, which must be borne by the final purchaser of the good or service, irrespective of whether it has been advertised that the purchase of the good is VAT-free. Discount advertising campaigns called 'VAT-free' could violate the provisions contained in the General Advertising Act, to the extent that all products offered and purchased do pay VAT. Thirdly, these campaigns could have a certain disincentive to the social and tax conscience of citizens. The Spanish Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, obliges us all, and makes it clear in its article 31: 'All will contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure in accordance with their economic capacity, through a fair tax system, inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness, which in no case will be confiscatory'. These campaigns allude to the idea that it is the spooked consumer who is up to date with the offers - as we say on my land, 'the whole' - who can avoid paying taxes and, in this way, the tax conscience of society weakens and relaxes the idea that the tax duties set by the laws oblige each and every citizen and, in turn, bring common benefits in public goods and services that we all enjoy, with the ultimate aim of guaranteeing the benefit and well-being of the whole population, as well as contributing to the realization of the principles of justice, equity, equality and solidarity among all Spaniards who are concerned with the Constitution, reside where they reside. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendment tabled, I ask Mr Agirretxea Urresti whether your group accepts the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u28	Mr President, we are not going to accept the amendment from the Citizens' Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u29	Thank you very much. We'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u30	We turn to the third item on the agenda, debate on the motion following urgent inquiry, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the balance sheet of educational policy and the prospects for the beginning of this course, 2017-2018. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Díaz Trillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has begun the political, school and academic course working not only here, in this Congress, but also in the Senate. I say this out of the reception of the minister to our spokesman in the inquiry he made in the Senate. We received the socialists in the following way: 'As birds forerunners of spring, / in Madrid the violets appear'. This song, which made Raquel Meller and Sarita Montiel famous, has a second part of the first stanza, which says: 'What advertising looks like swallows, / who cry, who cry'. And this is what we answer to the minister. In the question of the past plenary it was clear that he was surprised not only that we took so many initiatives, but that we did not understand the pact in which we have been working. This is well known to many ladies and gentlemen who have been part of the Sub-Committee on Education for six months - there are already more than eighty appearances and one hundred and twenty hours of work - and I think that they deserve not only the respect of the minister, but - what matters most to us - attention to what Spanish society has been saying about education. If I may, as far as forms are concerned, I would like to denounce what, in our view, is a sort of ambush by the minister who should be disassembled, since with this pact he intends to conceal the inaction of the ministry itself. In fact, he has other arguments, one of which he made here and in the Senate, and it is the blessed crisis. We continue to hear from the Government that all the blame for the evils of this country lies with the crisis. By the way, not only the crisis, but also President Zapatero, as if there had been no global crisis. This ambush, which also becomes an alibi by the minister in his intervention, has a second step in addition to that of the crisis and the pact he usually uses to do nothing in the end, and is that of which the government only administers 5.18% of the education budgets. This is true, but it is also true that the amount of the General Budgets of the State is administered by the Government itself and has to be derived from the Autonomous Communities. And to abound even more in that it is a fallacy of the crisis, of the administrative and management powers of the government's budgets and of the pact as an excuse, I will tell you that in 2011 the education budget exceeded by more than 11.2%, at the end of 2017, and I denounce another trap of the government itself: If you are arguing for three years that we are already growing, this year almost 3%, it does not seem logical that 1.7 % should be allocated to education. Therefore, the reality to which the minister refers has the legs, such as lies, very short and quickly - as is the raw material of politics and socialists we work - we leave in evidence the minister in question as fundamental as this. On the other hand, as far as the pact is concerned, I will say that it is a political, social and territorial pact. It gives me the feeling that that sweet doing nothing to which my partner Meijón alluded is intentional. In the end, it is a matter of having gone through a blank course, where we have made virtually no progress on fundamental issues proposed by this motion and which I will comment on below, but it also continues to serve for the Lomce to continue to collide. This morning my colleague said that it was a law practically in hell, because nobody wanted it in Spanish society and in this same Congress was recriminated by all the political groups - except the People's Party - who signed in writing repealing it nothing more than coming this new legislature. It turns out, I say, that there the minister again falls into the trap of continuing to try to implement that law, which is so harmful for education on the other hand. There was talk of hell, but right now we are in a legal limbo situation that allows that doing nothing causes more inequality and worse quality. Less equity and worse quality is what the participants in the Sub-Committee on Education unanimously tell us. That is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group's motion is gathering a number of concerns, a number of initiatives that have already been debated in this Congress. I mean the first one, scholarships and grants. The decrease is radical: from 2011 - by the way, year of a very severe crisis - to 2017, 52% in non-university education and 47% in university education. The accounts still don't go out. What there is is no real will to reach that great agreement, but it is sufficiently funded. The president himself of the Conference of Rectors said not long ago in that subcommittee: we do not have too many universities or too many students. Moreover, we have expelled almost 100,000 students in these five years. That is the talent and productive talent of this country, which has escaped. I am not worth the Minister's arguments - by the way, my province's landscape - when she talks about the number of jobs. I'd tell him that a lot of people worked in the pyramids, too. [[Applauds]] It's not about bringing employment to a sort of slavery. It is about using the talent that innovation and education offer us to put all this into operation. Very quickly. We are also abounding in another fundamental aspect, which is a strategic plan for vocational training. We need to build on our young people's full capacity to join a market and to be able to earn decent wages. On the other hand, as our spokesman already did in the debate with the minister - let us see if he listens to us - we have raised many obstacles. Today in the Commission we have saved one of the FP and that those over twenty-one years with difficulties can continue to study. As simple as that. Sometimes they're legislative issues. We also propose - I conclude, President, that I am already in red numbers - that, apart from these obstacles of the FP, we also have special attention to educational institutions. The vertex of education, with the autonomous communities and with the General Administration of the State, are schools, schools and institutes. That's where education happens. And I do not want to forget the faculty, which has lost 15% of purchasing power and which is also 15% below the average of teachers in the European Union. They work more, they charge less, there is a higher ratio of students and they have two more hours added by the decrees and by the laws of the People's Party. Finally, and not least, coordination. The covenant, as I told you at first, must be accompanied by excellent work. I congratulate your ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the Citizens' Party and all the political groups because intense work has been done, but at the same time the ministry will have to work. Or is it that the 2010 pact was not led by a minister, by the way a socialist minister? We need the ministry to accompany us in this work. And, at the same time, the social, political pact and an important adjective: territorial, because coordinating with the autonomous communities is fundamental. First of all, the minister seems to be unresponsive to reasons, to such an extent that he wanted to comment on that of La Violeta's song. I finally thought that the minister happens to be that famous character of Lampedusa's novel El Gatopardo, who wanted everything to change so that everything would remain the same. We say to him: No, Minister, it will not remain the same because you do not have an absolute majority. When they do not have it they seem to seek covenants; when they have it, they do not seek it. This party, the Socialist Party, bears the seal of the great pacts of state, pacts when it is in opposition and pacts when it is in government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Trillo. As no amendments were tabled, we moved on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. With this motion there are already several socialist initiatives on Lomce and other rules with an impact on the whole educational policy of scholarships, university, vocational training, compulsory secondary education, which in one way or another portrays what responds to an entire objection to any claim to modify the LOE and the existing provisions prior to the PP governments promoted by the Socialist Party. Curiously, however, in this XII Legislature there has not yet been any initiative on the baccalaureate and its significance, and in this regard it would be interesting to know the position of the proposing group and that of other parliamentary groups, because we are at the back of the world with our two young men, who are typical of a bad course of crafts. There is also no mention of public and private teacher selection systems, perhaps because this field is unprofitable, dangerous or you should know. Nor about the structure of the non-university system. In short, Mr Díaz, we are left with an already quite usual and until the next one. By the way, it does not even mention the state of work and the accumulated delay of the parliamentary subcommittee created here in Congress on the educational pact, which would well deserve a greater effort and which is perceived. Once again, since Forum we reiterate that conceptually the school system is the basis of the economic and social development of Spain and it is essential changes in its design with the aim of combining it with the progress of the economy and society. At the Forum, as described in our electoral programme, we believe that we must go to a model of education based on the certainty that the axis of education is the individual and the family as possessing fundamental rights, but we also advocate the liberalisation of the school system, with the educational centre as the foundation of a modern and renewed Spain. As a basis for the desired equality, we renew our affirmation in the principle of diversity and not in uniformity, but that diversity is not in conflict with the necessary and measurable homogeneity inherent in a single school system. The contrary gives rise to serious situations against the constitutional order, which have been incubated since the 1990s in a school such as that covered by the Socialist Group in paragraph 5 of its motion. But have they not yet been counted on what is the path and what is the goal of the nationalist school? It is necessary to focus on structural changes but also on how to teach, what to teach and how to learn. It shouldn't just be about patching up old projects. The ultimate goal would be for the Spanish school to orient its operation towards the formation of a new society based on greater equity and social justice from an equal opportunity. In view of this initiative, I would point out that I share your financial diagnosis, but by maintaining the general framework of the LOE, and of course your pedagogical conception - a quote that was later recognized by the then Minister Mr Wert - the motion does very little to solve the serious shortcomings of our school model, beyond the statistical improvements, which always come well, although in education the important thing is the medium and long term statistics. [[Rumors]] We don't make any amendments to them today except for the whole...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u34	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u35	... because this motion is floral, sterile and persistently salad-like, with certain absences and fundamental deficiencies. Having said that, they should be asked to be reflective and to agree with the PP and socialists, trade unions and employers, in order to agree on a common regulatory development within a re-updated financial framework and in the development of all pending teacher updates, including the evaluation, structure and up-to-date school organisation. In short, I will vote against your motion and urge you, as a party that can no doubt be a government party, to have more rigour, reflection and consensus-building on a subject of enormous present and future, such as education. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. From the seat because I'll be very brief. This is a typical motion of the Socialist Party, and when I say typical I do not do it with a derogatory sense, it is a finding of reality. The Socialist Party usually brings motions with many points, too many points, which make you agree with some and others not. Evidently, this buffoon that usually appears in these kinds of motions generates a somewhat rare situation, because it starts with one thing, it follows with another, it mixes vocational training with scholarships, with money for education. Sometimes it gives the feeling that what is being raised is the top-down election program. And, of course, with some issues we can agree, others may seem right or wrong, and with others we obviously do not agree, because sometimes, in that desire to want to ask the Government for everything, it is asked for things that are not the responsibility of the Government, but are the responsibility of other Governments. In this case the patita enters the door that it should not and, before that, we will always stand because we consider that, as the Statute says, the field of education is transferred matter and Euskadi is competent in this matter. In addition, we are tired of them constantly wanting to include subjects of education as if they were always State subjects, and they are not. We will defend this above all because, seeing the policy that the Government of the State is carrying, with constant resources to the scholarships, to the decree, etc., we are already tired. That is why we are going to ask you, once and for all, not to enter the education sector from the State, because it does not belong to you and because we are competent in this area. Vocational training. If anyone has anything to offer about how things have been done, it can be Euskadi, who is competent in that matter. And as far as national plans are concerned, this is not what we care most about at the moment or what we like most, especially with regard to vocational training, because the Government is not competent because we have that competence. In a paragraph we cannot insert what we have all clearly said that we are against Lomce; of course. We're going round and round, and what has to be done once and for all is to organize something that replaces the Lomce. The Commission will finish its work at some point, it will come up with something and see how the Government responds to this thesis, because the Government has not yet said directly that it will approve what is decided and that it will replace Lomce. Here there are a number of things, such as the invalids, with which we agree; we have said from the beginning that they make no sense and must disappear. Finally, the resources made available both from scholarships and decrees, etc., have already been raised on other occasions, we have already shown our commitment and what needs to be done is to go directly to change the system in what is incumbent on the Government and what is not incumbent on it, not to enter. We are going to ask you to vote on points because there are a number of issues, as I have already said, with which we agree and others with which we do not agree. For example, the state observatory of coexistence does not know if it is another artifact - forgive me the expression - to turn around and do nothing. We've seen enough of these things. Like the subject of resorting to the sectoral conference. The sectoral conference is not an assembly in which a majority decides how things should be. Above the sectoral conference are the statutes of autonomy, the competences that each community has, and each one decides what is done in its community, regardless of what can be discussed at the sectoral conference. That being said, we shall see which points we are voting for and which points we are voting against, if it is considered appropriate to vote by points. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is bringing us today with it a motion for an inquiry where it says that it is talking about two things. Firstly, on the balance sheet of education policy and, secondly, on the prospects for this course. I'm going in parts. On the record of education policy in this country, what I am going to tell those who are parents, what I am going to tell them about that we are a country that currently has the highest early school drop-out in the European Union and that our children have a very low level of English and a very low level of skills that are needed in the information society. We have a system with brutal territorial inequalities; studying in certain autonomous communities means a year of schooling less than in others. We have an educational system where it is really necessary to increase the skills in mathematics and reading skills in order to be able to score at the level of the rest of the countries in PISA. I could tell you a lot of things, but I don't have time. But if I had to summarise the balance of the educational policy of these years in this country, I would focus on one thing: it has been a system in which education has been used by political parties as a bold weapon and has been painted in one or another color according to who was in the government; a system in which educational policy has been used to make frentist policies because with the electoral calculator the old parties thought that this gave rise. It seems to me that anyone who continues with this frentist option at the current juncture is going to be wrong, and a lot. The second part is the perspective of this educational course. Same thing, what do you want me to tell you? What do you want me to tell those of us who are parents, who watch TV and read the newspapers and how there are certain political parties that are saying that we are in a warm autumn? Thanks to Citizens, a climate of consensus and work had been achieved within the framework of the subcommission for the pact, as mentioned here, where we supposedly had to strive to give the limbs for a new educational law that would once and for all remove the Lomce, which we practically do not like any; well, to Wert and little more. But, as I said, three things have happened at this time: one good and two bad. The good thing is that we have worked and we have done so rigorously, Mr de Foro Asturias, we have worked and very much all the political groups seeking consensus, even if you have said no. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u40	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u41	But there have been two bad things because the scorpion, as the saying says, in the end remains the scorpion. The first bad thing that has happened is that, indeed, after this summer, the new PSOE may have returned to the walks and has presented itself, marking territory, with three proposals of law that really do not talk about anything important, with an absolute disloyalty even to the PSOE himself, who had requested the pact for the subcommission. The three legislative proposals speak of the issues that are political sufflamas for the PSOE: religion, concerts and Education for Citizenship, and do not speak of the essential issues, such as school failure, issues of inequality or issues of competence. In the spirit of amendment, we have been brought with us this motion with a battery, a cauldron of proposals which I have already announced that we have asked to vote for points because, as my colleague from the Basque Nationalist Party has said, the barbecues cannot be mixed with the merinas and voted for all of one. The second bad thing that has happened - and, I repeat, the scorpion remains the scorpion - is that the government of the PP, the Ministry of Education, has understood that the freezing of the Lomce that we have agreed with the government, as Méndez de Vigo would say, has understood it with the Sinatra doctrine: in its own way. The ministry has understood that the constitution of the covenant for education is synonymous with a veneration for inaction or for stubble, and this has nothing to do with it. One thing is to create a climate of dialogue and understanding and another is to make a policy of fallen arms, such as that being done by the People's Party Government in the Valencian Community, where time is running out and we continue to wait for it to carry the unconstitutionality resource for the subject of multilingualism. The violation of rights has to be handled by the Government and I am not surprised that the PP Government here is becoming an accomplice to the PSOE and Compromises, as has happened in other times. Look, we believe that we must work loyally in the Legislature, in the Subcommission, work together to seek consensus, but with the Executive, as the PSOE has proposed, we must be very demanding; we must be very demanding with the Executive of the Central Government and with the Executive of the Autonomous Communities, and there they will find us. With regard to the specific issue that we are dealing with, progress has already been made, as my colleague from the Basque Nationalist Party has done, which we call for the point vote. We agree with the substance of some issues, such as the vocational training drive plan, the learning improvement programmes or the urgent launch of the coexistence observatory, which we have been calling for for for more than a year. But we disagree in many others, such as on the issue that there is no diagnostic evidence or how we disagree with the scholarship system proposed by the Socialist Party, which we already vote in the subcommittee. We do not believe that devaluing education is the model; we believe that we need to have a quality education that allows everyone to access it. I would like to conclude by referring to this morning's Committee on Education, which has been exemplary. We have drawn by consensus very important issues for the children of this country, proposed by my parliamentary group but also by the Socialist Party, the People's Party and other groups. We have urged the Government - to see if it does so at once - to put in place a national plan for the prevention of dyslexia. We have called for the inclusion in the school curriculum of the theme of the history of the Roma community, which has been proposed by another party. We have asked, as the representative of the Socialist Party has said, that time should be extended so that children with special educational needs can remain in the FP for up to twenty-one years. This is what we have to do, this is what is worthwhile and for what we have to work for. We have said from the outset that we will be found in everything that is working for better education and in everything that is working for important issues. We are not going to give up, because education for us is essential, and we are therefore going to demand the Government to exercise its functions and not to do cross-arm politics. I said it a long time ago. In support of joint measures, in support of work for better education we will always be. In support of unilateral measures, in support of strenuous measures that seek to demagogy, never. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u43	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, of the ten measures that the Socialist Party is presenting to us today for its debate in plenary, we are in particular in agreement with the premise on which they are based, which is to talk about education seriously again in this House. We have been in a subcommission for months by the so-called social and political pact for education, months during which Lomce remains in force and, equally worrying, months in which debate and educational policies have been completely paralysed by the excuse of reaching an educational pact. This subcommission for the educational pact was created, as the spokesman of Citizens likes to remember, without our contest and with our subsequent abstention. It is true that we came to this House with the electoral promise to repeal the Lomce and our proposal was the definitive repeal of the Lomce... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u44	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u45	...and not a one-year extension, as we've been doing. And it is true that we remain very reticent with this process because for us the only educational pact that makes sense is the pact with the public. It is the pact with the public because the problem we have in this country in the field of education is the state of abandonment in which the public network and its teachers are found; it is the pact with the public because the right to education, article 27, is achieved with a public network as the main protagonist and backbone of the entire education system. We have also been pointing out for months that any pact that does not shield the education budget will be a simple and outright fraud. The OECD itself, whose recommendations to remind the government so much, estimates that the basic investment in education should be 7%. This is something that the majority of participants in the subcommittee have also pointed out, and even the People's Party sometimes gave them reason. However, we cannot forget that in the last General State Budgets we have seen investment fall from 4.6% to 3.7% of GDP, placing ourselves once again in the European tail van. We're the first, but by the tail. In a few weeks - we will see -, as we continue in the subcommittee discussing how to improve the education system, the government will present the general budgets for 2018 and that is where we will really see the will of this government with education and whether or not an educational pact is possible. Surely, when the Government continues without reversing cuts, when it continues without reinforcing such important items as attention to diversity or teacher training, the Government will again tell us that it is not all about investing, that education does not improve just by putting more money. And it is true that it also depends on where the money is going and that's why we say that if that money goes to scholarships, to scholarships that recover the character of subjective law, to equip the centers with more staff so that we can lower the ratios and offer each student the attention he needs, if that money goes to stabilize the teaching staff, to help the families that most need it in the acquisition of school material, to improve the infrastructures and to close all the barracks once, then yes, the same thing invests more is one of the first steps to improve education in our country. And in this motion the Socialist Party presents us with ten measures on very different subjects, we understand that with the intention of covering as much as possible to mark a position in the face of this principle of course, and we announce that we are going to vote yes to this motion because it seems reasonable to us, although we want to warn the Socialist Party of one thing, and it is that the educational community that mobilized against the Lomce, the Green Sea, the thousands of families and the thousands of students and teachers expect from us, the Socialist Party and Podemos, more than a minimal agreement with the People's Party. You know that a completely different educational policy is needed and that we need to put the debate on the problems and needs of a public network back at the centre, which must be a guarantee of equity and social cohesion. The other day he read a data that cannot pass us unnoticed: according to the main trade union centres, during the years of the crisis public investment, the investment in the public educational network dropped 16 points while the investment in the subsidized private network rose 3. This fact should not go unnoticed, because it seems that this mantra that only by putting money does not improve education the Government only applies it to the public, never applies it to the concerted. [[Applauds]] In our opinion, therefore, without the strengthening and extension of the public network, without a state agreement for investment in the public network and without a teacher with decent conditions, no matter whether we sign a pact or twenty, we will only disappoint that educational community that has been fighting for public education for years and years. We therefore begin this course by supporting this motion of the Socialist Party and we hope to continue to meet throughout this course in defence of an education for all and for all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs González Guinda. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last speech of the afternoon, please be quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u47	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again from the Socialist Party and also from other parties we are faced with a catastrophic situation in the education system. But not only catastrophic, Mr. Díaz Trillo brought us here today a bucolic view of the work that we are doing both in the ministry and in the Sub-Committee on Education. They have put here adjectives as cheater, liar and relaxed about the work that is being done in the Subcommission of Education and, coming from who comes, from a component of that Subcommission, really offends. It offends me because these last few months I can assure you that it has been a few months of intense work, and you know it very well, to be in the morning and late with continuous presentations by various interlocutors who have come to the subcommittee, all of them relevant. To say here that we have a bucolic and relaxed spirit in the subcommission to me personally does offend me. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I will enter into the objective that I understand has the presentation of this motion. I take the words of his lordship, Ana María Botella, referring precisely to Citizens at the first point this afternoon, in which he accused them of using with electoral revenue a series of measures when they were to be dealt with in the subcommittee that this House has formed for this purpose. I gather those same words and send them to you, Mr. Díaz Trillo, since that subcommission is for what it is and it gives me the impression that what you have tried to do is to delegitimate it. As for the words of everything changes so that everything remains the same, I will name you the Minister's words last Wednesday: To change something one must be aware of what we can improve. The mission of the subcommission - I remind you, subcommission whose formation was requested by the PSOE together with Citizens and the PP in November 2016 - was to prepare a report on the state and situation of the Spanish educational system containing a diagnosis, proposals and conclusions contained in the state pact. To know that such a diagnosis would bring you here ten months later, as well as the solutions, I assure you that the work of that subcommittee would have been unnecessary. In recent months the work has been difficult - I repeat - with representatives of the educational community, national and international experts, social organizations, educational associations, trade unions, various platforms and representatives of the country's scientific and cultural society. I want to think - I begin to doubt it - that the PSOE continues to have intact the trust deposited in the subcommission. The People's Group does have it intact in view of reaching the long-awaited pact in which the eyes of both the educational community and the citizens are set, in order to try to reach a law with stability, with a projection of the future, which is undoubtedly the basis of educational quality. As regards the points dealt with in the motion, the national plan for the promotion of vocational training, I would like to say that the Ministry itself is already developing this plan for vocational training education, especially dual vocational training, with the idea of making it a first option between the student who completes ESO education and the baccalaureate. I gather several points together, since in the Royal Decree of 2016, urgent measures for the extension of the Lomce implementation calendar were said: Until the entry into force of the regulations resulting from the social pact, these measures allude both to the assessment and to the guarantees for the possibility of obtaining the degree of graduate of the ESO for students who are undergoing basic vocational training. Well, that royal decree was validated in this House with the vote in favour of the Socialist Group and it is now that you delegitimize the work of the subcommission and claim that prior to the pact this measure will be established as definitive. If we continue with spending on education, I have to say that although it has increased from 9% GDP to 9.47 since 2013, many of the experts who have gone through the subcommission have stressed that the relevant thing is not the percentage of gross domestic product, but the annual expenditure per pupil as a percentage of GDP per capita, and here, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the OECD and European Union average, about 21% in primary and 25.4% in secondary. I have to say that there are many voices from the experts who point out that efficiency is not synonymous with spending. The clearest example is in the comparison of our autonomous communities, which, as you know very well, manage 95% of total expenditure on education. Well, autonomous communities with the best results PISA, like Castile and León, are not exactly the ones that make the most expenditure and investment, unlike others that double the investment and are far below the international rankings. I do not want to go into more detail on the following points, Mr President. The popular party's vote is not going to make sense, but we are open to agreements on the points discussed, and we believe that they must be dealt with within the framework that we have now established in this House, the subcommittee created for the elaboration of a political and territorial social state pact for education. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-26-CD170926.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs González. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that, according to the agreement of the Board of Spokesmen, since this afternoon's sitting also takes place in the Senate, the vote on the points we have discussed this afternoon will be taken next Thursday. There are no further matters to be dealt with, and the meeting is adjourned. It was five and ten minutes in the afternoon.
