ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order referred. Questions to the President of the Government. He asked first of all Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u2	Thank you, President. Mr President, when is your Government going to launch the initiatives approved for the implementation of the gender-based violence pact?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Robles. I think it is important that in this matter - we have done so and that we continue to do so in the future - we maintain the spirit of consensus with which we have always worked. As you know, in the investiture debate I committed myself to pushing forward a state pact against gender-based violence, I also took it to the Conference of Presidents. It is very reasonable to listen to those who work more directly with the victims. For the same reason, we have counted on the contributions of almost half a hundred entities through the State Observatory for Violence against Women and, as you know, both in Congress and in the Senate, both reports have been approved. I would like to thank the parliamentary groups for their efforts. The documents have been forwarded to the Government, the Government is now dealing with them with the various autonomous communities as well as various non-governmental organizations, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Office of the Prosecutor, etc. We want the agreement to be signed throughout December on the basis of what has been agreed here and in the Senate, which, as it could not otherwise be, is very similar. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Robles, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u6	Mr. Rajoy, as of the year goes, we have forty murdered women victims of male violence, eight minors murdered, twenty-three orphans. This is not statistical, I would like to have enough time here to mention the names of all the people killed by the macho violence and pay our tribute to them, that I would like. Since 2011, you have rejected all the initiatives proposed to you by the Socialist Party, the Socialist Group, to combat macho violence. We have finally managed to get a State Pact against Gender Violence adopted, but look, that is a minimum pact, it is a pact that the Socialist Party has adopted because of the sense of responsibility, because we could not leave women without protection, and precisely because it is a minimum pact we will be absolutely demanding to ensure that they are implemented. It's been two months and you're telling me about studies. Not a single initiative has been put forward in this Parliament to ensure that the necessary laws for the development of the State Pact against Gender Violence are put in place; nor has an activity been carried out by you to return powers to the municipalities and the corresponding economic resources. Yesterday we had to ask them to prepare a decree-law, because as there will be budget extensions women victims of gender-based violence need the necessary budget increases and at least 200 million euros for next year. You have not made policies of equality, you have abolished subjects such as Education for Citizenship, and currently 27 per cent of young people in this country consider that gender-based violence in the field of couples is normal. What are you guys doing? That is why I say to you that if you do not present those legislative initiatives and others, we will do so, because the women in this country, the victims of sexist violence, do not resist a minute more. No more pictures, no more campaigning, get to work. We can't allow there to be one more woman killed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Robles. I believe that the agreement that has been reached here and in the Senate is a good agreement, it is a good pact, and of course if I thought it was not good, be sure that I would not sign it. In the same way I say to you that of course the will of the Government - and I understand that also that of the People's Parliamentary Group - is to maintain that agreement over time. It is true that much remains to be done, but it is also true, Your Honor, that we do not start from scratch. We are making progress; in recent years, the number of victims has been reduced, complaints have increased again after several years down, we have reached the highest number of calls to 016, and protection orders have increased. I also have to say that successive governments - also yours, but of course ours - have worked very hard against gender-based violence and there have been laws in the years 2003 and 2004, many in the past legislature and also in this one. Therefore, the pact is already being implemented and I certainly want to point out that next year there will be the endowment that was approved yesterday in Congress and that in the budgets of 2016 and 2017 the endowment has increased. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u9	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WILL THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT RESPECT THE RESULTS OF THE ELECTIONS OF 21 DECEMBER IN CATALUNIA IF INDEPENDENTISM WINS? [[File number 180/00449]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u10	He also asked the President of the Government, Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, Mr Rajoy, the question is simple: will the Spanish Government respect the results of the elections on 21 December if it wins independence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Rufián, of course I will respect the outcome of the elections. These are elections that I have called in my capacity as President of the Government, and I have done so because the Senate has empowered me and can do so under the Spanish Constitution. We are therefore in the midst of legal elections under the laws in force to elect Members of Parliament in Catalonia - for this is what they are for - and of course we will respect the results, so far we could get there! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that yes, you summoned them from an office, that is, they are illegitimate, because the President of the Generalitat, the President of Catalonia is the only one who can call elections. [[Rumors]] Having said that, don't worry because we will introduce ourselves and surely win them. And the question goes in that direction: If we win, won't we see you collecting signatures? If we win, won't we see that kind of white eye of the cave, named Pablo Casado, remembering Companies to see what we're going to vote for? If we win, won't we see Mrs. De Cospedal calling the Army in line? If we win, won't we see the police beating up the people who want to vote, nor will we see a ferry with the face of a Piolin in the port of Barcelona? If we win, won't we see elected Catalan politicians in jail? If we win, will we not see practically inquisitorial trials in which almost the Spanish flag is kissed by those who are being tried? If we win, won't we see you and your red white brand and your orange white brand facilitate business flight? If we win, will we not see you applying an article of the Constitution, 155, which I hope will apply 47 and 128, which are much more beautiful and much more worthy? In short, on 21 December, Mr Rajoy, will they behave as jailers or democrats? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u16	Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u17	I don't know, Mr. Rufián, what do you want me to say? With complete frankness, you say that the elections are illegitimate but then you say that they are going to run for illegitimate elections. You should be able to explain this. In any case, if you don't, I can assure you nothing happens either. [[Laughter]] Mr Rufián, if you win the elections you only have to do one thing: govern, respect the legislation in force, respect the rights of minorities - if you win - and not harm the economy of the citizens of Catalonia. And that's the point, and we're all calm. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Is it acceptable to deny information to Parliament under an agreement of the 1986 GOVERNMENT COUNCIL? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00466]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u18	He also asked the chairman of Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo of the Basque Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u19	Good morning. Mr President, it seems acceptable to you to deny Parliament information, and more recently about Operation Copernicus in Catalonia, on the basis of an agreement of the 1986 Governing Council.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. It is true, the agreement is of 1986, in which certain matters and subjects are classified according to the Law on Official Secrets. He knows that the law confers on the Government that competence for affecting security and defence, which I certainly find very reasonable. What we have done is to implement a regulation that is there and that has been applied by all governments since 1986. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u23	Mr President, while admitting that this agreement of more than thirty-one years ago, by a government of Mr González, would have been legal, the text is absolutely full of military references, which has nothing to do with the questions you have recently been asked. Nor could it rely on it because Parliament is asking for information on matters that have nothing to do with the security plans of agencies and institutions, far beyond, and the only reference you can grasp is that. And thirdly, because you know that the Secrets Act itself states in its section 10.2 that the declaration of classified matters will not affect the Congress of Deputies or the Senate, which will always have access to as much information as they claim in the manner in which they determine the respective regulations and, where appropriate, in secret sessions. You cannot simply deny Parliament the possibility, which is what you do in your reply. It is an agreement of 1986 which has a generic character for an endless number of subjects, Mr President, when it should be classified as a document because that is also the spirit of the law, deciding what is classified as a reserved or secret. It is an absolutely abusive agreement, made at a time of great terrorist activity; it is an absolutely abusive agreement, I repeat, and de facto amends the law without the acquiescence of Parliament. And it is based on a law that, as you well know, Mr President, is 1968, a law of the dictatorship, of the Franco era, and this Congress of Deputies, at the request of my parliamentary group, already a year ago took into consideration a reform of that law. There is a will on the part of Parliament to reform it. The Group of the European People's Party has submitted 28 extensions of the deadline and next week will be one year since it was taken into consideration. Mr President, it is not a receipt, so I ask you to repeal this government agreement, firstly, as soon as possible, and secondly, to let you debate and pass a new Official Secrets Act.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban, as you know and deduce from your own words, this is not the first time that there has been a request for such information, and the response of all governments since that date, 1986, is the same. The reason, in my view, is very justified, and it is that the dissemination of information on security plans can put the effectiveness of security plans at risk and thus the institutions and persons under protection. If the information requested is confidential, it is reasonable that it should not be provided under the Official Secrets Act and the 1986 Agreement, and I believe that for this purpose it is irrelevant whether the agreement is 1986, 1995 or a year ago. Please note that we are talking about sensitive information whose dissemination may harm or endanger the security and defence of the State. Therefore, it is not only a matter of legal grounds or an argument, such as the agreement of the Council of Ministers, based on the Official Secrets Act. It is that publishing certain plans or actions may pose a risk to safety, to action and therefore to people. From there, if you want to amend this law, if you want to have a more precise, clearer and understandable regulation, I am prepared to speak, but it is appropriate that we do so in this matter with wisdom and common sense because, as you very well know, we are not talking about anything, but about an important issue that affects the defence and security of people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u26	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE PRESENT IMPULSE MEASURES TO PROTECT THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN VICTIMS OF SEXUAL AGREES? [[File number 180/00458]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u27	Questions now to the Minister of Justice. Question by Adriana Lastra Fernández, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in the battle we waged against gender-based violence we continued to lose. The latest macro-survey of violence against women says that almost one and a half million women acknowledge having suffered sexual violence outside the sphere of the partner or ex-partner and that more than two million acknowledge having had relationships bonded by one of their former partners. With this data, are you planning to promote measures to protect the rights of women victims of sexual assault?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u29	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u30	Thank you, President. Your Honor, of course we are, and we are working in this Congress of Deputies and with your parliamentary political group, you know it very well, as we have done in the past. Many things have been done, work has continued because it seems to me to be a real priority, as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, at least to have better laws and to have a better regulatory framework to eradicate this scourge of violence from our society. This is certainly a goal and we will work on it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lastra, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u32	Thank you. Minister, I'd really like to believe you, but do you know what's going on? That at this point in the year, the funds allocated to the fight against sexual assaults that were to be transferred to the autonomous communities, for example, have not yet been. It is therefore very difficult for them to be executed. We are now beginning to hear cases of sexual abuse and assault after many years of silence from the victims, even when there is a plurality of victims, such as the Seville psychiatrist, for example. This confirms that this is a society in which victims need all the support, especially from the public authorities. Within the judicial sphere, we are tired of three things: first, that every time there is sexual assault against a woman the first trial is on the victim; second, that we are tired of the strategies of defending the aggressors go through defaming, denigrating and humiliating the victims with the tolerance of the organs that should protect them and, third, we are tired also of the victims of wild rape, multiple and 'hand', feeling alone and helpless. [[Applauds]] Almudena Grandes said a few days ago that what the court of this trial is passing on to society is that to be believed, respected, a woman must continue to suffer after she has suffered. What we expect from this Chamber today, and from you as a minister, must be a clear, very clear message. Let them know that we believe them, that they are not alone, that we do not accept from anyone - from anyone - who blames them, that the fault is never the victim's and that it is not. That, of course, they have the right to remake their lives, that we will support them for it and that a smile will never be a proof of charge against them, never. That is what society expects of us, of this House; that is what the Socialist Group expects. And above all, a message of hope: that the public authorities - also the Ministry of Justice - will do everything possible to ensure that cases like this do not happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u33	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u34	Thank you, President. Your Honor, absolutely agree. We have done many things; I used to hear Mrs Robles criticizing that they had not been done. I think they can appreciate it more or less. The Criminal Code had been reformed, the Criminal Prosecution Act had been reformed, victims of violence had been granted free legal assistance, the Voluntary Jurisdiction Act had been amended to establish inheritance inequality; many things had been done and no doubt they should continue to be done. I totally agree with you that never, ever, the victims have to be those who demonstrate that they have some responsibility for the aggression they have suffered, rather on the contrary. Your Honor, there is a very important sociological fact, more than 52 per cent of the judicial career today are women. All judges, all judges, are trained in many issues and, in particular, in raising awareness of gender-based violence. We have just reached a very important political agreement in this House to address multiple reforms in this area. So, we're not going to budge. But, on the other hand, Your Honor, the right to defence is a universal right. Anyone, even the most abject offender, has the right to defence and, therefore, in their defence strategy, lawyers have to exercise it. I am sure that an independent court, a professional court will never be contaminated by arguments that are not firm, by evidence that is not true but will be guided, above all, by the testimonies of the victims who suffer the crime. The Statute of the Victims of Crime, which was adopted in this House in the 10th Legislature, has strengthened the position of victims of all crimes, and in particular of crimes of sexual assault, who know that they have all democracy and all institutions at their side. We will continue to work on this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u35	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED GONZALEZ ELORZA GONZALEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW'S THE GRAND OF COMPLIANCE FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF HISTORY MEMORY LAW IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS? [[File number 180/00459]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u36	He also asked the Minister, Mr Odón Elorza González, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u37	Egun on. Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is ten years since the passing of the Historical Memory Act. Is the government complying with this law? Is the Government complying with the recommendations of the UN Human Rights Commission, a working group on enforced disappearances? Is the Government and the State fulfilling its obligation to cooperate with the exhumation of some other person who is in the hundreds of mass graves that still exist in Spain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u38	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u39	Thank you, President. That's right, Mr. Olorza. It was ten years after the adoption of the law establishing measures for the recognition of the rights of persons who had suffered violence during the Civil War and during the dictatorship. I believe - and we can talk about it in the short time we have - that many things are being done, but always from commitment, from respect and also from sensitivity to this matter. The law itself established that this was intended to generate a reunion between the Spaniards, to generate solidarity and I believe that is the line on which we are working. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Elorza, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u41	Minister, it is an answer that does not satisfy us; it is an answer that seems to be typical of tardifranchism. [[Rumors]] Yeah. Are you aware that we still have, in this democratic and legal state, the dictator buried in an altar presiding over the remains of 33,700 victims of the Civil War? Is that something exemplary? Does that help reconciliation? Does that help to bring justice, truth, reparation to the victims of repression and dictatorship? Do you think it's possible that a dictator is at an altar in this country? Do you think it is possible that there are still hundreds - more than 100,000 people - in mass graves, in a bad way, without being able to regain their dignity as people, without any help from the State? You have been in government for six years and have not collaborated in the opening of any pit in Spain, of any kind! It's a real ignominy, it's a real indignity. You do not collaborate in reconciliation, you do not collaborate in harmony; you practice forgetfulness, contempt; you do not help memory. Therefore, I ask you, please, that the State take the lead, that the State fulfil its obligation, that it allocate funds, that it finance the opening of the pits, that it recover the dignity of the victims, that it make a plan of exhumations, that the commission of truth is created, that, please, a DNA bank is created, that families are helped, that the situation of the Valley of the Fallen is ended, that, please, you do not lie. They comply with the law and comply with the recommendations of the United Nations, which are not complying with them because you are installed in national Catholicism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u42	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u43	Thank you, President. Mr. Elorza, you are committed to saying that nothing is done in this area because you do not see in the General Budgets Act of the State a specific item for this, but you, who have also managed a public administration, know that this is an absolute fallacy. Let's see if they are going to say that we do nothing about voluntary jurisdiction because there is no budget line on voluntary jurisdiction, or that nothing is done about civil prosecution. A lot of things are done, a lot of performances are done. Look, a news website doesn't keep up the air. The granting of recognition to persons who have suffered a violation of rights is done only with public resources, with officials, with structures; the management of consultations carried out by thousands of people every day in the Ministry of Justice is done with public resources. Therefore, of course resources are allocated and of course we are working in that direction. The withdrawal of symbols is a continuous, permanent activity, which, as you very well know, belongs to the public administrations; it is not an exclusive responsibility of the General Administration of the State, it is also of the autonomous communities, it is also of the municipalities. His colleague, the mayor of Vigo, Abel Caballero, will be able to explain very well why he has supported, for example, the maintenance of the Castro Cross in Vigo, which has also had the support of the courts. Therefore, what we want is to work on the actual implementation of a law that seeks to re-encounter, that seeks to forget the past and also to make a recognition of the victims; daily there are people who are receiving benefits, compensation, pensions, all of which are contributions from public budgets for the implementation of Law 52/2007. I believe, Your Honor, that we are applying the law, that public administrations are applying it, not just look at the government, look at all public administrations, and if we add all the resources that are being used, we would see that we are all applying an obligation that we agreed in this House in 2007. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u44	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IRENE MARÍA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE PUBLIC INFORMATION SITTING TO THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE JOINT TO THE EXMINISTRATION OF HIS PARTNER AND THE IMPUTATE IGNAZALIZED GONZALEZ AS PART OF A PROCESS TO 'SECURE' THE CHIEF TAX POST OF THE NATIONAL HEARING? [[File number 180/00454]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u45	He also asked the Minister of Justice of Mrs Irene María Montero Gil of the Confederal Group of the United States of America, Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u46	Thank you, President. Minister, how does the government value the public information that puts you, the Minister of Justice, as part of a plot to 'assured' the position of Chief Prosecutor of the National Court?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u47	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u48	Mrs Montero, I recognize that it is very difficult for me to appreciate what one says that you have been told to say for another to do. No, I'm not commenting on private conversations - you call it public but it's rather private - that have no basis. In any case, as you very well know, the appointment of prosecutors - which is what this is about - is certainly carried out by the Government, on the proposal of the Attorney General, after having voted on it in the Fiscal Council. See if there have to be parts that have to be involved in an appointment so that someone can do that frivolity of saying they tell you they've told you to do it. It seems to me that we should devote ourselves to something more serious in this House, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u49	Mrs. Montero, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u50	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Catalá, I'm going to talk to you about coincidences. Look, there are conversations intercepted by the Civil Guard - not only the media have published them, they are intercepted by the Civil Guard - between the former minister of his party, Mr. Zaplana, and Mr. Ignacio González, and in those conversations they both talk first of placing Mr. Moix as Chief Anti-Corruption Prosecutor and then Mr. Alonso as Chief Prosecutor of the National Court. They both say you need to talk to you for the operation to come out and what a coincidence they both end up in the two positions they were talking to. [[Applauds]] I do not know whether with you as a minister justice is the same for all, but I am clear that while you are a minister the wishes of a suspected head of a criminal plot, such as Lezo, are coming true and that is serious for our country, Minister. You expect that all this will not happen to you, and now, in addition, with the situation that we live in Catalonia, that this can cover up your corruption. It is no coincidence that Mr Mariano Rajoy, the President of the Government, had such a good eye by choosing the ministers of justice; he has chosen two, you, who stoically stand in that chair despite being reprobated by this House for protecting the corrupt of his party, and rather Mr Gallardón, who is now accused of a plot of corruption, as is the Lezo plot. [[Applauds]] Look, perhaps the next thing you have to do is to put Ignacio González as Minister of Justice, which is perhaps what you are already thinking. But, look, we've seen something much worse these days. We have seen how in those same conversations a Mariano appears who would have called the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor to settle the corruption issues of the husband of the Minister of Defense, Mrs. Cospedal. That's also on those recordings. It is a pity that you have not been able to erase those recordings thirty-five times, as you did with the Barcenas hard drives, but these conversations speak for themselves. And I will ask you three things: the first, to stop playing with the institutions to cover up their corruption and to fix their internal problems; the second, to clarify to us, on behalf of the Government, whether that Mariano is the same M. Rajoy who appears in the papers of Bárcenas and if it has something to do with the President of the Government, because, if not, any citizen can end up thinking that they refer to the President of the Government and that would be a real shame for Spain; and the last and most important - I will not tire of repeating it -, to stop being a corrupt party and to return the last stolen euro to the Spanish, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u51	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u52	Thank you, President. Your Honor, if I were to comment on private conversations, we would all have to be shocked - and you would be the first, surely - when we heard of someone who was going to whip someone until he bled or described a woman as crazy and unhinged orca. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] If we were to worry about private conversations, Mr. Yllanes would have to be very concerned when Mr. Currency told him to take care of what he was saying... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u53	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u54	Or when Mr. Spinar called his partner a subnormal. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u55	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u56	We do not engage in private conversations, Your Honor, we do not engage in gossip, we dedicate ourselves to making justice work every day. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u57	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u58	Therefore, I am sure that when all matters that are known to the courts are resolved, all of you, too, will know what is true and what is not true and are merely speculations. Therefore, it would be very reasonable to wait until then. Anyway, we're all going to have a lot of information, we're going to know that some of you say that you were filling up the money in Venezuela and Iran's B. [[Rumors.-Applause from Mrs Montero Gil and Mr Iglesias Turrion]] They say it, they say it, and they say it in public, they say it in Parliament... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u59	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u60	Therefore, it may be as true as other things we hear out there. You give us all lessons and then you hug Otegi. You think it's very good regimes where I don't know who appoints prosecutors, but prosecutors don't have to run out of Spain like they do out of Venezuela to report murders. Therefore, lessons from you, ladies and gentlemen, the just. In any case, it is better to be with democracy, it is better to be with the systems of choice of transparent and absolutely participatory prosecutors than to be with the most corrupt political systems on the planet, which is where you are. I don't want to be where you are, and therefore lessons from all of you just. [[Applause in the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.-Applause from Mrs Montero Gil and Mr Iglesias Turrion]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GOVERNMENT OF THE BLACK TARNO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN'S PARTICIPATION IN THE Launch OF THE PERMANENT STRUCTURED COOPERATION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION? [[File number 180/00463]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u61	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Ricardo Tarno Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, despite the fact that European integration in the field of security and defence already has a long history, it has not been until the last year when real progress has been made in this regard. 2017 has been a key year for this, and I would like to congratulate you on your decision and your contribution, Minister, in advancing this issue. Today Spain is at the forefront of the European contribution to defence. Europe needs leadership to move forward and respond to citizens' concerns and Spain is proving to be a serious, reliable and constructive partner that defends more and better integration. Security has already become one of the main concerns of European citizens. The growing instability in our closest borders as well as in the rest of the world contributes to this. In this context, we Europeans must take more responsibility for our security and defence than ever before. Many of the threats we face today do not understand borders. While sovereign States remain on the front line and are responsible for the deployment of their armed forces, new types of threats can be much better prevented if we work together. The protection of our society, our freedoms, our way of life and our values is the responsibility of all. If we want the next generations of Europe to live in peace, we need to deepen the policy of integration of security and defence. Mr Juncker said recently that he was also convinced that we must work for a stronger Europe in terms of security and defence. That is why, Madam Minister, I would like to appreciate the decision that Spain has taken in launching the European Union's Permanent Structured Cooperation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u63	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. Spain has indeed had the honour, privilege and, above all, the conviction to lead together with France, Italy and Germany the relaunch of the Europe of Defence, of permanent structured cooperation, in the terms laid down in Articles 42 and 46 of the Treaty on European Union. We are convinced that this relaunch of the defence Europe is fundamental to building as a fundamental pillar the great Europe of economic, social and political integration that we have been living for a few years. I believe that all Spaniards can legitimately boast of the role that Spain has always played in the common defence of Europeans, because, since our integration, Spain has collaborated and promoted political declarations, led operations and missions, participated in operations and missions of the European Union and contributed very significantly to the success of all of them. Therefore, Your Honor, from now on, through the notification, signature and support of the Pesco, the Permanent Structured Cooperation, Spain remains at the forefront in the defence of Europe, in the defence of our citizens, of Spanish citizens and of all European citizens; we increase our capacities and can share them with our Community partners. This is a collective achievement, ladies and gentlemen, it is an achievement of all that we have to assume as such, with the conviction that a Europe of defence was necessary at this time of European integration. We've been waiting a long time and it's finally been a reality. Jean Monnet said, paraphrasing the Schuman Declaration, that the Europe of Defense is concrete realization and de facto solidarity par excellence. Why? Because in this way we are contributing, after sixty years, to the Europeans being able to establish a system of protection between us and then collaborate in a broader system of protection to which we many belong, the Atlantic Alliance. Besides, I think it's very timely the moment you came, which is the moment of threats on the part of... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u65	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF FRANCESC XAVIER DOMENECH SAMPER, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO USE THE CATALIAN CRISIS AS EXCUSIVE TO PROMOTE A TERRITORIAL MODEL TO BE MORE CENTRALISED? [[File number 180/00450]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u66	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Don Francesc Xavier Domènech Sampere, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u67	Thank you very much, President. We are already in the fourth week of the suspension of Catalonia's self-government, a suspension that has entailed the cessation of 180 positions of the Government and the halting of the recruitment of 1500 teachers and the call for 2000 places of teachers, which were to overcome an era of absolutely unfair cuts. In turn, they have put the Foundation of the Christian School in charge of the affairs of the Concerted School of Catalonia. A technical intervention, a painless intervention or a new form of government? We believe that, indeed, it is a new form of government that seeks to punish and not help, that seeks revenge and not solutions. You, at the time of greatest political instability in Catalonia, signed a decree to encourage the march of Catalan companies; at the worst time for the situation in Catalonia, you did not provide security but created more instability. That's his policy. They are not the solution of anything, they are part of the problem, and their policy of exceptionality is not exhausted in Catalonia, they have also intervened the finances of the capital of Spain and threaten to do so in other cities, such as Cadiz, while applying another criterion in the cities where you govern. Isn't the capital of Spain the same as Jerez? Your equality policy is worth exactly the same as your entire policy: exactly nothing. In this regard, the question is: Does the Government intend to use the Catalan crisis as an excuse to promote an even more centralist territorial model?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u68	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Domènech, the government is comfortable with the current territorial model; we have defended it for decades and developed it at our government stage. The People's Party has governed much of the autonomous communities and cities of Spain and has worked from different levels of the Administration to improve precisely the self-government of many of them within the framework of the Constitution. We therefore confirm our commitment to the development of the state of autonomy, which is the model of our Constitution. You, Mr Domènech, are a political formation that I do not know where you are. [[Rumors]] They're sitting here, of course. You are confronted with a Constitution that considers a model exhausted and confronts a model of territorial policy, but when a commission is set up in this House expressly for this purpose you do not participate. You do not participate in any of the pacts that conform to the criteria in this House. You are some outsiders who are sometimes here and sometimes there. And in Catalonia, what exactly are they defending? Do you defend a Catalonia in Spain or do you understand that Spain can be conceived without Catalonia? That is what your political formation and you, as a candidate for the next autonomous elections, should respond very clearly in the minute that is left to you in this control session to the Government. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u70	Mr. Domènech, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u71	I think it is very clear where we are: we are in opposition to you and we are not at all collaborating with the worst government in Spain's history. I think it's very clear where we are. [[Applauds]] But where are you? You say they defend the territorial model, but we have seen how Mr Méndez de Vigo or Mrs De Cospedal have clearly said that it is in your mind to promote a regression of the autonomous system. For you 155, exceptionality is the norm, and you want it to be the norm of our future. Neither have you taken anything, but nothing, not a minute, to detract from the constitutional reform that you had agreed with the PSOE in exchange for support for 155. Your agreements with the PSOE are also worth exactly nothing. Not only do we not share his vision of Catalonia but we have a diametrically opposite vision of his centralist Spain, to which Catalans protest... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u72	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u73	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr Domènech, I have the impression that you do not share the vision - so far it is absolutely normal - is that you really have none, none. You don't have a bet for the state of autonomy, because you don't have it. You're the no, the one you're talking about that I don't agree with; in that you summarize your position and that's why you're also participating in an independentist demonstration in Catalonia... Or haven't you been in an independentist demonstration jumping your tears? Have you not been there, really shocked to defend that independence of Catalonia? [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] You guys have no judgment. You are a political formation that should be much more committed to the institutions, which for that you are present in this House, but... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u74	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED RODRIGUES ALBERTO RODRIGUES, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMAND TO THEM, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT, AND ALL THE BODIES OF THE SAME, CONTINUATE FERMAN AND MAINTAIN PUBLIC CONTRACTS WITH PRIOR SAFETY UNDERTAKINGS, NOT COMPLETE THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT OF THE SECTOR, OR HIS OBLIGATIONS WITH FARM AND SOCIAL SECURITY? [[File number 180/00452]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u75	He also asked the Minister of Finance and Public Service of Mr Alberto Rodríguez Rodríguez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u76	Good morning, Minister. Have the Government and all agencies dependent on the same plan to terminate or suspend public contracts with pirate security companies?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u77	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Public contracts have been concluded in accordance with the rules in force. These contracts require that we be aware of tax obligations and with Social Security, but it is true that during the duration of these contracts there have been undesirable situations, which has led to the dissolution of these contracts and that today we have in Spain - thanks to their support indeed; there they have been supporting - the new Law on Public Sector Contracts, a law that guarantees better than the previous one the social clauses, the labour clauses so that behind public procurement there is no abusive situation for workers who provide a public service and less when they provide a public service as important as that of security. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Rodriguez, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u80	Minister, you know that in the private security sector in our country there are about 80 000 workers and that for many years it has suffered the scourge of pirate companies - Security Integral Canaria, Marsegur, Synergies -, many of them in the hands of Miguel Ángel Ramírez, who is very, very close to former Minister Soria, but that is another song. [[Applauds]] These companies, although it seems impossible, go beyond labour reform, as they systematically fail to comply with the collective agreement and their obligations to the Treasury and Social Security, and there are multiple judgments, as you have said, that they do. But what is even worse and what I think is almost sadism, taking into account the public money they handle, is that on many occasions they don't even pay the wages to the workers and many of them have to go to humanitarian organizations to eat. All this happens because all the public administrations, all of them, sign contracts with these companies at a much lower price than initially offered, and this not only lowers the working conditions of the whole sector, but also affects the safety of any society. Ministries, defense facilities, transport - perhaps the metro of Madrid is the best known example - suffer a clear loss in their security due to the conditions of absolute precariousness in which workers carry out their work, and it is not necessary to remind them that we are on anti-terrorist alert 4. I know that it is difficult to act on contracts already signed and to control a scourge that extends to all levels and not just in your government, but we have examples and tools. For example, the Barcelona City Council this summer suspended a contract with Marsegur for lay-offs and, as you have said, we have the new Public Sector Contracts Act which, thanks to an amendment tabled by my group, includes in article 211, as a contract resolution clause, the non-payment during the execution of the contract of wages by the contractor to the workers who were participating in the contract. I know it's hard to act on these things but it's harder to work tomorrow, afternoon and night and see that you can't fill the fridge, pay bills or pay rent; it's harder to work and not pay the salary knowing there's public money behind. We'll fix it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u81	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rodríguez, I have already acknowledged that there have been undesirable situations for all, but there has also been the termination of those contracts. We now have a new law in force and we have an important agreement signed yesterday afternoon at a table between the Ministries of Development, Employment and Social Security and the Interior and trade unions and employers on the procurement of private security services. From the statement they made yesterday public - which I am sure your honor knows - I would like to read the paragraph that says: Therefore, it highlights the importance that must be given to the quality and assurance of adequate conditions for workers in the procurement of this type of services and, in this line, a series of commitments are assumed such as requiring companies to submit to the tender for appropriate solvency conditions, compliance with the applicable obligations in social or labour matters, not to award with a single criterion of award - but to open it to social and labour clauses - and others arising from the compliance with the provisions of the Public Sector Contracts Act. Indeed, we recognize that there have been mistakes, although we are on the road to resolving them, and therefore I ask you for the support of your political group, as you have done in the Law... [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN BALDOVI RODA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHY DOES IT NOT COMPLETE ARTICLES 156, 31, 40 AND 138 OF THE CONSTITUTION TO LET VALENTIANS AND VALENTIANS HAVE EDUCATION, HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES IN CONSOLIDATION WITH THE CONSOLIDATION OF ARTICLE 14 OF THE CONSTITUTION? [[File number 180/00448]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u83	He also asked the minister of Mr Joan Baldoví Roda of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u84	Mr. Montoro, I remind you of some articles of the Constitution. Article 14, equality of law regardless of place of birth. Article 156, financial autonomy of the autonomous communities to provide basic public services. Article 31, equity in the distribution of funds in public services. Article 40, equitable distribution of regional income. Article 138, the State guarantees compliance with the principle of solidarity between the territories. Article 139, all Spaniards have the same rights and duties in any part of the State. Official data from his own ministry concerning the Valencian Community. Per capita income, more than 11 points below average; we are a poor autonomous community. Data from the Airef, the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority: public expenditure in the Valencian Community is below the average; there are 13 billion missing per year to provide the basic services - it is its data -; financing per capita, 200 euros below the average, 728 euros compared to the community of better financed common system and more than 2500 euros compared to some outside community; three years late to approve the financing system - three years, three - and in its General State Budgets always below our specific weight both in population and in contribution to GDP. Questions: What would you call the one who violates the Constitution? When do you intend to comply with the Constitution in the Valencian Autonomous Community as thousands of citizens of all ideologies asked on Saturday? Look, they were not independenceists, they were not extremists and they were not radicals; there were employers, trade unions, the Chamber of Commerce, the Gremial Union, universities and students; they were, as it were, from Citizens to Compromises. Only one was missing, like at the party, only you were missing. Do you firmly believe that I only come up here to cry or complain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Baldoví, I would certainly appreciate it if, in addition to complaining, you would make positive contributions someday, but I am waiting for it and I will continue to wait for it. [[applause.- Mr. Baldoví Roda claps with both hands on the cheeks]] Where were we when others were on the street? We were working for a new autonomous funding in Spain. By the way, the President of the Valencian Community had been in my office for a few days at his request, after having been with the President of the Government, and had left that meeting saying that he appreciated the Government's willingness to carry out a modernization of autonomous financing for all of Spain, but with particular impact on the Valencian Community. Or wasn't that the result of that meeting? What is the point of meetings, calls and exchange of views, ideas and criteria between governments? By the way, next Friday is the deadline for administrations to provide their views on expert analysis in the Technical Committee of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. So, we're working, we're working. What you have to ask yourself is Commitment, but you have to ask it sincerely, is whether you are going to accept the result of a job that cannot be done by the Spanish Government alone, and we are saying so. We need the Socialist Party, we need the governments of the Socialist Party that govern seven autonomous communities. And to you, Mr Baldoví, who also govern, who are a party of government in the Valencian Community, I have to tell you that it is time to make proposals and not to make complaints about previous situations. Indeed, they have occurred, but stop crying over spilled milk and let's see if we are able to build among all - it has to be among all - an autonomous financing system that ensures that all citizens, regardless of where they live, have access to basic public services under the same conditions. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u86	Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u87	Mr Montoro, you work very fast on some things - so tomorrow we will approve the Basque quota - and very slow on others. We've been three years...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u88	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u89	Thank you. The working rhythms of a minority government are marked by the whole House. [[Applauds]] If you don't, you'll tell me what the point is to bring in laws that aren't going to be passed. And since you have that privilege of... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DAVID SERRATED PARENT, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT EXPLAIN FALLES IN THE SAFETY OF DIGITAL CERTIFICATES IN THE DNIE? [[File number 180/00462]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u91	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. He asked, first of all, Mr David Serrada Pariente, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u92	Minister, a few days ago a Czech university alerted us to a possible security hole in the electronic DNI that could affect the security and data of millions of Spaniards, personal data and data that have to do with work and tax. How do you explain those security failures? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u93	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to convey a message of tranquillity to the House and to society. According to the reports at my disposal, no security flaws have been detected in the chips, but it is true, as you said very well when you asked your question, that after becoming known through a study of a university in the Czech Republic that the software of electronic DNI chips had some vulnerability, the National Cryptological Center immediately started a review process with a dual reason: firstly, to analyze the scope of the chips and, secondly, to see what impact they could have on security, as you were very well interested in. The company that has manufactured the chips is number one worldwide for its reputation, apart from having all the certificates in its possession. I can assure you, Your Honor, that since we were aware that there could be some kind of alteration we have put our hands to the work and at the same time I assure you that there is no record that there has already been any attack in Spain or that security has suffered any damage under this circumstance. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Serrada.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u96	Mr. Zoido, once again try to minimize the problems that affect your ministry and I will tell you two things. Your ministry is the house of government troubles because you inherit and create problems. I'm going to tell you what the problem has been. It has created a very serious problem for our democracy, which is putting us at the international point of view, which is what is happening in Archidona. Furthermore, what you are doing right now is trying to provide security about a problem that has been affecting electronic DNI for five years, Mr Zoido, five years. I'll tell you what your predecessor said, this one that leaves you gifts on the table, in the DNI presentation. The aim of the DNI is to make Spain a safer country. The new DNI improves an important aspect of citizen tranquility, such as documentary security. Can you, Mr. Zoido, today maintain these assertions made by your predecessor? And I'm gonna tell you something else. You've appealed to the National Cryptological Center. Indeed, he gave an answer. And what answer will you give? An encrypted answer, Mr. Zoido. He gave an answer that no one understood: neither yes nor no or the opposite. You have started to do something now, when a Czech university has told you that you have a problem that affects 12 million Spaniards. I am not saying that, but your Honorary Commissioner, Mr Marhuenda. Mr Marhuenda says it affects more than 12 million people. Mr. Zoido, you've been using electronic DNI to generate a security problem for five years. You've wasted money on a safe door not for the citizen, but on a safe door for hackers. Five years, 12 million people, Mr. Zoido. Do something now, demand responsibilities, and in responsibilities I remind you that your ministry has the record of people reprobated by this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u97	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u98	Thank you, President. I have to say, first of all, that despite the skills you have logically had to use, on the one hand, to generate alarm, and on the other, to mix some things with others, I will tell you as to the national identity documents that do not affect from the moment they began to be made, but since 2014, therefore it affects only three years. But what I'm going to tell you is all that works in my power and I can assure you, because as you will understand I don't have to - nor is it my way - lie. No security flaws have been detected, there have been no security breaches, Agamenón says so or your scumbag says it. There is no danger whatsoever, simply after the report of the University of the Czech Republic, and in order to eliminate any possible fault or suspicion, certificates corresponding to electronic DNI 3.0 have been revoked. We are facing a theoretical problem and not a real problem, and we are making all the necessary checks by the National Cryptological Centre. In short, Your Honor, we have acted immediately, we have told society, and we have done so immediately once we have been warned of the problem... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT PROVIDED TO GUARANTEE THE DignITY OF NATIONAL POLICE AND CIVIL GUARDIA IN THE FRAMEWORK OF COVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00456]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u100	He also asked the Minister of the Interior of Mr Miguel Ángel Gutiérrez Vivas of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, last week you announced to us at the end of the stay of the civil guards and national police in the 'Piolin', what you did not tell us is that two days later you were going to put them on another boat, the Azzurra. Minister, instead of being a minister, you really seem like a merchant of a shipowner, because you're going to make famous all the ships of that shipowner in the mouth of all the Spaniards. I really wonder if there was no other place, really in low season in Catalonia is there no other place to put the civilian guards and the national police? No hotel establishments? Because I honestly find it very difficult to understand that you are not able to manage hotel establishments so that our civilian guards and our national police can work and rest with dignity. Minister, it has been sixty-three days, sixty-three days already in operation, sixty-three days when dignity is not only - as we have mentioned - that they are well housed and that they can eat and have adequate maintenance, but it is not possible - and many Spaniards do not know - that they are financing the State. The civilian guards and the police have to advance the diets, they have to advance their stays in the hotels, minister. [[The Minister of the Interior, Zoido Alvarez, makes negative gestures]] Yeah, that's right, they have to advance the diets. Do you really think they have to advance and finance the state? Is Mr. Montoro really not able to give you enough credit so that our civilian guards and our police officers do not have to finance the state? Because this seems indecent to us in a place where the National Police and the Civil Guard have the lowest wages in Europe. Minister, the other day you had 60 000 people on the street demanding equal pay. I ask you, Minister, when are you going to get to work to resolve that our civilian guards and our police officers can work with dignity? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u102	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Gutiérrez, I don't know where you get that the civilian guards and the police have to pay the accommodation, when it is done by the Ministry of the Interior, or advance the subsistence allowance, which is also paid by the Ministry of the Interior. [[Mr Gutiérrez Vivas makes negative gestures]] And he also pays for his maintenance. Mr Gutiérrez, it is the second time that you have asked me this question, and I am glad that you are interested in the Civil Guard and the National Police, but you are aware - you know it perfectly well, because I have told you on numerous occasions - that the Government of Spain is very attentive to the Civil Guard and the National Police, because we have the highest consideration for these bodies, and because it is also our own responsibility. You know that we have done everything in our hand to make them in the best conditions, and when there has been a problem we have acted immediately. I would like to thank you for your interest in this, but I repeat to you, Mr Gutiérrez - I have also told you on another occasion - that it is worth a gram to make than a kilo to say. Do not worry or suffer for the dignity of police and civilian guards, because they know how to guarantee themselves with their own professionalism, vocation and commitment to society. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u104	Mr. Gutiérrez Vivas.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u105	Thank you. Minister, there are police officers who have advanced more than 3000 euros, they are resorting to their families to be able to advance payments and allowances that never arrive. You make many commitments, you say many words, but at the time of truth you never commit, it happened the same with the issue of wage equality. You told us that this was going to be done, that they were going to carry it out in this exercise, but you never commit. I'm gonna help you see what it's like to do, like you told me. Since you are not capable, we will negotiate this salary equalisation with Mr Montoro, we will negotiate it for the good of all police and civilian guards; we will negotiate 500 million for three years to cover the 1.5 million wage equalisation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u106	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u107	Thank you very much. The other day I also had the opportunity to say, Mr Gutiérrez, that since 1989 wage equality has been being claimed, and the Government of the People's Party, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, has had to come to ask for approval in the 2018 budgets and for the first time let's start talking about wage equality. [[Rumors.-Laughter.-Applause.]] Mr Gutiérrez, I insist, it is better a gram to make than a kilo to say and do nothing. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u108	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u109	As far as accommodation is concerned, I have been explaining on several occasions the difficulty I had with the device itself that had to be deployed. Therefore we have used hotels, barracks and boats, and have tried to give them the best of conditions. I didn't presume that they were leaving the 'Piolin', but I did say that the 'Piolin' was leaving, because it was a real reality. [[Laughter]] Moreover since 155 has sought, and in fact has achieved, the return to normality are in more hotels, because they have offered us more, something that had not previously happened. Relief for rest is taking place, and at the same time the Government is taking all legal measures to ensure that those who have threatened or disrespected pay for it. That's why a hundred and fifty complaints have already been filed and tomorrow the mayor of Reus and the spokespersons of the groups... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm sorry. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. - OF THE HOUSE OF CLAVELL'S HOUSE LÓPEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER FOR EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF FINANCING TO THE AUTONOMIC COMMUNITIES FOR THE IMPLAINTATION OF THE INSTITUTIONS IN THAT AND THE BASIC VOCATIONAL TRAINING? [[File number 180/00464]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u111	Question by Mr Óscar Clavell López, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. First, taking this opportunity, I would like to publicly denounce the use of education as a political weapon for the partisan interest of the different political groups that govern the Valencian Community today, either through the decree of linguistic blackmail or with the indoctrination used in the classrooms in favor of pan-Catalanism and independence, among other issues. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]] Having said that, Minister, and on the subject, several courses have already passed since the implementation of the itineraries in compulsory secondary education and basic vocational training, a project that has been taken to shit thanks to the funding agreed between the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities, as an example that with agreement and loyalty results are achieved in education, and on all matters that matter to the well-being and future of citizens and society as a whole. An example of the Government's effort to raise funds from the European Social Fund for this purpose, which has led to a reduction in the school drop-out rate and an increase in employability. Similarly, Minister, in the People's Parliamentary Group we insist on the need for the political and social pact for education to continue to make progress in this area. So, Minister, what does the Government do about financing the autonomous communities for the implementation of the itineraries in compulsory secondary education and basic vocational training? Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u113	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The Government welcomes the adoption by the Council of Ministers on 11 November of two decrees allocating a total of EUR 321 million to the Autonomous Communities for the financing of the implementation of new compulsory secondary education routes, both in academic and applied education, as well as for the implementation of new basic vocational training cycles. These 321 million are in addition to the 453 million that since 2014 have been transferred to the Autonomous Communities, making a total of 774 million in the last four years. These 774 million - which you have stressed and I think it is right to do - have been distributed in agreement with the Autonomous Communities - as agreed at the sectoral conference - and therefore it is an agreement that shows how cooperation between the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities works. 173 million are intended to finance the new training routes for compulsory secondary education and some very similar percentage goes to basic vocational training, which today has 71,000 pupils, and which is also an instrument to put an end to the scourge of the Spanish education system, which was early abandonment. So I like not to talk about spending on education, but about investing in education. These 321 million will contribute to improving the training of our young people in order to offer quality training alternatives that promote their employability and enable them to develop optimal personal and professional development. As you have said - I would like to stress this - all this amount, this very important amount for the improvement of the quality of our education system, a very important part, 63%, comes from the structural funds of the European Union, in particular the European Social Fund, a good example of how Europe helps Spain to be one of the most avant-garde countries in this area as well. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u115	Thank you very much. - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARÍA CHIQUILLO BARBER, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: HOW THE GOVERNMENT VALUES THE ELECTION OF SPAIN AS A NEW MEMBER OF THE COMMITTEE UNESCO WORLD PATRIMONY? [[File number 180/00465]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u116	Question by Mr José María Chiquillo Barber, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u117	Thank you, President. Minister, last November 14, in the General Assembly of the UNESCO World Heritage Convention, held in Paris, Spain was elected as a new member of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee for the next four years. Our candidacy obtained the highest number of votes, 157 out of 170 participating countries, undoubtedly a great success and support of the good doing of Spain in the management, protection and preservation of the historical artistic heritage. Spain will be a member of the twenty-one-member committee entrusted with the task of examining the conservation status of the sites on the heritage list, deciding on new registrations and the responsibility to implement and ensure the 1972 Convention on the Protection of the World Heritage. Spain, which ratified the convention in 1982, has twice been a member of that committee. Now, in 2017, they have elected us for the third time. In that election of Spain I am convinced that the international community has valued our position of leadership in the world, with forty-six registered goods - only behind China and Italy -; our experience in the management of heritage, both at the national level and for the extensive work and experience in the international preservation of goods, through the Heritage for Development Programme, which has meant intervention since 1988 in hundreds of international cooperation projects. But above all the commitment of the international community for Spain is endorsed by the excellent professionals, technicians in rehabilitation, restoration and conservation that our country has. That is why I ask you, Minister, how the Spanish Government appreciates the opportunity, the challenge that it means for us to have been elected a new member of the World Heritage Committee for the next four years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u118	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u119	Madam President, Your Honor, Spain feels very comfortable in Unesco. For many years a compatriot of ours, Don Federico Mayor, was his secretary general; we will fire Mrs. Bokova, to whom we have granted the Grand Cross of Alfonso X the Wise for his contributions, and Spain has participated very actively in the election of the new director general, Mrs. Zulay. And it is true that since 1982 this is the third time that we are part of this very important World Heritage Committee, and it shows that our technicians are up to it, it shows the interest we have in Spain in that committee. It is therefore no accident, nor is it the case that Spain is now on the United Nations Human Rights Committee. It means that Spain's weight on the international scene counts. It is true - you have remembered - that Spain is one of the countries that has more monuments included in the catalog of Unesco, we are the third country, behind China and Italy, and we have recently incorporated three more: the Codex Calixtino, the Archivio Ramón y Cajal and the Archivio de Simancas. In this interest that Spain has to highlight its historical and artistic heritage - the other day I answered a question from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, telling him that the brand Spain should also be oriented towards the cultural aspects, giving greater relevance to the cultural aspects within the brand Spain - the news to which you refer is good news. We continue to work not only at the multilateral level, but also at the bilateral level. Yesterday I was at the Council of Culture Ministers in Brussels and I had the opportunity to sign a partnership agreement on heritage, museums and libraries with the French Minister. I therefore believe that we are experiencing a good time for culture in Spain. We are seeing it in all the indicators, people are increasingly consuming more culture, enjoying more culture, and I think that is something that we should all welcome in this House. Thank you very much for your question, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u120	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON JUAN ANTONIO LÓPEZ DE URALDE GARMENDIA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMONLY POSSIBLE IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WHY DIDN'T RAJOY ACHIEVE THE RECENT BONN CUMBER AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE? [[COP23]] [[File number 180/00453]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u121	She is now asking the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. Question by Mr Juan Antonio López de Uralde Garmendia, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u122	Thank you, President. In a context of increasing impacts on climate change and with global emissions growth data in 2017 of 2%, the Climate Change Summit was held last week in Bonn. Some world leaders, such as Merkel or Macron, came to that summit, and others preferred not to come, such as Donald Trump or Rajoy himself. The question we ask ourselves is why Rajoy was not at the Summit against Climate Change.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u123	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u124	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I appreciate your question. It allows me to reaffirm in this House this Government's commitment to combating climate change. Spain - not the Government, Spain, but driven by the Government - has been very present at the Bonn summit. We have been represented by a broad delegation, headed by this minister, who has participated actively in dialogue tables, negotiating groups, thematic events and bilateral meetings, a technical summit, whose host was Germany, where we have arrived with the duties fulfilled. The European Union has reduced its emissions by 23% compared to 1990, while GDP grew by 52%, but Spain reduced its emissions in 2016 by 3.5% compared to 2015, with a growth of 3.2%. Europe is the largest donor of public funding, 20 billion in 2016, of which Spain also participates significantly, with almost 600 million euros last year. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. López de Uralde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u126	Minister, you haven't answered my question. Nor did he expect much, because in fact Rajoy was neither present nor expected at the Bonn summit, among other things because his trajectory in climate change is well known: he has gone from negationism, advised by his cousin, to absolute passivity at the present time. There is nothing more to see than the reduction in our country's climate change budgets. But Spain is a victim of climate change. We are suffering intense heat waves, rising temperatures, summers are getting longer, the number of large forest fires is increasing and we are immersed in a drought of consequences that will be increasing in economic and social matters. In that context we are aware that it is only possible to fight climate change through a global agreement, and there are some leaders who have decided to be there in the front row driving that global agreement. It would be good for a victim country like ours to be on the front line, but unfortunately it is not; we are going with lead to do what the European Union imposes on us. Madam Minister, our country's emissions data are unfortunately not so good. Emissions grew unhindered until 2007, and began to fall from 2007 precisely as a result of the renewable energy drive policies that you have dismantled over the years. That's why from 2014 the situation is radically changing and emissions are starting to rise again. In 2016 Eurostat data are different from what you propose; Eurostat talks about 1.6% increase in emissions compared to 0.4% reduction in emissions from the European Union. In short, stop selling smoke, please, and get to work... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u127	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u128	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I remind you that it was our Government, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, which in 2012 brought Spain out of non-compliance with climate change. Your Honor, Spain has been and is very present not only in the Bonn Conference of the Parties, but in the whole fight against climate change, and more than ever thanks to this Government. Spain is present in the fulfilment of the mitigation objectives, we take Spain out of non-compliance, I insist. And as for the pre-2020 ambition we go beyond the objectives, we are 10% ahead of our obligations, and certainly far ahead of countries such as France and Germany. Spain is present in adaptation thanks to the government's impulse - more than 34 million euros in the last budgets -; Spain is present in financing - almost 600 million euros in the year 2016- climate of developing countries; Spain is present in coordination, assistance and transfer of technology, knowledge. We are maintaining political momentum within the framework of the Ibero-American Network of Climate Change Offices, where we lead an important Ibero-American ministerial declaration in support of the Paris Agreement, and we are in the United Nations Development Support Programme. We have participated in its launch, we are one of the main contributors with 700,000 euros in 2017. Spain is present with a negotiating team of the internationally recognized ministry, and Spain is present in the mobilization of the private sector and civil society. We are with the Global Climate Action Agenda, now with the Spanish Climate Action Platform... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u129	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN LIDIA GUINART MORENO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK BEFORE THE STANDARDIZATION OF GENERAL VIOLENCE, SPECIALLY BETWEEN YOUTH? [[File number 180/00460]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u130	Questions now addressed to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by Mrs Lidia Guinart Moreno from the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u131	What does the Government intend to do about the normalization of gender-based violence, especially among youth?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u132	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u133	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the best way to end the macho violence is to prevent it from arising, and this can be achieved by taking care of the social and educational environment in which our children and children develop. That is why we in this Government are very clear that the education of young people and the need to provide them with an adequate environment for their development is essential in order to break the cycle of violence and discrimination. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u134	Thank you. Mrs. Guinart.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u135	Minister, we have a serious problem because gender-based violence is not only a scourge in today's society, but will continue to be a scourge in future society if we do not remedy it, if we do not educate and raise awareness of our youth, because one in three young people see it as absolutely normal. The first measures contained in the State Covenant on Gender Violence are effectively related to education and compliance with article 4 of the 2004 Act, which is still in force. You have been cutting and cutting in education for years, and those boys and girls who normalize gender-based violence have not had the opportunity to take the subject of Education for Citizenship, which you have by the way suppressed. Campaigns, awareness-raising and prevention campaigns, which do so, must also be carried out effectively, but not always fortunately, because they cannot single out mothers as responsible for the education of their children, or blame alcohol for raping a girl. And that's what they've done in recent campaigns. Minister, something very important is how the media tackle male-based violence, and we cannot continue to have male-based programmes on public television. Do you think suitable programs like - the luck already suspended - How do you see, inviting sexist characters like Salvador Sostres to comment on sexual harassment? Or as a peak hour, in which women are sewn up and displayed as a claim to girls in bodi as if they were'macho'? Please distil them now and implement all those measures which the Socialist Group has brought to the state pact on this subject, such as the Observatory for Equal Spanish Radio Television. Moreover, they are proposals that do not, in their vast majority, require a budget increase or a special agreement or consensus. There are no vetoes here. So, what are you waiting for? Machismo is a disease of social transmission and its vaccine is in education. This sentence is from the president of women judges, Gloria Poyatos, and she says it all. Please vaccunate children and young people with more and better education, because tomorrow will be too late. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u136	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u137	Thank you, President. Your Honor, youth is the driving force of tolerance and overcoming. Young people and young people can end social and cultural prejudices, from which the germ of violence against women can be born. That is why young people's contribution to combating gender-based violence is very important, because it is they who can also root it out in the first decades of life. The Government is therefore working on three pillars: to strengthen prevention, the identification of any signs of violence and awareness among adolescents, first, by strengthening prevention in classrooms by placing gender-based violence alongside equality as a principle of the education system for the first time, and to include it in cross-cutting subjects from the earliest ages. Also in this same axis the prevention of violence in sport. Second important axis, reinforcing prevention on social networks, with the launch of a specific section for adolescents in the Free app, an app for mobile phone that helps to detect the first signs of abuse and informs about available resources. The third axis is to lead awareness campaigns aimed specifically at young people, explaining the first signs of a toxic and violent relationship, such as controlling their passwords and friends on social networks. In addition, in 2015 we passed the two laws amending the system of protection for children and adolescents, which marked an important improvement in the system of protection for children and adolescents. So many of the measures that you have commented on today, and with which I fully agree, are already introduced into the state pact. Therefore, the Government of Spain has already said that it is committed to the State Pact and to the fulfilment of the State Pact and, more importantly, to the commitment of a budget for the fight against gender-based violence. That is why the Government is going to comply with this state pact, which is going to be beneficial to our children and adolescents. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u138	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED SONIA FERRER TESOR, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT DOING FRONT OF THE DRAMATICAL SITUATION OF VIOLENCE ON WOMEN? [[File number 180/00461]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u139	Question also to Mrs Sonia Ferrer Tesoro, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what is the Government doing in the face of the dramatic situation of violence against minors?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u141	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u142	Thank you, President. Your Honor, minors, as I said in the previous question, are our future and it is our obligation to ensure that all powers - executive, legislative and judicial -, all families, teachers, trainers, healthcare professionals, neighbors and even anonymous viewers of a situation of violence or ill-treatment act and denounce. The Government is working to strengthen our comprehensive system for the prevention and protection of violence against children, as we did with the 2015 children's laws. We do so with a view to a great common social and political commitment in which we all unite to reject violence against children, as we have done against violence against women. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ferrer.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u144	Minister, I don't know if you're aware of this reality. One out of every 100 Spanish children suffers from some kind of abuse in the family, twenty-three have been killed by gender-based violence, eight of them this year, an unknown figure, and last year 27 100 children were victims of crimes involving some kind of violence. If everything you say was like this, why are these figures? Of course, they are intolerable figures that do not reflect the real size of the problem, they show only a small part, but even that small part is serious enough to say so far, it's over, it's an unsustainable situation. From the Socialist Group we ask you three things. First of all, a comprehensive law against violence in children; a law on which we have long been told that they are working but that we are very much afraid that it has not passed a draft; a law that is not born with a tara, such as the Children's Act of 2015, which in its own article said that it could not increase public spending, a law that is not effective. But only the laws are not enough. Secondly, there is also a need for a comprehensive strategy to combat violence in children with prevention, intervention, detection and restoration measures. Thirdly, it is important to raise the awareness of society of a total rejection of violence against minors. Awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns are needed. Zero tolerance. None of this has been fulfilled, Minister, since they are in the government. That is, lack of law, lack of planning, lack of resources and lack of awareness. The subject of minors is usually a subject of high consensus - we all agree - but of low intensity. Those of you who have the responsibility to govern, you, are not doing it. For our part, we extend our hand and pledge to contribute our experience, while demanding effectiveness, will and real commitments. In addition to being a legal mandate, Mrs Montserrat, it is a moral mandate and, as Antonio Tabucchi said, it is being done more and more later. There are girls and boys at risk. Take action now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u146	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the protection of our minors is fundamental and our legal system has been strengthened since the last legislature. The children's laws adopted in 2015 made significant progress in the legal protection of children. For the first time, the children of women victims of gender-based violence were recognized as victims, recognizing the same rights as their mothers. The obligation of judges to rule on the necessary protective measures in the case of children of abused women was also established. In addition, the Unified Register of Child Abuse and the Central Registry of Sexual Offenders were established to better protect children from these crimes and the penalty of permanent imprisonment for the murder of children under the age of sixteen years or vulnerable persons was promoted. Since the first minute of this legislature, we have continued to strengthen our legal system to protect our children and the State Pact against Gender Violence has included a specific axis, which is to review the measures relating to the custody of the children of women victims of gender-based violence, as well as the specialization of family meeting points for cases related to gender-based violence. At present, we are working, together with the university and the third sector, on the development of a comprehensive protection law against violence against the family, which responds to all forms of violence against children and strengthens our system of prevention, detection and early intervention. Also, I want to explain that, thanks to the help phone for children and adolescents that from the Ministry of Health, in collaboration with the ANAR Foundation, we have launched, children and adolescents have a safe and confidential space where they feel heard and... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u147	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMEN OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW HAS THE MOTIONS APPROVED FOR THE MINISTRY APPROVED BY THIS CAMERA TO RESPONSE THE NEEDS OF THOUSANDS OF SPAIN FAMILY? [[File number 180/00455]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u148	She also asked the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality of Mrs Patricia Reyes Rivera of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u149	Thank you, President. Minister, this House has passed various motions that will improve the lives of families, but above all they will improve the lives of many children. I quote two: the release of adoptions and the law of shared custody. When will the government meet this parliamentary mandate? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u150	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u151	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this government works decisively for the well-being of Spanish families. The family, which each chooses, is the main pillar of our society and, of course, we will continue to work in this line to continue to protect the families, each of their members and especially the most vulnerable, just as we committed ourselves to Citizens in the investment agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Reyes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u153	Minister, adoptions are coming a long way. More than two years ago - I repeat, more than two years ago - you should have put in place a regulation that unlocks adoptions and, although you now cover your response with floriculture, the raw reality, the bitter reality is that, today, in Spain, it is impossible to adopt. There are thousands of potential mothers and fathers waiting, who have been waiting for many years, and many have thrown the towel because they have already passed the rice, because they no longer meet the age requirements. I think there are only two possibilities, and I say it clearly: either you are inept or, worse, it gives you exactly the same. We are the shame of Europe, the country that, by the way, has more children in orphanages. It seems that you like living in the 19th century - Mr Montoro quoted it the other day talking about the Basque quota -. We don't live in the 19th century. It's not orphanage time. Dickens' time has long passed. Children have the right to have a family. We have almost sixteen thousand children in foster care, innocent children to whom you are taking a future. And what about that shared custody law? Is it complicated, too? Is this a mess? I think it is very easy, because the Supreme Court has already done much of the work with its judgment. Get started at once, we demand it from here, and above all take into account the different family models that exist today: there are married couples, unmarried couples; single parents; homoparent families; biological children; adopted children; children who come to this world thanks to assisted reproduction techniques. I know it costs them, but it is necessary: they assume once we are in the 21st century. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u154	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u155	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you and I have discussed in this plenary on the regulation of international adoptions and also on shared custody and custody. As regards the first item, the rules of procedure for international adoptions, it will be adopted as soon as possible, before, yes, submission of all the mandatory reports and of the Council of State, and I can tell you that the public information procedure will begin tomorrow. Therefore, after the mandatory reports and the Council of State, we will have planned for the first quarter of next year. With regard to the reform of shared custody, it is true that it is an agreement between the People's Group and the Citizens' Group, but I would like to say that it is an important reform, with a great impact on families and their children, where the greatest consensus is really needed. If the law is brought here, it is probably only voted for by the People's and Citizens' Party, and with that it is not approved. This law needs the majority of the House to pass it, because it has a direct impact on families and their children, and therefore you and we have to work to achieve the consensus of the majority of the House. I encourage you, Mrs Reyes, together with the People's Party, to seek an instrument in this House to work towards maximum consensus. A law that has such a brutal impact cannot come out of this House approved with half plus one, because in the end we would be generating a society divided into two. We believe, like you, that the most important thing is the doctrine of the Supreme Court, where the interest and protection of the child is perfectly indicated. We agree on this and I am very convinced that we can reach an agreement with the whole House to protect the best interests of the child, but, yes, you and the People's Group must seek the maximum consensus of this House because, if not, we will bring a law that is not really going to be passed. We cannot do electoralism by saying that shared custody is defended when we may bring it to the House and it is not approved. As the Government of Spain, from my responsibility, we must seek maximum consensus in order to benefit minors and to be able to approve what comes to this House with maximum consensus. This is my commitment and I therefore make myself available to both groups to achieve maximum consensus. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u156	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u157	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the questions addressed to the Government. Firstly, urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano, on the democratic crisis of the functioning of justice in Spain. For your defence, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, there is no doubt that... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u159	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u160	... There is a crisis of confidence in the functioning of justice in Spain. I will give you a telegraph of seven different points: a report by Greco last year criticizing the Spanish State for failing to comply with its recommendations; a report by the European Commission on the situation of justice in the European Union, which places the Spanish State as the third State of the European Union in a worse perception of judicial independence; or a report by the World Economic Forum of October this year, where it places the degree of State independence at the level of some African or Asian countries. There is no doubt that some parliamentary groups in this House are proposing that in the appointment of the new State Attorney General there should be greater involvement of Parliament and that it should not simply be an appointment of the Government. The reform of the Constitutional Court Act at the end of the previous legislature, in which it had been given an improper executive capacity by an organ, such as the Constitutional Court, which in no case should form part of the judicial architecture and whose function was to guarantee the interpretation of the Constitution, had been highly criticized. There can be no doubt that there is a crisis in the Spanish justice system when the State's late Attorney General has been repudiated by this House or yourself as Minister of Justice. There can be no doubt that there is a crisis in the justice system in Spain when there was a conflict of undue access to the Lexnet platform by which more than four hundred documents were improperly downloaded, or when in this House a previous minister, the Interior minister, Mr Fernández Díaz, was repudiated because he said that he was fined files with the prosecution, or when prosecutors change their opinion in a few days on the same case, on the same criminal type: in the case of President Mas on 9-N in twenty-one days the prosecution changed its opinion; in the case of Sanz, in twelve days, and in the case of Púnica, in ten days. But when I talk to him about a crisis of confidence in the constitutional system, I also talk to him about a crisis of confidence in how the Government interprets the Constitution and how it applies some articles of the Constitution. In particular, I would like to refer to the application of Article 155, because clearly Royal Decree 946 of 27 October, which calls for elections to the Parliament of Catalonia and therefore its dissolution, is outside the material scope of Article 155. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Group of the Democratic Party, together with the Group of the Republican Left, called for the President of the Government to appear before this House to report on the application of Article 155 in an exceptional and extraordinarily serious case. The government has rejected the appearance before the Congress of Deputies and today we know that only a secretary of state wants to appear before the Senate to report on the intervention of the Catalonian self-government and no minister. This is absolutely unacceptable and explains how the Government is entering this article, to this unprecedented moment, which is 155. Was the dissolution of the Catalan Government and the Parliament within the powers and capacities of the Government? Clearly not. We will link article 155 with article 152 of the Spanish Constitution and also with some articles of the statute of autonomy. Article 152 provides that the statutes approved by the courts shall provide that the autonomous communities shall have a legislative assembly elected by universal suffrage, a governing council and a president elected by an assembly of its members and appointed by the king. I think it is relevant to retain the literality of Article 152, as it is also good to retain Article 23.2 of the Spanish Constitution, which states that citizens have the right to equal access to public functions and positions, i.e. active universal suffrage and the right to political participation. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia is an organic law, the Organic Law 6/2006, and that it has a very unique feature contemplated in the mechanisms of approval of a statute by the constitutional mechanisms, which is the pact between the Parliament of Catalonia, the General Courts, the voting of the text by Congress and the Senate, and the subsequent referendum by the citizens of Catalonia. Well, this status of autonomy voted in the Parliament of Catalonia, validated in the Congress, validated in the Senate and endorsed by the citizens of Catalonia includes in its article 75 the causes of dissolution of the Parliament. And the causes of Parliament's dissolution are exclusively: the end of the four-year term of office or the dissolution advanced by the President of the Generalitat. Only these are the cases, also voted by these General Courts, which contemplate the dissolution of Parliament. And Article 67.3 of the same statute provides for cases of dissolution in the event of a failed, point and final investiture with regard to the possibility of dissolution of the Parliament. We therefore have a President of the Generalitat who has ceased without legal basis, a Government who has ceased without legal basis, a Parliament which has dissolved without legal basis. And the activation of article 155, with its overflowing and overflowing interpretation, what ends up provoking is breaking and violating the principle of political autonomy, breaking the principle of the right to autonomy enshrined in article 2 of the Spanish Constitution. Look, the use of Article 155 to dissolve the Parliament of Catalonia, to dissolve the Government and call for advanced elections in Catalonia is a unilateral act of repealing the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy by a decree of the Government without any legal coverage and outside the material scope of Article 155. Because if the statute was agreed between Parliament and the Courts, if the statute was endorsed and if the statute provides for the only cases of dissolution of Parliament and Article 155 does not cover these cases and it was not the will of the constituent - and I will prove it shortly - it is clearly out of the competence of the Government what it did with the actual decree calling for these elections. Crisis, therefore, of legality, and, in passing, also of legitimacy, because in the Senate, with less than 30% of the votes, the majority group has an absolute majority. This is the electoral system that we have acquired with regard to the election of senators. And another outstanding element, relevant in political science, among those who listen to us: no elected senator in the last elections of 26 June 2016 in the four Catalan provinces, in the four Catalan demarcations, voted in favour of the application of Article 155. I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, that clearly the will of the constituent was not to give the Government the power to dissolve the Parliament of Catalonia or to dissolve the Government of Catalonia. And in the debate of the constituents up to three times the possibility was put to the vote in the constitutional debate that the Parliament, the Legislative Assembly and the Government could be dissolved, and up to three times this option was rejected. The first time it was on the occasion of the special vote reserved by the People's Alliance Group, defended from this rostrum by Don Manuel Fraga, the founding president of the People's Party, regarding the preliminary draft Constitution, which established the power of the State Government to intervene in a region, and was able to suspend its organs and appoint a governor general. This amendment, this particular vote, to be more precise, by Mr Manuel Fraga was rejected by this House. The second time was already in relation to the text of the preliminary draft of the Constitution, when the UCD Group - with the signature of several honourable Members, the first of which was Mr Ortí Bordás - also proposed that the king, on the proposal of the President of the Government, after deliberation of the Council of Ministers and after consultation with the presidents of the Congress and the Senate, may order the dissolution of the Regional Assembly. This amendment was also voted against. And for the third time, also in the parliamentary procedure, the UCD Group, through Mr Alberto Ballarín and other Members, proposed that regional bodies could be dissolved if the measures taken were not complied with. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the will of the constituent, that the debate of the constituent gives conclusive arguments to argue that Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution does not allow the dissolution of the Parliament of an autonomous community. Those European constitutions which do provide for it, expressly provide for it in their articles. This is the case in the Austrian Constitution - Article 100 - Italy - Article 126 - and Portugal - Article 236. [[The Lord]] And finally, in the last minute of my initial intervention - after which we will have more time to discuss this - I have to say that Professors Eduardo García de Enterria, Professor Jesús García Torres and Professor José María Gil Robles clearly have doctrine that defend that under no circumstances is it possible to dissolve the autonomous parliaments or the autonomous governments. As I see that I have less than half a minute left and the appointments of these three teachers are very relevant, I will keep them for my second intervention. In any case, Minister, we are faced with an overflowing and overflowing application of the material scope of Article 155, with the result that the Government suspends and repeals this decree calling for elections, exceeding its material powers under Article 155. I think we'll have a chance to keep arguing in the second round. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, the title or denomination of the inquiry has to do with a supposed democratic crisis in the functioning of justice in Spain and allow me to begin by denying the largest. It seems to me that in Spain there is no democratic crisis at all in the functioning of justice. I'd dare say the opposite. Justice is fully independent, completely professional and fulfils its democratic and guaranteeing role, which is nothing other than ensuring compliance with the laws and protecting our rights and freedoms. I am sure that everyone, and you in particular, agree with this principle, among other things, because the institutions in which your political forces are represented usually go to justice, file appeals, go to the courts of justice and go to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, they firmly believe what I have just said. That is the reality of our democracy, that is the reality of our institutions and weak favor makes our democracy try to make it look like things are not really. That independence and democratic quality is guaranteed 100 per cent and it is not because I say it here, from this rostrum, that our Constitution and our entire legal system firmly establishes it. It is recognized by all the international organizations of which Spain has been a member for many years. To be a member of the European Union, we must be a consolidated democracy and we are a democracy many years ago and, therefore, it is also implicit there. All associations of judges, prosecutors, professionals in the world of law say so, and everyone says so, Your Honor. Spain is a rule of law where there is separation of powers, where justice acts independently every day and where citizens have all the mechanisms that protect our rights and freedoms. For these and other reasons, we are part of what is described as full democracies. This is a democracy index that draws up The Economist, one of the most prestigious reports in democratic matters, where 167 states of the world are analyzed and where only 19, according to this publication, qualify as full democracy and Spain is ranked 17. Spain is in the group of states recognized by The Economist. There are many indices, many indicators, many publications, but this one is of prestige, is absolutely independent and places us as a full democracy in position 17 of 19, within the 169 states it analyzes. Your Honour, you have made a number of considerations in relation to elements which, in your view, believe that this is not the case. For example, he mentioned that the appointment of the State Attorney General may have to have a link with this House. Your Honor, I recognize that I have a certain paradox. We are constantly saying that the appointment of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary must be outside the political power, must not have a parliamentary origin, in order to guarantee their independence and it turns out that the Attorney General of the State has to come here and be linked to the parliamentary majorities. I really don't understand. He also said that the reform that had been approved of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which gave it the power to enforce its resolutions, was a manifestation of this failure of democratic quality. I think the opposite is true. Recent experience has shown that the Spanish Parliament did very well to pass the reform of that organic law which has allowed the Constitutional Court to do something as normal as having instruments to make its resolutions effective. Therefore, Your Honor, the examples you have set, in my view, not only do not discredit, but rather, on the contrary, demonstrate the strength of our institutions and our democratic system. The implementation of the mechanism provided for in article 155 of our Constitution is yet another demonstration of the strength of our democracy. I recognize that it has been the implementation of a system we had no precedent for, of which we had no record in Spain or in any other country of our political environment, so it has been a novel experience, but it has been carried out with absolute and scrupulous respect for the formal aspects. According to article 155 of the Constitution, the Government proposes a series of measures and sends them to the Senate, where all citizens are represented. [[The lady]] I do not think it is necessary to make a speech on the legitimacy of Members and Senators representing all citizens and not just those in their constituency. We all represent all Spaniards. The Senate, after an intense debate, with all the representation of the parliamentary arch, approved with a very broad majority those measures which legitimized the Government of the nation to carry out a series of actions such as those it has carried out, all of them with the utmost respect for the law, the Constitution and our system of guarantees. Your Honor, I understand that it is legitimate, from a political point of view, to raise once again your doubts and concerns, but trying to delegitimize our democracy does a weak favor to those who for so many years and decades have worked for today to have the rule of law, the state protecting our freedoms and our guarantees that we have fully consolidated in our country. The debate has an intellectual or academic interest and I imagine that there will be individuals or institutions who have procedural legitimacy to raise this issue before the courts or the Constitutional Court. Welcome to the use of weapons of defence of rights in democracy: the courts of justice or our Constitutional Court, supreme interpreter of our Constitution. Let us hope, if anyone raises an appeal in these terms, that the ordinary courts or the Constitutional Court will analyse and interpret how article 155 has been applied for the first time in our democratic history and whether it has occurred within the mandate carried out by the Senate and the constitutional forecasts. Personally, I am convinced that this is the case, but, as I recognize the supremacy of the law and the interpreters of the law, I do not become the interpreter of our Constitution and our laws and we will see what the ordinary courts or the Constitutional Court are telling us in their day. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must re-emphasize this debate on the strength of our institutions and on the subjection of all, absolutely all, to the activity of judicial control. Because I am sure that you will not want to suggest that there are some citizens who have an obligation to comply with the laws and others do not, that some, because they exercise political representation, have a better status, a better area of rights and therefore do not have to answer to the justice of their actions. I am sure that you do not advocate that anyone who has to go to court to explain his actions sneaking away overnight across borders, taking advantage of free movement, in order to try to get out of the way of justice; no one, and less a political representative to whom the citizens have given their confidence should have the opportunity to commit an act of indignity like that. That is indeed an act of democratic anomaly, that a person who is at the head of a political party, a person who seems to want to run for election, flees stealthily and indignantly in order not to meet his responsibilities before justice. In a rule of law, Your Honor, politicians are not untouchable; on the contrary, we have a plus of exemplaryness, a plus of response to our facts and actions. It would therefore be better for all political leaders to always be at the disposal of justice because that would strengthen democratic guarantees and the confidence of all citizens that justice works equally for all; everyone has the right to judicial guardianship and also to defence before the courts. But since we have created an area of justice and security in Europe, I am convinced that the arrest and surrender orders that a Spanish judge has sent to a Belgian judge in this case will be enforced and, therefore, will be brought to justice. Your Honor, in the case of the sovereignist challenge, our justice has been equal to our citizens and our democracy. Those who have not been able to do so have been those who have sought to condition, coerce or intimidate judges and magistrates, judicial secretaries - who have had to leave on the roof of public buildings financed by the taxes of all Catalans and all Spaniards - and some have not allowed them to do their work as public servants. [[Applauds]] The judges and prosecutors have lived up to the circumstances. It would be a good debate, Your Honor, if we were to talk about the paints, the scraps or what happened this weekend when some particular house of a judge or a prosecutor has been attacked. We do not know who it was, but there have been attacks on the personal and family patrimony of judges and prosecutors in an improper act of a democracy such as the Spanish one, in an improper act of a free society such as the one we democrats want. It gives me the impression that some do not want to live in democracy, do not want to live in freedom; they live comfortably in a society that threatens, coerces and limits the rights of the dissenters. That is indeed a democratic anomaly and that is not to guarantee the functioning of the institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u163	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, after the use of the batons on 1 October against the civilian population of Catalonia, what you have to do is come here to ask for forgiveness, on behalf of the government, for an absolutely disproportionate and improper behaviour of a democracy. [[Applauds]] Until you come here to apologize we will not come here to discuss other issues than if they have been out of the reach of proportionality and law, obviously they will be discussed. You tell us we're here to delegitimize democracy. Minister, we are elected representatives of half a million voters and we have every right to come here to question you and to criticize not democracy but the government and its actions, the way you have decided to apply Article 155. I have argued to you and will again argue that the application of Article 155 blindly - you have acknowledged it -, without legislative development, has been an application not adjusted to the law, dissolving the Parliament, dissolving the Government and calling elections, with which, no lesson of whether we are delegitimizing democracy. We like democracy so much that we believe that the solution is referendums, ballots, votes, giving the voice to the people, and you want to stop this possibility of giving the voice to the people even with batons on October 1. [[Applauds]] By the way, you have begun your intervention by saying that things are as they are, a very Galician phrase, things are as they are. Well, if you are as you are, I beg your cabinet colleague, Minister Dastis, not to live in the parallel reality of visiting international television stations saying that in Catalonia reality was a falsity; I ask your colleague Dastis, twice repudiated by this Congress of Deputies in a month, not to continue to lie radically about the reality of the facts on 1 October. Ladies and gentlemen, the main thesis of my first speech was that the Government has no enabling title for the dissolution of the Government of the Generalitat and the Parliament and for the convening of elections. Professor Eduardo García de Enterria, in his book The Autonomous Execution of State Legislation, states in relation to article 155: What measures can be requested and taken? It seems clear that under no circumstances can measures be taken to dissolve autonomous bodies or revoke their political positions. The Constitution has deliberately fled from measures of control of this gravity, which are nevertheless present in the Italian Constitution. End of date. Professor Jesús García Torres, in his book Article 155 of the Constitution and the constitutional principle of autonomy, states: Article 155 essentially renders inadmissible as a measure of compulsion the dissolution of the legislative assembly of the autonomous community or the dismissal of its Governing Council. And Professor José María Gil Robles, in The extraordinary control of the autonomous communities: article 155, states: The dissolution of the organs of the autonomous communities or the replacement of their holders unnecessary measures, because it is not a question of punishing the autonomous community or the holders of the organs but of forcing them to fulfil their obligations. End of date. Mr Minister, clearly in your decree implementing Article 155 you have gone beyond the material sphere of Article 155. In fact, there had been a previous intervention, an aperitif of intervention by Minister Montoro, who also accompanies us today in this debate, and here I have a list of entities that have simply not been able to develop their work in the social field, for example, because the Government has not acted in time and form in this supplantation, in this intervention of autonomy. Finally, the President of the Generalitat cooperates with the justice system, with the Belgian justice system, because it has been made available to the Belgian justice system, which neither pre-empts nor solicits bail nor does what the Spanish justice system does. Perhaps in this culture of European collaboration we should be inspired by the practices of Belgian justice. Minister, you have made a very bad use of Article 155, and the solution is only one, raising that Article 155, raising the political hands of the intervention of Catalonia's self-government and its vocation as self-government. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u165	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u166	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I find the constitutional debate very attractive and very interesting, especially with the quotations made by your lordship of the teachers of administrative law and constitutional law to whom we have all studied, such as Don Eduardo García de Enterria, Don Jesús González Pérez... We are delighted to have this debate on that level because that is where we must have it, in the legal and institutional sphere, recognizing the quality of our institutions, of our democratic system, and not going around delegitimizing and talking badly about what is not true, of the great democracy that we have built among all of us in Spain. I must admit that the phrase that Mr Puigdemont is cooperating with justice is very good. I do not know when he was collaborating, when he left at night stealthily in a car or now he refuses to show up and will have to bring him by virtue of the exercise of international cooperation. He seems not to be working to cooperate, he's more into having dinners, enjoying the climate in Brussels, while his former government colleagues are here responding to his responsibilities. In any case, we have known in recent times this concept of fashion now of post-truth, that of which are more emotions than realities. It doesn't matter anymore because man, talking about lies on October 1st... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We are all looking forward to the evolution of the attention parts of so many hundreds of injured people that day, because, it is true, there were hundreds and hundreds of injured people and it would be very good to know how they are doing, to see if they are already recovered from their multiple injuries, lest they misunderstand the hand in which they had a capsulitis, as some example we have known, and so many examples of manipulation as those that occurred in those days. Entering the core, which I find very interesting, of the debate, what legitimacy, what does article 155 of the Constitution allow? The Government, in its proposal to the Senate, and the Senate in its express approval of the debate that took place, proposed the cessation of the President of the Generalitat, the Vice-President and the Councillors and their replacement in the exercise of all the functions that legal, normative and statutory are their own by whom it was established. Therefore, the powers which the legal framework confers on the President of the Generalitat - which, as you have rightly said, are to promote the dissolution of Parliament and the convening of elections - are exercised by the President of the Government. There is a competitive succession in those terms, that is what Article 155 enables and that is strictly what has been done. Your Honor, I insist, I find the debate on constitutional and administrative law very attractive, but we cannot forget where we come from. We have come from the most serious threat to our democratic coexistence in recent decades, when one Parliament has believed that it could declare independence, that it could impose the will of one against another, not respecting the constitutional framework or the statute itself of autonomy, which are the fundamental rules governing Catalonia and the rest of Spain. In the face of such an extraordinarily serious situation, in the face of such a flagrant breach of obligations, there was no doubt that the implementation of article 155 of the Constitution needed to be addressed for the first time in our history. We believe that it has been done in a prudent, proportionate, reasonable manner, appropriate to the gravity of the situation and are therefore taking the appropriate measures, the ultimate objective of which you know what it is, Your Honor? To restore democracy, restore coexistence and guarantee the rights of Catalans and all Spaniards. I believe that if anyone has to apologize these days they are those who have fueled social confrontation and conflict. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know - to speak in simple terms - any constitutionalist who has gone to threaten, coerce or paint the facade of any independentist and I do know many independentists who have crushed judges, painted in shops and houses and, as I have said, cut electricity and energy supplies to public servants such as judges and prosecutors. [[Protests.-Several Members: Hala!]] Anyone who has created this environment in Catalonia should apologize to all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u167	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE ON GOVERNMENT PREVISIONS IN CONNECTION WITH THE AMENDMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT RULE APPLICABLE TO LOCAL ENTITIES. [[File number 172/000083]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u168	We now turn to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's urgent appeal to the Minister for Finance and Public Service on the Government's forecasts for the amendment of the expenditure rule applicable to local authorities. For your defence, Mrs. Sumelzo Jordan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Montoro, in politics, nobody escapes that there is a clear line that separates the opportunity from opportunism and on which side we choose to be will depend to a large extent on the credit that is given to those who are dedicated to representing the general interests of the citizenry. [[The Lord]] I dare say that, although it is sometimes late, citizens end up appreciating, even by rewarding, those who know how to exercise their responsibilities, whether from the government or from the work of the opposition, bringing to Parliament and putting forward proposals that have to do with very serious problems that are part of the reality of this country. In line with this reflection that I have made, I have identified the meaning that has led us to the Socialist Parliamentary Group to ask the Government about its plans regarding the economic future of the municipalities, which is also to talk about the future of millions of neighbours whose quality of life depends to some extent on the services and services offered to them by local governments. There is no better opportunity, Mr Montoro, to bring this matter to this House, and I hope that also in the spirit of the Government, when thousands of municipalities are currently preparing their budgets for 2018. Minister, the time is running out to carry out the reforms that all-political municipalities have been demanding with justice for a very long time, and the municipal mandate is already entering its last effective year to develop the policies that citizens have entrusted to those who are today exercising municipal government, local government. [[Applauds]] I am going from here to the Government to move you that the time has run out for the unfulfilled promises, the evasive ones, the long ones changed, let me express it in this way. If the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings to this House a debate that is no other than that of the margins for financing the policies of the 8125 municipalities we have, it is because the Government itself, despite the demands that have been made to it from the FEMP and from the municipalities itself, has finally chosen to give the silent answer, Mr Montoro, because it does not answer with the clarity required by this important matter. What you are trying to do - we do not miss - is to extend the time until this parliamentary term is over without any change. This is - I can summarise this - the fear which has been placed on the municipal authorities, a fear which is more than well founded, Minister, that your Government will continue to do nothing, leaving the cost of budgetary discipline to fall mainly on the backs of the Spanish municipalities, which is the same as saying that it will continue to fall on the backs of its neighbours. We were surprised, Mr Montoro, by your start of sincerity at last week's plenary session, when you, to a question on this very subject from the Member speaking to you, acknowledged that you ignored the lack of response of your own ministry to the proposals for the flexibility of the spending rule that had moved you last September from the FEMP. I would like to make a point here to thank, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the presence of mayors and other representatives of the FEMP who are in the guest gallery and who are suffering day by day from the problem we are talking about today. [[Applauds]] Mr Montoro, there are plenty of reasons for the alarm at this point. We are alarmed by the lack of receptivity of his department towards the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, which represents the majority of the municipalities, the diputations and the lobbyists and island councils. We are also alarmed by the lack of respect for your ministry, bearing in mind that you were committed to maintaining a permanent dialogue with the FEMP and seeking solutions. At the time they recognized that there was a problem and now they seem to choose, as in football matches that are at the limit of regulatory time, to throw balls out and to waste time. We are also alarmed - I regret to say so, Mr Montoro - by the lack of minimal follow-up by the Minister of Finance on the progress of the talks of his ministerial team with the municipalities on financing and local finances. Minister, you know better than anyone that local authorities are the only public administration that has been scrupulously fulfilling the criteria of stability, deficit, debt and expenditure ceilings for several years. I'll sum it up shortly. A total of 25 billion surpluses have been accumulated in recent years by all local authorities: municipalities, provincial parliaments, lobbyists and island councils. Last year it reached a surplus of 6847 million euros, which represents 0.61% of GDP. As for debt, if in 2016 the target was 3% of GDP, the result was 2.9%; once again, Minister, proof surpassed by local administrations. In short, the municipalities have exemplaryly complied with the management with the criteria of stability and you know why it was, Minister? For a sustained effort and for an excellent management of public resources, a recognition that the Socialist Group wants to bring here and that in our view must commit the whole of Parliament. [[Applauds]] The municipalities, Minister, have once again demonstrated - as they have been doing since 1979 - that they constitute a reliable and indispensable administration in the provision of public services for citizens. Democracy has been legitimized in the municipalities, and for that reason our peoples and cities must not become branches of other public administrations. Therefore, from here we claim once again the local autonomy enshrined in the Spanish Constitution. Minister, on 27 December, it is four years since the adoption of the Local Reform Act, a law for which you are directly responsible and which has served above all to cut down on the powers and public services of the municipalities. A retrograde and anti-municipalist law that questions everyone, also the mayors of the People's Party. A law that instead of serving to boost local autonomy is serving to none of the municipalities and citizens. Review your agenda, Mr Montoro, as well as those of those responsible for your ministry; review the conclusions of the meetings of the Cenal, of the so-called local over-financing working groups in which some secretaries of state who are within your ministry and who do not resolve anything. Complimentary municipalities, Mr Montoro, ask the government for flexibility. The mayors of all the parties - also those of the PP, I insist - want to reinvest the surplus in what they consider to be urgent and important for their neighbours; nothing more and nothing less than investing in infrastructures, in employment plans, in social and educational policies, in equality programmes, in sustainability projects, in recovering staff to provide the best municipal services, and also, Mr Montoro, to have sufficient teams of local police, firefighters, social workers, etc., etc. The municipalities, Mr Montoro, ask the government to undertake a change to make the spending rule more flexible; look, I am talking about making it more flexible, not eliminating it. I would therefore ask you to spare us a very brief explanation of the need for the rule because what we are demanding is its reform, its flexibility, since the current rigidity leads local entities to incur, exercise after exercise, an excessive structural surplus. Listen to me carefully, Minister, we will not be so misguided in the Socialist Parliamentary Group when we denounce the excessive rigidity of the rule of expenditure that you are committed to maintaining when even your own Secretary of State for Budgets came to recognise it at a meeting of the Cenal on 19 September, certainly coinciding with the criterion of the Fiscal Authority in the need to introduce greater flexibility. [[Applauds]] And one more thing, Mr Montoro, does not attempt to slip away as you did during Question Time at the previous plenary meeting by shielding yourself from European demands. It's enough to never meet the city halls, their mayors and neighbors. Gentlemen of the People's Party, Minister, show with facts that it is people who are concerned about them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sumelzo. I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sumelzo, I will begin as you ended, with the recognition - as I have done so many times publicly and from this House - of the work carried out by the municipalities and local corporations in Spain, firstly, as an instrument for our democracy, for the proximity of politics to the citizen and, secondly, as public managers who have shown that it is really feasible and possible to have municipalities, local corporations and healthy deputies with the assurance that their budgetary consolidation, their positive financial balance, goes to the provision of public services for the citizens. This recognition I do once again, of course, on the occasion of the Socialist Group's inquiry and I have done so at every meeting of the National Commission of Local Administration, which, by the way, with this Government of Spain and in my capacity as Minister of Finance and Public Service is the period during which the National Commission of Local Administration has been convened most often in our country. Every time the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council has been convened, the National Commission for Local Administration has also been convened, and this has been done by this Government, the Government of the People's Party, giving these local corporations the institutional importance they deserve in our legal and constitutional order, since they have been referred to the insertion and compulsory consultation of many issues that were previously completely relegated. Having said that, it is true that the municipalities and local corporations as a whole shed a budgetary surplus year by year that makes those resources actually exist, which, I insist, are the result of this positive management. As a result, those billions of euros in excess, but I will compare them with the billions of bills that have not been paid for years and that we find when we arrive at the Government of Spain. Or did not a supplier operation have to be carried out that provided almost EUR 10 billion to the municipalities? Wasn't that the situation? What has changed from then to now? That the municipalities have surpluses, that they are meeting the average payment deadlines for suppliers and that all their procurement is much more transparent since it is subject to the Transparency and Good Government Act, a law that believes that all billing is electronic so that it can be consulted not by members of local corporations who are not in the exercise of the Government, but by all citizens. Is that right or not? Isn't that the situation? What was the situation when we arrived at the Government in 2011? Total bankruptcy, technical bankruptcy, and the proposals on the table were closing thousands of local corporations, thousands. The political debate, therefore, the debate driven by international institutions, the debate driven by governments that had the same problems of lack of budgetary stability in Europe, governments of sister countries, was how many thousands of municipalities we are going to close in Spain. Or does no one remember that debate? How lucky they are, they have no memory; they talk so much about the historical memory and they don't talk about the memory of the year 2011; a memory very close to where we were going to that situation of closure of thousands of municipalities in our country. [[Applauds]] Today they are all open, the vast majority are healed. At present there are about 230 or 240 in a very difficult situation that is being dealt with by the legal funds so that none of them fail to provide services that they are providing to citizens. That is also possible because there are some laws, which are the ones that your lordship comes here to question. One of them, the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Corporations which, by the way, several socialist autonomous communities led to the Constitutional, validating the court some of the articles and others were annulled, but the law, in terms of defining local competences, is in force. Therefore, it was not questioned that, through an organic law, this Parliament had the capacity to define the competences so that there would be no overlapping of powers with the autonomous communities, which does not prevent the delegation of powers between sufficiently well financed administrations. They are healthy today, I said, because we have a law, although you do not like the law, you will already have a majority to change it, that is democracy; so soon, we have it in force and we will comply with it. Just like the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, which establishes the objectives of stability, which are the objective of public deficit, the rule of expenditure and the objective of public debt. That is European governance, as I said in the reply. Or is it not European governance? Mrs Sumelzo, come up here, to the rostrum, to say that it is not European governance and, if so, tell me what European governance is. It is also true that Spain has corrected its public deficit since 9.3, which it had in 2011, and we will be able to close this year by 3.1%, which makes us in the exit port of the excessive deficit procedure. We are the only member country of the euro that we are still in an excessive deficit procedure because we exceed 3% of all public administrations. This therefore causes us to have to be rigorous, very rigorous in terms of the implementation of European governance, and it is also appropriate for us to do so. What's a town hall? A city council is a political delimitation of our public administrations. What's going on in those town halls? That there is economic growth, that there is job creation, that there is economic recovery and that facilitates the resources of the administrations as a whole, of the General Administration of the State and of the local corporations. When there is no growth and economic recession, the city has no income, and when there is growth and job creation, the city, the autonomous community and the General Administration of the State have more resources. That is what justifies and explains that European governance laws, budget stability laws have the rule of spending. What does the spending rule mean? What can't they spend? No, it does not mean that new resources cannot be spent on new expenditure, which means that there is a limit on expenditure growth and that limit is determined by European governance, which is the rule of expenditure. The limit, for an exercise like this, is that expenditure cannot grow above 2.1%, which is the growth potential of the Spanish economy also established on European regulations. So is it good that there are limits to increased spending? In my opinion, it is not that it is good, it is absolutely necessary, it is very healthy for the countries. Less plans E and more pay the bill and more have the municipalities cleaned up. [[Applauds]] When one makes a plan E and then does not pay, does not charge the locksmith, do not charge the plumbers who have fixed those enclosures. They don't charge, and that means they don't charge from local corporations and ruin thousands of small businesses, self-governing in our country. That is what has happened in Spain and that is what we are avoiding with these European spending rules. So, are you talking to a convinced government about the Stability Act? It's not that I'm a defender, it's that I'm a believer, as I've declared myself. I believe in Europe, I believe in the euro. I have had the opportunity to work for my country to belong to the euro, to found the euro against economic forecasts, and the euro cannot work, it cannot be operational without economic stability and without budgetary stability. That is why the spending rule is very important, because it limits expenditure growth to economic growth. Can this be checked? It will be reviewed when it is reviewed in the European bodies, first of all; it will be reviewed when Spain is outside the excessive deficit procedure, because otherwise, of course, we will be in all the public administrations, non-compliant; and the interpretations will be reviewed according to the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. We are working on the proposals that have been transferred to us by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, but they are proposals that if in the calculation, when it comes to establishing what is the effectiveness of the rule of expenditure, it is better to apply the expenditure actually carried out by a council over budgeted expenditure. They are such interpretations, which, by the way, we already changed during the legislature at the request of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. We are now being moved to the opposite; as we are going to consider it, we are going to consider these kinds of modifications, of course. But let us not question what we should not do, because we are part of those European bodies. We must not shift doubts about Spain's need to reduce its public deficit, and the less we must shift those doubts when what is happening is that, fortunately, in Spain, in these municipalities, jobs are being created, with more than six hundred thousand social security affiliations until October. That is therefore the policy, together with the other structural reforms, to which we must serve those who have responsibility for the management of public resources, for economic growth, for job creation and, to this end, the current experience shows us that stability is the best way forward. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u172	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Sumelzo Jordan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Many of your words are smoke, Mr Montoro. We're used to it. You are masters in the art of confusing and we also know your fine irony and your carelessness towards the municipalities. Please don't wear it on the flag of Europe. European governance has brought us back here. You know perfectly well, and your ministry team too, that best practices on the spending rule are practiced in European countries and Europe has a less restrictive spending rule than Spain. It is also well aware that the European Union establishes the general framework of the rule, but the criteria with which it applies are the competence of each State. Therefore, stop using that argument. I repeat that we do not discuss the rule, but its application criteria, and that, Mr Montoro, depends on you, so do not tell us monsers. Municipal budgets are on top of the table. The year 2018 is around the corner and local government teams need criteria that neither you nor your ministry gives. They are working blindly, do not know the share in the State's income, nor the share in the income of the autonomous communities, nor the criteria on the rate of replacement of the layoffs in the workforce, nor the salary increase of the public employees. They have left the city halls to their fate, and that, Mr. Montoro, is called defiance. So far you have appeared to be willing to have a dialogue but without consenting to any outcome; a false dialogue because it does not respond to the proposals put to it on the table; to date, you still do not respond to the proposals presented to you two months ago by the EMFF. So, Minister, your department has been playing with the leaders of the FEMP and the municipal world for a long time and they have been playing to store, with solutions that indefinitely delay promises that are postponed and extended over and over again with the elasticity of a gum. We repeat: Complimentary municipalities, which are the ones that present healthy public accounts and those that you penalize, ask for flexibility to apply the spending rule. These mayors want to invest the surplus in everything they consider priority for their neighbours: employment plans, welfare policies, sustainability projects, youth policies, equality policies... [[Applauds]] Because, Mr Montoro, the municipalities are also state, and when this House approved the State Pact against Gender Violence we also included the municipalities that have to provide their support and resources, and you, Minister, are holding back and preventing the municipalities from developing many of these programmes. In short, it is about investing in politics for people, for people, and you seem to be more concerned about banks and tax amnesties, and let us not forget how well the surplus of the municipalities comes to you to cover up your own non-compliances, because the Government, your Government, the People's Party Government, Mr Montoro, has failed to comply with the 2014 budget years, 2015 and 2016. I anticipate that we will bring a motion that will seek the support of Congress to what thousands of mayors and their government teams demand, with justice, for their municipalities regarding the rule of spending, also for the municipal surplus, the indebtedness and the replacement rate. As you always return to the same subject - what we left and the problem of the municipalities -, I have nothing but an example that I have read in the press this morning. Let's talk about Jaén. The former mayor of Jaén, the number two of his ministry, left in the city a debt of more than 400 million euros, never met the objective of budgetary stability and increased his public debt from 345% on their 2013 budgets to 482% in 2017. [[The lady]] His ministry has forgiven Jaén the cuts for which he intervenes at the Madrid City Council. [[Applauds]] Mr Montoro, stand beside the municipalities, stand beside the mayors and councillors, stand beside the citizens and the citizens who demand from the public authorities attention and support to live better, in towns and cities that are sustainable, friendly and that are for everyone. The Socialists, Minister, are prepared, as always, to continue to bet on people, live where they live. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u174	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Sumelzo, everyone in life follows the script and you come here to replicate the topics that are more at hand, which they would say a little more illustrated, because now you bring the City Hall of Jaén. Let's see, the issue of the City Hall of Jaén was discussed by the Secretary of State for Finance himself in his appearance less than fifteen days ago with the Socialist Group. Wasn't you? [[Mrs. Sumelzo Jordan: No]] I was not, but that was the subject of content and debate, but I see that you were not either. But it doesn't matter, now how we have to contrast it with that of Madrid, because I'm talking about singing and shooting because it touches me. That's what he does. Secondly, I refer to singing by raising to the rostrum a deputy from a group that governs Spain in terms of autonomous communities, in terms of municipalities and says that the interpretation of a law of stability depends on me, he has said so! Hey, it gives me a capacity! What do you think is a minister? [[Ms. Sumelzo Jordan: A Minister]] It's just that it's really fascinating, but it's also troubling, because it transfers an image to public opinion absolutely out of place. Do you think I can interpret the law according to the mood I get up every morning? [[Mrs. Sumelzo Jordan: No]] It's just that it's really fascinating that way of talking: 'you know it's interpretation...'. Look, I assure you that exercising the office of government is law enforcement and enforcement, it is my obligation, and the law is decided here, here, in this Parliament, in this delegation of popular sovereignty, here, here. So, when the Socialist Group wants to change the law, what does it want? Will it bring a motion where it says that the spending rule must be abolished? [[Mrs. Sumelzo Jordan: No]] No, it's not gonna make it clear, of course. Look, some of those sitting here would do it, look at them, they're excited, if they don't want to comply with the spending rule, budget stability, the euro! [[Laughter]] You do not even want to be members of the euro, because you say that this thing in Europe has to reinvent everything. Here are a number of political groups that are reinventing human existence every day, every day. I do not know how Spanish democracy could live so long without them, but I did not mean you, the Socialist Group, but others. The Socialist Group, with all the government responsibility it has, how can it be said that it really depends on the Minister's criterion the interpretation of a precept of an organic law, the rule of expenditure, which adheres to the criteria strictly of European bodies, including in its calculation the one established by Eurostat and which interprets the General Intervention of the State? But do you really believe that in a Ministry of Finance and Public Service the minister determines the general intervention of the state what is computable and not computable in terms of expenditure? This is the interpretation that some, of course, make, but it's not good to talk like that, really. [[Denials of Mrs. Sumelzo Jordan]] Not anymore, but he told me so, he told me so: 'it's up to you', and it's not up to me, frankly. It depends on the law, and that law - I have already explained it - comes from European governance. It is very good that there is such a law, as it was very good when we reformed article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, which was done by a socialist government with the support of the People's Party in the opposition, and with a servant member of that Commission of the reform of article 135, which is the result of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability; it was very good. But that doesn't mean that the municipalities can't make financially sustainable investment, they can. In 2016 they did it. This formula has been hosted by 1043 local authorities, 1009 municipalities and 34 provincial deputies. [[Show a document]] The total amount of investment approved amounts to EUR 696.31 million, which could actually have been more, but it is an important figure. The formula has been used by 1043 local entities in 2016; of course there is the formula, the formula to use and apply that surplus and, therefore, it is the formula to be carried out. I'm done, Madam President. As far as templates are concerned, they are being reviewed. The replacement rate can exceed that one hundred percent and that also sets out all our regulations, which we have been adapting during this exercise as a result of the Conference of Presidents that we held in January of this year 2017. And, therefore, there were identified those public services that might need more personnel and are not even subject to the 100% replacement rate. All this is what must be established and valued and I hope that the motion will be sufficiently constructive because the responsibilities of government in this area must be shared and from the ministry we will respond to the demands of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, but obviously we will be open in the future when Spain exits the excessive deficit procedure and modifies the European institutions those rules of governance in order to be able to adapt them jointly to Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u176	Thank you very much. - OF THE UNITED NATIONS CUSTOMS PARLIAMENTARY GROUP WE CAN COMMUNICATELY POSSIBLE IN MAREA, TO THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT ON THE SERIOUS NEEDS OF MEASURES BY THE GOVERNMENT TO ENSURE EFFECTIVE ACCESS TO CULTURE. [[File number 172/000084]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u177	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the urgent appeal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport on the serious lack of measures by the Government to guarantee effective access to culture. For your defence, Mrs. García Sempere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister and ladies and gentlemen. I will begin by reading an article in our Constitution, the one whose most progressive content they like to systematically fail to comply with as they unbelievably soften it by calling it constitutional, a precious article, 44.1, which speaks of the fact that the public authorities will promote and protect access to culture, to which everyone - I understand - is entitled. The truth is that behind this precious article the reality we find is that the cultural sector in Spain has always suffered from a legislative model that responds to the specific needs of workers and small businesses in the sector. Unfortunately, in addition to this, in recent years this lack of legislation has been aggravated by three factors that have worsened the situation to unsustainable limits: the economic crisis and its more than harmful management by the governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party; the strong technological transformations into consumption habits and, last but not least, the policy of cuts and the imposition of new fiscal measures and legislative reforms that have led to a permanent increase in precariousness in all sections and professional areas of culture. The fact that culture in our country has not been regarded as a matter of state in rigor or as a basic constitutional right, but rather as an adornment that you add to economic and social achievements, has led to the fact that the different governments, not only you, but also the previous ones, have not opted for a cultural model of their own or generated sufficiently strong areas of collaboration between the different administrations. I ask you, because it is an inquiry: are you guaranteeing this access to culture for all, as the Constitution establishes? What have you done about it during these years? What is happening in particular in the rural world? And in the excluded or peripheral neighborhoods of our cities? What class barrier are they reinforcing in access to culture? I hope you will respond to me with concrete facts because we would like concrete answers, answers on how effective and on what is behind this question. If we look at the budget allocation they are allocating to culture, we see that in the last approved budgets its importance is decreasing even more than it has already been decreasing. They predicted in these budgets an economic growth of 2.5% and yet, counting on it, they approved to cut the investment in culture by 0.25%, but in concrete terms it means that it is half a million euros less for libraries, 2.5 million less for theatre and, eye, 15 million less in 2016 for archaeology and protection of cultural heritage. I imagine you should know, but we are the third country in the world in number of cultural goods considered World Heritage by UNESCO and surprise the love and protection that our heritage deserves to be so patriotic. One issue I cannot fail to point out is the increase in the rate of cultural VAT from 8% to 21%, which, as you know, has remained competitive in the sector and that the recent 10% drop in live shows has not yet improved this competitiveness, as well as leaving aside such important sectors as cinema, heritage or museums. Moreover, in the middle of the 21st century in our country, cultural professionals and professionals still lack access to social coverage and decent working conditions. We speak of creators, of creators, of those who write, roll, dance and act, but also of the technical and general staff of the institutions that spread the culture, technicians of patrimony, tramoyistas, taquilleros, accomodadoras, vigilantes and a long et cetera. We are also talking about one of the most alarming cases in which authors and authors have been involved. They have suffered how they were claimed insecure amounts and were deprived of their pensions by a simple change in the approach of the Administration. This change of approach means that, by considering their pensions incompatible with the remuneration of their works' rights, which often do not exceed the annual interprofessional minimum wage, we bring poverty to our creators, to the people who build the culture of our country. Of course, as it could not be otherwise, if in all sectors there is a gender structural problem that feeds society's inequality, it could not be less here. The situation of positions of responsibility in the cultural sector is no different; the wage gap is very evident. Minister, cultural goods are not consumer goods; they carry identity and values. UNESCO already approved it almost twenty years ago in a declaration in which it defended cultural diversity as something as necessary as biological diversity. We wonder to what extent they are promoting these values of social cohesion, peace, public happiness, class affairs, basic rights, cultural identity, free expression in the language you want, promotion of creativity, a living, original and critical culture. How are you encouraging him? How do they include and encourage these cultural manifestations of those who come from other lands to enrich our vision of the world? What space does the so-called culture of foundations deserve for you? I'd like you to answer us. The fundamental problem is that they do not have a culture model and that in material terms is concrete in that they permanently violate article 68 of the Spanish Historical Heritage Act or at least do not comply with it in its entirety. It says: In the budget of each public work, financed in whole or in part by the State, it will include an item equivalent to at least 1% -1.5% since 2014 - of the funds that are of state contribution to finance works of conservation or enrichment of the Spanish Historical Heritage or of promotion of artistic creativity, preferably in the work itself or in its immediate environment. Are you really complying with this law or just a part of it? Because for the moment the calls of the Ministry of Development are only for the conservation and restoration of the cultural heritage - also with some clamorous cases - but at no time for the creation of artistic activities or for R+D+i projects. When the precariousness of the sector is so great, not betting on this is a disaster. If all the spaces that were restored were devoted, as the law says, also to artistic creativity, filled with content and were not merely work, the world of art and cultural research would remind you with much more affection. Do you know where most of this heritage can be restored and endowed with content, but which, unfortunately, is not usually executed? In the rural world. And you know what else happens in the rural world? Following a report that came out a couple of weeks ago, we know - I suppose you must know too - that young people living there, in rural environments, consume on average more alcohol, tobacco and cannabis than urban youth. We talk about percentages that reach 60% and we don't think it's a coincidence. The disposition of public space is not innocent, the pre-eminence of bars in the small municipalities of this country is not innocent and that there are no houses of culture is neither. They are masculinized spaces and lack of cultural options and, if we add it to the lack of public services and children's schools, the digital divide, the lack of access to the Internet and the lack of access to culture, it is not necessary to be very smart to know that this is going to be the path to follow. Then it turns out that we set up commissions to know why they leave the rural world and why women and young people feel expelled. We defend the right to joy in our peoples. Culture is key to curbing depopulation and this, which after forty years of catastrophic policies - everything has to be said - has specific responsibilities, begins to worry. We need living peoples, with cultural policies and not theme parks to spend Sundays, which is what many of their projects are about. We also advocate that our creative youth not be expelled from their country and have to emigrate, that they not be kicked out of their professional activity and vocation for lack of opportunities and that they not be locked in their cities. Do you know what's going on? The absence of this cultural model makes young artists unable to finance themselves or live in the cities where they were born and cannot develop their artistic programs. Why? Because culture we understand it as franchises of globalized models and must go to search for better spaces. There is a lack of an integral model for cities and the rural world. I give you a clue: the franchise culture is not an integral model. And another clue - there are steps that can be taken with the law that we have right now -: to increase the production and dissemination of artistic creation and cultural heritage in all territorial environments - and we take advantage of and collect another article of the Constitution, that of guaranteeing the principle of solidarity in rural areas and excluded neighbourhoods and the rest of the city centre -. Finally, I will make a reflection and a question, I want to know your opinion. I suppose you will know that the European Parliament, taking up the recommendations of UNESCO, includes cultural and artistic competence among the basic competences for the integral development of pupils - I am not going to suffer, I am not going to talk about Lomce - but the problem we see is that not only are the curricula merely academic, we must take dance, theatre and literature to schools. You are constantly cornering music, philosophy, plastic; all of this is matter that - it is more than proven - promotes not only those cultural values but also helps other matters that in principle would not seem so. We ask you: Do you have a culture project in the public school or in areas of particular interest for your depopulation rates or where you have high levels of social exclusion and where culture is more than necessary? Because to make a campaign in networks to promote reading, to send a theater to a people lost from figs to short, to make a night of poetry a year with three hundred activities at a time - which of course you cannot attend simultaneously - or to make a jazz festival, opera or trap in the center of the city, hoping that the neighbors of the suburbs and the excluded neighborhoods will go, not to make culture, is to look for the photo and look for the anecdote. We understand that if it does not integrate, if it does not revitalize, if it does not allow to know the diversity will not make us better people and, therefore, it will be many things, it will probably be a nice anecdote but it will not be culture. Finally, one of the essential democratic functions of culture is that it helps us to know how to listen, it makes us aware that we are not alone, that we are not enough, it discovers other ways of thinking and feeling. Music is the art that most directly contributes to this and it is no coincidence that in the scores also the silences are written. Have you stopped to listen to the very loud silences of towns and cities, of the excluded neighborhoods, of the most rural areas? Are you listening and appreciating the diverse creations of the suburbs? Because there are, but we don't know them. Are you listening to the new artistic movements in rural areas? That there are, too, but I'm afraid they haven't heard. We are going to listen carefully to what they say, but I hope that you, Mr Minister, will also be able to hear what we are bringing. We simply want to be echoed by those who decades ago launched projects from below like La Barraca Lorquiana, recovering the memory of those who were so harshly silenced and adapting to our day the guarantee of a fundamental right, which is the right to culture that will make us free and better people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u179	Thank you very much. The Minister for Education, Culture and Sport then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. You have begun, Your Honor, by making reference to and mentioning an article of the Constitution. I will also mention one, which is Article 2, which recognizes the right to autonomy of nationalities and regions. I'm telling you this because when we talk about culture, we need to do some pedagogy. In this case, culture in Spain is absolutely decentralized, it is a competence - for the most part - of the autonomous communities and the municipalities. Therefore, if we claim autonomy - and I think it is good to do so - we must also say where the competences are resented. Before, the Minister of Finance speaking of municipal competences said that they were municipal competences and that, therefore, the Minister of Finance could not be asked political responsibilities for something that was not within his competence, and I say the same to him, you have spoken to me in your intervention of many competences, for example you have told me of the rural world, you have given importance to the rural world, but that is not the competence of this ministry, I have to tell you clearly, that is the competence of the autonomous community and of the municipalities, but not the ministry. In any case, you were telling me that you wanted an overview and you wanted concrete evidence of how we deal with culture in Spain. You in your question were talking to me about access to culture, that capacity, that possibility of access, and I will gladly detail some of the main measures that make it possible, with that exception that I have told you before. Keep in mind that this is the competence exercised by the ministry, but that this competence shares it, and much so, with the autonomous communities and local corporations. Recently in this House, the Secretary of State for Culture explained the guidelines of the Culture 2020 Plan. That is our goal; therefore, when you tell us: no, you have no project, that you will say, because we have a plan that we are trying to carry out, and also - I want to say it too - with the consensus of the other parliamentary forces, because we understand, first of all, that this is good for everyone and, secondly, that many of these competences will have to be managed, implemented by the autonomous communities or by local corporations. Therefore, it is better to start from a common front, from a common body that we all share in order to carry it out. Let us talk, for example, about beautiful arts and cultural heritage. You referred to the strategy of accessibility to cultural heritage. It is true that in Unesco we are the third country, after China and Italy, that the most monuments have inscribed in the catalogue, this is important, and we will incorporate three more, the Codex Calixtino, the archive of Don Santiago Ramón and Cajal and the General Archive of Simancas. Well, what are we doing there? Strengthen the Museums + Social Plan, which seeks to see museums as an institution open to all citizens regardless of their abilities. We provide it with 360 000 euros for the period 2017 to 2020, and we do it with public and private foundations, because we understand that culture can not only be the goal of a ministry, but also of what we call the instruments of social security. For example, in this Plan Museums + Social we have worked to disseminate the museum contents to a wider audience in a project where the third sector collaborates, which has resulted in a series of accessible materials, such as adapted guide plans and easy-to-read brochures that are available in national museums such as the National Archaeological Museum, the Museum of Suit, the Museum of America, the Museum Casa de Cervantes or the National Museum of Sculpture, among others. The Public Development Plan is also important for our museums - those that are state-owned - because you already know that most of the state-owned ones are managed by the autonomous communities, but we have also allocated a budget line to it. As for facilitating people's access to museums, since 2015, Ministerial Order 868/2015 regulated public visits. And what's it going to be? It collected economic prices, 3 euros the general entrance, 1.5 euros the reduced and very extensive gratuity schemes so that people with greater economic weakness can access them. The order establishes free museums at least four days a month, one per week including Saturday afternoons or Sundays. In addition, it envisages the promotion of joint visits and itineraries that include several museums; for example, there is a project in Madrid called Five Museums, there is another in Toledo, the Museums of Toledo credit card, with a price of 5 euros, which includes the visit to the Creco Museum and the Sephardi Museum, or the Museums of Valladolid credit card, with a price of 5 euros, which includes the visit to the National Museum of Sculpture and the Museum Casa de Cervantes. What else do we do? Well, look, if we get the idea that we have to incorporate what we call civil society into the third sector, we have a specific help line for associations and foundations that help spread the different cultural manifestations. I'll give you the figure for 2017. There have been 479 requests, of which 444 have been answered, which is a very high ratio, with a total budget of EUR 1 400 000. In addition, we have also granted nominative support to very diverse institutions, from the Institute of Gypsy Culture to municipalities, all with the idea of promoting - through local corporations as appropriate or through associations - access to culture. I want to stop at the 2020 Culture Plan. Its objective 3 is to promote a social partnership with culture and focuses particularly on this activity. In this House, in control sessions, I talked about the 'Leer gives you extra lives' campaign. What we do are cross-cutting actions, starting with its declaration as an event of exceptional public interest, which has very interesting fiscal incentives; collaboration with Spanish Radiotelevision or other public and also private televisions; municipal libraries; reinforced collaboration of the book sector; ensuring in the territory of the competence of the ministry, for example - I insist on the territory of the competence of the ministry, because I cannot impose on the autonomous communities anything in this matter - that an hour of reading is devoted to the primary education centers. That is something I can do as Minister of Education in Ceuta and Melilla and I take it to the Sectoral Conference of Education and I set it as an example, but obviously, as I said before, the competences of the Autonomous Communities are what they are. Aid for reading promotion activities for seventy non-profit institutions, which contribute to improving reading rates - we are talking about 900 000 euros -; the collaboration with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces in the Project Animation to Reading María Moliner, for municipalities less than 50 000 inhabitants, with an amount of more than half a million euros. Therefore, you have specific measures here from a very important sector, which is the book sector, which accounts for 0.9% of GDP and is the country's first cultural industry. Invoicing for the year 2016 - which is the latest figures I have - is almost 3% higher than in 2015. With the Autonomous Communities we are also working on the Culture and Citizenship meeting and I hope that it will lead to a white book on the creation, training and development of reading audiences. You have also referred to cinematography, the audiovisual arts. In this legislature we have passed a law on film financing, which has a very majority support from the sector. There was a law before that had the drag problem, and the new funding law, endowed, I think it counts - as I said before - with broad support in the sector. You know that, because I have been told many times, cultural VAT does not exist, there are different cultural industries to which a certain type of VAT applies. When Spain was in a deep economic crisis, with a public deficit of nine points of GDP, measures had to be taken in the tax field and we are reversing them in all sectors, also in the cultural sector. In the General Budgets of the State for the year 2017, the rate of VAT for live public shows has been lowered from 21% to 10%, and I have already announced in this House that in the general budgets for the year 2018 we will lower the rate of VAT for cinema from 21 to 10%. So we made it easier, as I said before, for prices to be cheaper. The National Film Library has also been completely renovated and contributes to very affordable prices. We support the Film Festival, which, as you know, is a few days in which the reduced prices - 2,90 euros - also allow a greater influx. We improve the accessibility of performing arts and music. We subsidize the activity of artistic creation and exhibition centers. We make discount policies, exemptions to facilitate access to the public. We have call for grants under competitive competition in dance, music, theatre and circus, with 977 grants and an amount of 13,838,000 euros in 2016, which represents almost 10% more. The Platea Program is an important program. You used to tell me that you have to get culture out of big cities and that's what the Platea Programme does, which has accumulated 20 million euros in four years and has revitalized cultural programming throughout the state. In 2017, 162 local entities from sixteen autonomous communities, with 293 companies and 889 representations, of which 299 were specifically targeted at the youth and children's public, have been called for assistance. I would also like to point out how the National Library of Spain has played a very important role in public access to culture; more than 360 000 people participated in its cultural activities, more than 100 000 accessed the consultation rooms. Large museums have free slots to access them. Therefore, with all these measures, with all these incentives, we make it easier to access the culture of many people. We have seen it in recent years as well. I believe that part of the difficulties facing culture in Spain were due to the general economic situation. When there is an economic crisis it is obvious that citizens stop spending and also stop spending on culture, unfortunately, but seeing the figures we are checking how in recent times, after the crisis, with economic growth around 3% of GDP, people also consume culture again. I agree with the final words of your speech, when you said that culture not only makes us more free, makes us more critical and makes us happier. I believe absolutely in it. That is why culture is of paramount importance to this People's Party government. That is why, on many of the major issues, we are seeking the agreement of the parliamentary political forces, and I would like, Your Honor, for their attitude to be that of other groups in this House on many issues related to culture, to be a collaborative and constructive attitude. I can't get United We can, despite the goodwill of your spokesman, support any of the proposals we make in this House. I hope that after the interpellation we will change and you will also join that consensus that is necessary in the cultural policies of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u181	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs García Sempere.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u182	Thank you, Madam President. We know that you are doing very well about promotional policy; what we do not know so much is about productive policy. As for some of the issues you have raised, the museum network programme is being implemented, but they have even abandoned the web. They have changed the decree that established museum management at the state level, but the web has abandoned it. Something will have to see the lack of interest. It speaks of municipal and autonomous competences, but the co-responsibility of the ministry is that it has the duty to attend to and agree on the orientation of cultural policies. You have to do this, you have to establish the mechanisms - and I have made it very clear in my speech - to coordinate with the rest of the administrations, whether autonomous or local. To do that is to have a model. You guys have a plan. Having a plan is fine. They have a plan until 2020, and then the world will end? No, no, After 2020 we need the model to give us the guidelines to follow culture in Spain beyond 2020. That's having a model. Having a model also means that it does not change with the governments in office, but that we have guidelines for the state to have a cultural model regardless of who comes to rule. To say some things, they talk about museum plans, but they still don't know it's not taking museums to places where they don't exist. It is about people going to museums, bringing the museums closer to the people who are demanding them and educating the citizens to have that demand, because when we create public the museums of tomorrow are created, which are the ones that will appear fruit of the demand. You talk about that bet has been amazing, but what we know is that the lack of personnel in archives, museums and libraries makes it impossible to attend to people coming to investigate. It is one of the issues that we are usually asked. Companies that were working in Heritage, the third country in number of cultural heritage, have dropped from 273 in 2009 to 120 in 2016, 56% less companies that work in Heritage. I think they're pretty devastating figures. And having a model and not just a plan also implies that, when economic crises come like the one that has come, the cultural fabric is not as affected as it has been seen right now, with a 56% closure. You talk about reading data and promotion plans. You are tweeting to encourage reading, but the reality is that the latest statistics say that 35% of respondents had not read a single book the previous year. I believe that there is also a need to strengthen the issue of libraries and reading data. Over the past ten years, 20 per cent of press buying spaces have been closed. They are, of course, not given to talk about how important and committed this Government is to culture. He talks about the social alliance of culture - the role endures everything - but we want to know the clear budget allocation and the implication and how they intend to propose participation, because if not, we will not be talking about anything really. I could have cited, but I think it has not, the programmes that do exist, within Horizon 2020, for the most deprived areas within the Feder funds and so on. Ministries cannot be Schrödinger's ministries: No, as this is not culture, as this is exactly education or is exactly Fomento, I have nothing to do with it. Man!, they are a single government; you cannot hide, co-responsibility has to be clear. Plans exist and are not being pursued, nothing is being done to enhance agricultural funds for rural development, in addition to the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and programmes within Horizon 2020. That would solve quite a few things in the rural world. I'm finishing up. He said that my group, despite the goodwill of our spokesman - who has it - is not propository. For that spokesman has proposed a number of measures to include in the Culture 2020 Plan and, removing four, the others have been rejected. He has rejected things that he has then had to amend, it is true, on the Observatory for Equality within the area of culture, but they have rejected modifications to the Spanish system of archiving and applying the 1% cultural corresponding to unfinished projects; on reform of artistic teachings and their inclusion in the university; on a plan of reactivation - surprise - of school libraries; on the creation of an audiovisual council and of the information society; measures to promote the mixed financing of culture; the creation of the young bonus and plan of access to cinema. All of that has rejected it. We have all the good will, especially if on the other side someone is listening to us and collecting something from what we say, with all the humility of the world, which the sector poses to us. We would be grateful if, from now on, goodwill would also be reciprocal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u183	To conclude the debate, the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. You said that the Culture 2020 Plan is good in the background. This is the first time that your group has said something positive to me, and I thank you very much for that, and I also think it is right and reflects - I insist - the contribution of all the parliamentary groups. The Government has an obligation to submit a proposal, but it has taken advantage of everyone's contributions and I am grateful for those contributions. I insist on something I told you before, the ministry has in Culture the competences it has, the others are from the autonomous communities. I'll give you an example. The Ministry of Culture has the ownership, of this great investment that has been made in Malaga, the Museum of Customs, the Museum of Fine Arts and the Provincial Archaeological Museum, but the management is of the autonomous community. And I, who have good relations with the autonomous communities, can talk to them but I can't get involved in their management. Then you cannot hold me responsible for any management that occurs in an autonomous community or in a city even if the museum is state-owned, because management is not my competence. That is the system we have, a system with which we can agree or not - it is the one we have - and therefore the responsibility is also clearly compartmentalized, it is not mine. In this country, the autonomous communities have a great deal of cultural competence and so do the municipalities. Therefore, the State cannot be asked to act at all times and in all circumstances because that would break the scope of competence. What I believe is that in recent years, as I have said before, after the end of the crisis, the global figures we have are positive. I have previously referred to that when the general economic situation improves people also consume more, and consume more in what we care about you and me at the moment, which is in culture. From the point of departure from the crisis we see how attendance at museums, for example, has shown an increase of almost 9%. Six museums across Spain have established a historical record of visits, that's fine. There are fifty-three public libraries in the State that manage the autonomous communities. They received in the year 2015 - they are the last figures I have - 19 million visits, of them 4 million through the web pages, which means an increase of almost 4%. The Inaem, so important, had an increase of spectators of 9% in 2016, with an occupation percentage of 85%. This is really good. Moreover, that those theaters that depend on the Inaem have 85% of the seats occupied means, first, that programming is of quality and, secondly, that people appreciate it and that's why it goes. The National Classical Theatre Company and the National Drama Center have grown by 39 and 10 per cent respectively, 987 functions. The National Dance Company has doubled its figures in 2016, reaching an occupation of 96 per cent and the Spanish National Ballet has reached 83 per cent. Therefore, I insist, this means that quality is good and that people appreciate it. We must also congratulate everyone on that. The latest figures for 2017 for the theatres managed by Inaem and Auditorio Nacional de Música, Orquesta y Coro Nacional de España, Young National Orchestra of Spain, Centro Nacional de Dissefusion Musical show an average increase of 5% compared to 2016, reaching almost half a million spectators. Therefore, all these increases show what I said before, that in Spain there is a taste for culture, that in Spain, thanks to the economic possibilities we give, there is greater ease of access to culture and this, in the end, is part of a plan that the Government has and that I am sure they share all its lordships, that is to make culture more accessible, that people can access it. As I said before, I think it is a good way to have satisfactions in life and to be citizens not only more free, but also more critical and knowledgeable. In this we will continue because we believe the line is the right one. Furthermore, in this House we are now working on important issues such as the creator's status and we have also reached important agreements such as fair compensation for private copying. You know that in the past that has led to major debates and right now it seems that the sector agrees with it. I hold my hand so that we continue to work together and continue to make proposals, which are already many on the table. It would be good if, beyond 2020 and who it governs in 2021, we could find points of agreement in this House so that all Spaniards can continue to enjoy this truly exceptional culture of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-22-CD171122.u185	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. It was 12:30 at noon.
