ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Firstly, questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández, Member of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, you, last week, banished here on the vetoes that your Government imposed on Parliament by preventing the normal action of Parliament; forty-five vetoes last week, forty-six already, and one of them, precisely, with regard to non-contributory pensions for older persons who are in elderly residences. - I don't think your government is very proud of that. But you said that they were dedicated to governing, and that is why they cared less about Parliament. For I ask you to tell the citizens - in that government you say - what you are going to do with the budgets, why you have not presented the budgets to date. [[Rumors]] I also ask you to tell us in this Parliament what you are going to do with the constitutional reform to which you have committed yourself, and I also ask you to explain to the citizens the differences that exist in your Government, between the Vice-President and the ministers, when they speak of Catalonia. [[Rumors]] [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] I am going to tell you that in the Socialist Group - so that you do not tell me that if there are no budgets it is because we do not support it - we cannot support their budgets, budgets that present a huge decrease in social spending. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u3	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u4	We're with the worst people. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u6	As for the reform of the Constitution, I will tell you that we are going to support it, we are going to support it because we firmly believe in the constitutional framework and because we believe that a reform that increases the constitutional values contained therein is necessary. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u8	It is precisely for this reason that my group is clear that if Mr Puigdemont accepts legality, accepts the constitutional framework and in that constitutional framework calls for autonomous elections, there is neither political nor legal application of 155. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u9	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u10	You know that the Socialist Party is always with the rule of law, with the Constitution and with the defence of legality, so please explain to the citizens what you are going to do with the budgets, what you are going to do with the Constitution and put order in your government as to what you are going to do with Catalonia. [[applause.-Continue the rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u11	I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, silence, please. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u12	Thank you very much. Mrs Robles, I have come here to answer a question that I was praying in this way: what are the priorities of your Government's action?, and I have suddenly found yourself talking to me about vetoes - a matter that I referred to last week and therefore I will not insist on it -, it talks to me about budgets, about constitutional reform, about your position on Catalonia. He says he can't vote for the People's Party's budgets. I do not know why you cannot vote for them, if you do not know them, therefore it is clear that you make a value judgment before the presentation of the budgets has taken place and after you have reproached us every day that we have not presented them. [[Laughter]] That's right, he says he's going to support the reform of the Constitution, but I don't think anyone in this House has heard what reform of the Constitution you're talking about. And then he tells us a story about Puigdemont that has nothing to do with the question you ask. I will simply tell you that my Government's priorities are - as I said when I presented myself to the investiture debate - to grow and create jobs, and closely linked to that priority are the maintenance and improvement of our welfare state. Today there is also a very important priority, which is to re-establish legality and peaceful coexistence in Catalonia and to guarantee the freedom and rights of all citizens. Those are, therefore, the key priorities of our Government. I would remind you that, fortunately, the economic scene today is much better than a year ago - it is soon a year since the investiture debate -: it is growing to 3.1%, there is a record of exports, the level of unemployed people falls this year by 660 000, the number of participants has risen by 624 000, we have adopted some important measures - some even with their support - such as the minimum wage, the extension of paternity leave, the extension of the Preparation, the State Pact against Gender Violence, and what I care about now is that in Spain the economic recovery continues, that we continue to grow, that we continue to create employment, that we recover legality in Catalonia and, if possible, to reach an understanding on some important issues that we are debating here in the Commission: I am referring to the pact on justice, education, pensions and autonomous financing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u13	Mrs. Robles.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u14	Mr President, perhaps if you did not read the information given to you by your colleagues, you would answer the questions put to you by this parliamentary group. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u16	I don't know what you have against my collaborators, me against yours, nothing. That is why I recommend that you read the data given to you by your collaborators; to prevent them from doing interventions like today's. Thank you very much. [[applause.-Continue the rumors]] - OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE SITUATION BETWEEN THE LAST DEVELOPMENTS IN CATALUONE? [[File number 180/00409]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u17	Quiet, please. Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, also to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u18	Thank you, President. Mr President, in Catalonia we are experiencing very difficult times these days and there are many Catalans who are living uncertainty, sadness, concern, pain, fear even, in the face of the coercion and threats they suffer. I wanted to ask the President of the Government what the Government of Spain is going to do to ensure that the future autonomous elections in Catalonia are free and secure for the citizens; so that there are no coercions to those who are not separatists, no threats to the councillors, deputies, candidates, citizens in general; so that there are no pitfalls - because we have seen five times in the same ballot box those who want to call elections - in short, what the Government of Spain is going to do to ensure that these future elections have all these characteristics.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u20	Mr Rivera, the situation is indeed very serious in Catalonia. First of all, because the Government of the Generalitat and its Parliament have been placed outside the law, and they also say so, and without law, as is known, there is no possible democracy, but instead we move to a de facto situation in which the only law is that of the strongest, and without law there is no respect for the rights of minorities either. Secondly, it is very serious because there has been a break in coexistence and social fracture. And, thirdly, the economic effects, the effects on people's lives and their well-being are also very worrying. The economy and employment are already beginning to notice this situation; we see that there are many companies leaving Catalonia, problems in the financial sector, with deposits, tourism that does not come, and important effects on the economy. So what we have to do is basically two things. First, to restore legality. That is why we have launched, as you know, the procedure of Article 155 of the Constitution, and there, in this restoration of legality, we are planning to call an election within a maximum of six months, which I would like - you too and the Socialist Party, at least before - to hold as soon as possible, with all the guarantees and avoiding a situation as unfortunate as that of the referendum we have been living in in recent times; elections, of course, according to what the current legality and the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime says. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Rivera, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u22	Mr President, the sooner the elections are, the sooner we can cast Puigdemont, with votes, which in democracy is the way to do it. I trust in victory, Mr. President. I believe that today there are many more brave Catalans who have said enough, who have already stopped the silence and who want to go out on the street but want to go vote at the polls, but want to go vote freely, Mr President. There are public offices in Catalonia that declare non-grateful members of this House or candidates in the elections, and that is not permissible. There cannot be a single town in Spain where a free Spanish citizen cannot go when he wants to, and that must be avoided. We cannot receive permanent coercion and threats from those who are not separatists; we cannot have a Generalitat that organizes fights with illegal referendums such as 9 November or 1 October. That's why I was asking you this question. I am concerned that the Socialist Party does not want the same, because there are councillors, deputies and public officials from its parties who will have to campaign alongside many deputies and candidates from other parties. Surely you will want security, as we do, surely you will want the result to be guaranteed, and there will be no pitfall. Is the Puigdemont sedition committee really going to be in charge of organizing the elections or are we going to have the courage and serenity to organize free and fair elections? I am convinced that these elections are the only possible way out in democracy, but the result has to be valid, accepted by the whole world and homologable to any democracy. Of course I, of Mr Junqueras - whom I saw him counting votes on 9 November sitting at a table - do not trust, of Mr Puigdemont do not trust, of the sedition committee do not trust, and I want Spain, as a State, to guarantee the outcome of these elections in order to be able to throw - by voting - the sedition committee and have a decent government that will shake hands between Catalans and give its hand to the rest of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u23	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera, as you know, I agree substantially with you in this matter and I also agree that holding urgent elections is a wise decision. However, there is something that is very important: Recovering legality, because everything we are currently living in Catalonia, all the situations that are occurring have only one origin: the liquidation of the law. It is precisely because the law has been liquidated that there is now no more way out than the elections; precisely because the law has been liquidated social cohesion, trust among people, coexistence and we see problems of all kinds that come even, as you know better than I, into the family sphere; and precisely because the law has been liquidated the companies of Catalonia are leaving, we have to lower the growth forecast for Catalonia for the next year, also for the whole of Spain, and employment and welfare data - if we continue in this line - can start to fall, breaking the trend of economic recovery that we have experienced in recent years. So... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN TARDà I COMA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS THE RESPONSE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT TO THE POSITION OF THE CATALAN INSTITUTIONS? [[File number 180/00397]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u26	He also asked the President of the Government of Mr Joan Tardà i Coma of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u27	Mr President, in answer to your last words, I obviously ask you directly that we had called for dialogue, and your answer was 155 to become de facto President of Catalonia to appoint your Government, castrate the Parliament of Catalonia, disqualify political opponents, dynamite the Catalan educational model, TV3, etc., and of course call elections when you are most interested. It is not the first time that self-government has been liquidated: Philip V did it, Franco did it; it is true that they directly, and you through 155, with the approval of the Socialist Party and the sponsorship of Philip VI; but denying dialogue and turning the fascist slogan of 'A for them' into a political strategy, you do what you do is to further increase the emotional abyss between the Kingdom of Spain and Catalonia. Mr Rajoy, you are still in time: Stop the repression, withdraw the 155, you have no right to make Catalan citizens suffer whether we are independent or not. What crime have we committed? Is it a crime that, as free men and women of the twenty-first century, we have empowered ourselves to decide freely and democratically our future, as other modern societies have done? Catalonia, Mr Rajoy, is a peaceful people, Catalonia is a nation without state, without army, without its own judicial system; moreover, a simple decree by Mr Montoro has ended its financial autonomy. But we are not a defenceless people. If you persist in repressing rather than seducing, if you persist in repression, the same people who civically and peacefully went out on the street to heroically defend the ballot boxes will go out on the street to civically and peacefully defend the legitimate Government and the institutions of self-government. The history of Catalonia, Mr Rajoy, which you should know, supports these words. Notice, in 1943 the world's first territorial power, Britain, kept 130,000 pacifist citizens following Mahatma Ghandi in jails. After three years, India was independent. Conclusion, Mr Rajoy: there are never prisons for so many Democrats. Remove 155. Negotiation, dialogue and mediation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà, I wonder what the Government's response is to the position of the Catalan institutions. It tells me that the Catalan institutions have called for dialogue and that my response has been 155, and that is true. You know the answer very well; it is the only possible, the only possible. I fulfil my obligation by launching 155, and I do so in the face of contempt for our laws, our Constitution and the Statute of Catalonia, and in the face of contempt for millions of citizens of Catalonia who see how their Government has liquidated the law. And as I said before - and I will repeat it to the point of satiety - where there is no law, no democracy, no dialogue, but there is the will of the strongest against the weakest who see their individual rights curtailed. The aim of raising 155 is to restore legality - I suppose you will want to live in a country where the law is applied and, if not, say it -, to bet on the coexistence that has been broken up in Catalonia and to tackle the economic consequences that your decisions are causing. This is an exceptional decision, that of 155, and since it is exceptional we want it to last little and, therefore, the end is the call for an election; not when I want it, but when it can be held normally. I would like to make some considerations in connection with the dialogue. I will tell you with absolute frankness what I, as President of the Government, have experienced in recent times. The only dialogue I have had with Mr Puigdemont, the only thing Mr Puigdemont wanted to negotiate with me were the terms and deadlines for Catalonia's independence. As President of the Government of Spain - you know that with good reason - I cannot negotiate the terms and deadlines of Catalonia's independence, nor the independence itself. Mr Puigdemont did not want to talk about anything else, he did not want to go to the conference of presidents, he did not want to talk about autonomous financing, he did not want to integrate his Government into the working groups of autonomous financing - as did the rest of the autonomous communities of Spain - he did not want to come to the Congress of Deputies. Let us see if you will now come to the Senate to present your proposals to the citizens as a whole. And I will tell you more, Mr Tardà, in Spain we have been talking for forty years; dialogue in the municipalities, dialogue in the parliaments, dialogue here. Where dialogue is not possible it is in the Catalan Parliament, which has closed it, and where the opposition cannot exercise its role because the majority has decided to do so. That's the dialogue you want. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u30	Thank you very much. - of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which expresses to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation: what are the priorities that he will have in the Council of Human Rights of the United Nations? [[File number 180/00399]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u31	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. Question by Mrs Pilar Rojo Noguera, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u32	Thank you very much. Minister, on October 16, Spain was elected member of the UN Human Rights Council for the period 2018-2020. For the second time in its history, Spain has the opportunity to sit in the main organ of the United Nations in the promotion and protection of fundamental rights, following its presence already in the previous period 2011-2013. The Spanish candidacy - I would like to highlight it here - has been a candidacy that came without opposition and that obtained the support of 180 of the 193 Member States of the United Nations in the vote held in New York, a high number of votes that, in the words of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs himself, are clear, transparent numbers that say everything, and there is still any comment because they speak for themselves. A success, Minister, which we from our parliamentary group wish to acknowledge and congratulate you on. For Spain this election constitutes a recognition and an expression of confidence of the international community towards our country, but also - it is clear - the commitment of the public authorities and Spanish society to human rights. At the internal level, we know that the defence and protection of fundamental rights and freedoms has become an inspiring principle and a cross-cutting axis of government decisions, and that at the international level the defence and promotion of human rights is one of the priorities of foreign policy and the action of Spanish cooperation. You know that, as an elected member of the Council, Spain assumes the responsibility to contribute to improving the effectiveness of the international protection of all human rights, and here I would like to stress that our country is already a benchmark in some areas of action such as the abolition of the death penalty - whose International Commission is based in Spain - or we are also promoters of new rights, such as the human right to water or the human right to sanitation, already recognized by the international community. Minister, we do not doubt that for the Government of Spain human rights are a priority, a growing dimension of our foreign policy and, therefore, we know that it will be even more important in this period 2018-2020, so we ask you: What are the priorities that Spain will have within the UN Human Rights Council? Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u33	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u34	Thank you, President; thank you, Your Honor. As you have recalled, Spain was elected a member of the Human Rights Council last day with 180 votes out of 186 cast, a very revealing result of the support of our candidacy and surpassing even those of other countries with an excellent record in the field of human rights, such as Australia. This is the result of a human rights protection policy which, as you have said, is one of our priorities and which we have also defended during our stay in the Security Council, by strengthening the relationship between the Security Council, the Human Rights Council and the High Commissioner. Increasing the effectiveness of that council will be one of our major objectives. Among the areas, we are clear that the abolition of the death penalty, protection on the basis of gender and sexual orientation, the rights of persons with disabilities, the human right to safe drinking water and sanitation, the issue of business and human rights, and finally and very important, support for human rights defenders will be the lines of action for our participation. That participation, which, by the way, is the only thing that it does is to continue the experience we have already had in the area of the death penalty - in this regard you have acknowledged that the seat of the secretariat of the International Commission is in Madrid -; one of the international congresses - the V - was also held in Madrid in 2013; in the area of gender and, in particular, on women, space and security we have done a great deal of work and, finally, in water and health protection, together with Germany, we have also had great initiatives. Therefore, continuity, but it also highlights our firm commitment and experience in the field of human rights, which, as your honor has recalled, is one of the main priorities of our foreign policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u35	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT IS THE POSITION OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE OPPORTUNITY OF ENTERING A DIALOGUE ON CHANGES PENDING IN THE TERRITORIAL ORGANIZATION OF THE STATE? [[File number 180/00403]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u36	Question to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Adriana Lastra Fernández, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Since a part of the Catalan Parliament decided to repeal the Constitution, the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy, close the Parliament and replace self-government with chaos in that community, we have not stopped hearing about dialogue. - Today again in this House. Having provoked an unprecedented crisis of coexistence in that autonomous community, the secessionist, independenceist bloc now speaks to us about dialogue, but about a dialogue on the forms of independence, not of a real and sincere dialogue; a dialogue that, in addition, aims to exclude the whole of Spanish society from a crucial decision for the future of all. The dialogue in which we Socialists believe is that of this House, within the framework of the Constitution, in the Commission for the Evaluation and Modernisation of the Autonomous State. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, at the beginning of the Commission's work, I ask you: What is the Government's position on the possibility of initiating a dialogue on the pending changes? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u38	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, you are well aware of the position of the Government, your President said on 11 October. We will open with you and participate actively in this Commission for the assessment and modernisation of the autonomous state. Indeed, the parliamentary group supporting the Government has already communicated its representatives, as has its group and the Citizens' Group. This Government has always been prepared for dialogue and, moreover, we understand that whatever the position of each one - we have our own - is in this House, with respect for the law, with respect for the Constitution and with respect for the rules of play where the great affairs of the country have to be decided. Here, this is where dialogue really resides. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lastra.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u41	Thank you, Madam President. We understand that the Evaluation Commission - I take this opportunity to thank the groups of the House who have already anticipated their participation - is the only possible forum for dialogue at this time; it is the only real and, moreover, legitimate forum for dialogue that has been built to resolve this conflict. That is why we are asking the Government, but we are also asking the whole House, all the parliamentary groups, for a genuine and generous, non-exclusive, dialogue effort; for vetoes to be forgotten; we cannot be constantly appealing to dialogue and then rejecting it when it is articulated here in the seat of national sovereignty. Where better than in our Parliament? The Constitution is not unfulfilled, it is reformed, as the majority decides, not as some would like, not as everyone would like. That is the basis of the rule of law and the democratic system, and the ultimate basis of our presence here in this House. That is why I take the opportunity to ask everyone, especially those parliamentary groups closest to the President of the Generalitat, to speak with him, to return to the constitutional order, to return to compliance with the Statute of Autonomy, to convene autonomous elections and thus paralyze 155. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u42	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, we share with you the defence of the democratic and rule of law state and the defence of the Constitution. Dialogue must be preceded by that return to legality, those rules of the game that allow us all to dialogue on an equal footing in this House. We are going to participate actively in that Commission. We understand that we will be right if we create premises for our work, always bear in mind that in this evaluation of the self-government of our diverse Spain it will be much more fruitful if we respect the equality of all Spaniards, if we consider that the financing of our autonomous state is also the financing of the welfare and service state of 40 million Spaniards. We will be right if we work not for a model to seventeen, but for a model of coexistence of forty-seven million Spaniards. I do not think that the changes have to be simply flying targets for those who are on the road to independence and never conform, but it has to be a reinforcement of the framework that we all share with the Spaniards, and to highlight coordination, cooperation and constitutional loyalty. We must always bear in mind that we must unite more among all, that we must banish unilaterality and imposition, that everyone has to manage his or her competences also by thinking about whether he or she does harm or benefit to others, and that in the end, always, the general interest of all Spaniards must prevail in the face of the political selfishness of some. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u44	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON JOSEP VENDRELL GARDENES, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT THE SUPRESSION OF THE CATALUONE AUTHORGOVERNMENT IS THE SOLUTION TO THE MAJOR POLITICAL CRISIS OF 1978? [[File number 180/00412]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u45	Question also addressed to the Vice-President of the Government of the Member of Parliament, Mr Josep Vendrell Gardeñes, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u46	Madam Vice-President, do the Government think that the suppression, the liquidation of Catalonia's self-government is the solution to the biggest political crisis since 1978?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u47	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Vendrell, I would like to make two points to the formulation of your question. First of all, what you call the most serious political crisis since 1978 has caused it by Mr Puigdemont for his unilateral action and his open disobedience to the law and to the judgments of the courts, to the law and to the justice, which is what equals us all. I hope even if I don't say so, I'll make it clear. Secondly, neither the Government nor the Senate are going to suspend any self-government or autonomy, what we do is to restore Catalonia's self-government for legality, and above all to rescue from the illegality the autonomous institutions that have ceased to represent all Catalans and serve only independence. I hope you do not also serve independence with your question. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u49	Mr. Vendrell, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u50	Let's take a look at your solutions. In 2006, with the new statute, they thought that the best solution was to collect signatures against them and bring them to a properly manipulated Constitutional Court. From 2010 onwards, they disregarded the majority's demands in favour of the right to decide. In 2012 they opposed any kind of tax pact. In 2014, they rejected a referendum. Their solutions have led us to the greatest crisis in the constitutional system. Now the government, with the complicity of the PSOE - those of the surgical and moderate intervention - and the shameful support of the PSC, intend to liquidate forty years of self-government. They seek to recover the rule of law by violating the Constitution and the Statute by ceasing the President and the entire Government indefinitely, by liquidated the separation of powers and the right to political participation. They want him to return to order when the greatest stage of instability and constitutional chaos has occurred during his term of office. They intend to give confidence to the citizens of Catalonia by moving the headquarters of the Generalitat to Madrid. We have repeatedly said that the declaration of independence would be a mistake, because it also excludes a large part of Catalan society. But you, instead of seeking a political exit, want to do an act of collective humiliation with 155, to the extent that the manipulators who degrade Spanish Television now want to occupy TV3, those responsible for the repression of October 1 will be able to direct the Mossos, the authors of the economic drowning attempt of Catalonia want to lead the department of economy, and if the 155 finally applies the People's Party, with 8% of the votes, will be able to govern Catalonia and will do so with the absolute majority, not of Parliament, but of the Senate. I assure you that it generates much more order, stability and economic confidence to dialogue and negotiate; ending Catalonia's autonomy is to put democracy in serious crisis throughout Spain. You have failed strenuously, you are responsible for the Catalan issue in the government, you are going from mistake to mistake, and it is not the solution is the problem. That is why we demand you, Vice-President, to resign; by the way, we also ask you to return to order and respect the rule of law... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u51	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u52	...and clean up your corruption plots. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u53	Madam Vice President, come in. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u54	Mr Vendrell, I see that you argue here that the application of Article 155 is unconstitutional and contrary to the rule of law. Given his background, welcome to the defence of the Constitution, even if only to attack the Government. [[Applauds]] Mr Vendrell, that Constitution which you are quoting today is a Constitution which you have ignored when your parliamentary group has served as an alibi for the secessionists, that Constitution which you claim to defend today has been ignored by you when you were holding a referendum on self-determination, which is not only openly contrary to the Constitution, but is an attack on the equality of all Spaniards, as your party-mate Mr Jordi Solé Tura said, because there is nothing more contrary to the equality of all Spaniards than to allow one to decide and the other to comply. Finally, that Constitution that you ignore has been completely skipped by the Generalitat of Catalonia, which has imposed unilaterality and disobedience. You now come to talk about democracy, the Constitution and self-government, and I remind you that you did not run to the Constitutional Court to defend the Constitution when on September 6 and 7 in the Parliament of Catalonia the Law of Referendum and the Law of Legal Transition repealed the Constitution, autonomy and passage the democratic rights of your group. Do you know what you said then, Mr. Vendrell? Let me tell you. He said: What happened in Parliament is a democratic degradation, but the blame for the situation lies with the PP. [[Laughter]] Therefore, the parameter for you of the Constitution, democracy and the rule of law is all that your parliamentary group can use to attack this government, the People's Party, citizens and the Socialist Group when they support us. Yes, you are very clear about the Constitution and the rights of the Spaniards! Thank you very much, Mr. Vendrell. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u55	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF TXEMA GUIJARRO GARCIA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT DESIGNED TO REFORM THE CONSTITUTION? [[File number 180/00411]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u56	Question by Mr Txema Guijarro García, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, also to the Vice-President. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u57	Thank you. Vice-President, to what extent is the Government prepared to reform the Constitution? In particular, what elements of the Spanish territorial model do your lordship think should be reformed? Would you accept the constitutional shielding of unrecognized social rights today, such as the right to housing, to decent work? Above all, Madam Vice-President, what mechanisms do you envisage to summon citizens and involve them in this announced reform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u58	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. I just answered Mrs. Lastra. What very powerfully draws my attention to your question is that you are not yet clear on the answer, because for a long time you have said that the Autonomous State Assessment Commission was an unreplaceable issue, and you are now asking the President to give time to see whether or not you decide to be part of it. I think it would be good for me to clarify this also in this sitting. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Guijarro, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u61	Thank you very much. It should be you who submit to a control, but I will answer your question. [[Applauds]] It is well known that PSOE's support for the implementation of 155 has been matched by this intended concession: constitutional reform. You have promised to unravel the jar of the essences to make the PSOE swallow with this indigestive pill, that is, we are on the verge of a manu militari intervention of the Catalan political institutions and you now come out of immobilism in which you have been installed for years to discuss a reform of the Constitution. Allow us, Madam Vice-President, to be extremely suspicious. I also wanted to address the PSOE bench. Isn't it also suspicious of you? Moreover, you know better than we do that any modification of the autonomous model in a federal sense obliges you to alter, in addition to Title VIII, the Preliminary Title of the Constitution, which refers us to Article 168. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u62	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u63	Do you really believe that the People's Party, that this government is willing to activate Article 168 and call for a constituent process throughout the country? Maybe the vice president can get us out of that doubt. However, that is exactly what should happen if both parties really wanted to face a constitutional reform and update the text to the current times. You should already know at this point that you are not going to fix the immense challenges that our country has ahead, not only in the territorial, but also in the social, the economic or the ecological, putting sheete and painting in a Madrid office to the Constitution, much worse now, at hammering, while you are about to take to the assault Barcelona. This country does not need a state of emergency; it needs more democracy, more dialogue, more negotiation, and above all it needs more ballot boxes, more people. There is a whole generation of Spaniards and Spaniards, a clear majority, who did not vote in 1978, and even those who did now vote call for changes, real changes. Perhaps if you stop now the noise of the machine you have set in motion, you listen to that cry. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u64	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. You will not deny me, Mr Guijarro, that this is an absolutely democratic Parliament; you come to control the government and then also the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Mr Guijarro, I think you have never wanted a debate on constitutional reform. What you have is an absolutely corrosive project of all State institutions at the service of your ideology. And I say this to you because what you intend to do is to replace the Constitution with the letter-argumentary of Mr.Paul Iglesias: the epistle of Fr.Paul to his fellow members where what he does is to attack all the institutions of the State. And why should I tell him? Because he does not save any of his party, except one: the president of the Generalitat and his secessionist process, from which he says that the problem is not a question of illegality; it is that he simply has some defect of illegitimacy that of the declaration of independence. It is very powerful for me, Mr Guijarro, how you conceive of the territorial project of Spain. It happens to me like many colleagues in your group: I don't understand. Mr. Pablo Iglesias says that Spain will be plurinational or not - folio 5, paragraph 6 - that is, Spain will be the Spain that wants Mr. Pablo Iglesias or there will be no Spain. Is that what they want to say to the Spaniards? Mr Guijarro, I think you should express a number of clear questions in this House. Do you consider that there must be popular sovereignty, that all Spaniards are equal, that all Spaniards have the right to decide about our country or just a few? In that plurinational Spain, how many nations are there? What is the difference between being a nation and not being? Are they nations with state or without state or way of being state? I do not think that these are minor issues, Mr Guijarro, for what is omitted in this House. I do not know whether a reform of the Constitution will be possible - it will depend on whether we are able to build a consensus - but I say it very clearly that for the government and for the group that supports it Spain will be and is what the Spaniards want; what Mr. Iglesias wants too, but not only what Mr. Iglesias wants. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MAJOR RAFAEL PERALES, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMONLY POSSES-EN-MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT PURSUANT TO COMPLY WITH THE COMMITTEE'S RECOMMENDATIONS OF ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND CULTURAL RIGHTS OF THE UNITED NATIONS, RESPONDING TO COMMUNICATION NUMBER 5/2015 OF 20 JUNE 2017, ON THE RIGHT TO THE LIVING OF DISLOYED PERSONS AND ACCESS TO PUBLIC LIVING? [[File number 180/00410]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u66	Question to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Rafael Mayoral Perales, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u67	Minister, what steps does the Government intend to take to implement the recommendations of the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, corresponding to Communication No. 5/2015 of 20 June 2017 on the right to housing for displaced persons and access to public housing? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u68	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister, I beg you, please, silence. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u69	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you know that housing is a policy of co-responsibility between the state - certainly - the autonomous communities and the municipalities, and we, when we reply to the United Nations in connection with this communication, will report on what we are doing: working to ensure that the most disadvantaged people have access to housing, public housing, and working to create economic conditions for employment, economic recovery in Spain, and therefore the right to housing for all citizens is guaranteed. That is what we will do with the United Nations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Mayoral, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u71	Minister, you know better than I that our country is part of an international system of protection of human rights unfortunately - economic, social and cultural rights are also part of that system of protection - and that our State has ratified the optional protocol of Fidesc, which makes the recommendations of the United Nations and this opinion have the force of resolution, which must be implemented by the State. They become obligations in compliance with articles 96 and 10 of the Spanish Constitution. I understand that you have difficulties in understanding that social rights are part of the hard core of a social and democratic state of law, but that is so; the law must be complied with and you in this matter are out of the law. I will give you some information: 3,400,000 empty dwellings in our country. The DESC Committee itself - I would like to read some things, because I know that what we say, that we are anti-systems, is of little interest to you, but I understand that the resolutions of the DESC Committee, which are binding on the Spanish State, are good to know each other - says: The State has not explained to the committee the reasons why the Madrid regional authorities, for example the Ivima, sold part of the public housing park to investment companies, reducing the availability of the same, despite the fact that the number of public housing available annually in Madrid was considered to be less than the demand. That is, you, contrary to the needs of our people, which is to expand the public park for rent, what you did was to sell it to the vulture funds; that is, what you did was to sell our country to pieces to the vulture funds. In addition, what the DESC Committee is asking us is something very simple: that we must comply with the legislation, as this Congress has proposed, and that we must put an end to forced evictions without a housing alternative because it is a violation of human rights. That implies a change in legislation in our country to stop human rights violations. Minister, as the poet said: You know better than anyone the law that bitters the countries; you, hard on our people, why with others are you so servile? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u72	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u73	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we are going to inform the United Nations of our full conviction on social rights and international treaties, because we have done so and have believed it. We have suspended launches for particularly vulnerable groups, we have created a code of good practice and a Social Housing Fund that has benefited more than 87 000 families, a Housing Plan has been maintained that has provided rental aid to more than 100 000 people and 70 000 housing purchase aid. We are therefore fully committed to the right to housing, and in particular to the most needy. What we are not going to report to the United Nations, Your Honor, is that, although it is true that here in Spain there are things to improve and we are going to work for it, there are people who speculate with public housing; we are not going to report that there are people who do not pay the rent of public housing or that there are people who do business with the rent of tourism; of that you know a lot and at best it is you who can report at the United Nations. [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mr. Majoral Perales shows a document]] Whenever we have a debate about what we have to do you have problems with the law. When they can stand on the side of the Constitution, they stand on the side of the separatists; when they can stand on the side of the victims, they stand on the side of that man of peace who is Mr. Otegui; when they can vote for an agreement or a pact of gender-based violence, they abstain. [[Protests]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you have real problems knowing where social rights really lie. In any case, Mr. Mayoral, you have a hand in Madrid City Hall, do you know what you could do? [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u74	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u75	To tell Mrs Carmena that those contracts she has given Kinema society, which you well know, dedicate them to social housing and at best with that can give rehousing to the affected family. [[Protests.- Mrs. Montero Gil gives herself several pats on the cheek with her right hand]] [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause.-Protests.-Mr. Mayor Perales again shows a document]] - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO DEPUTY, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DOES THE REDUCTION OF THE SOCIAL GAST RECEIVED FROM THE BUDGETARY PLAN REMITTED TO BRUSSELS APPROACH? [[File number 180/00405]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u76	This is a question now addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain silent, and if you do not leave the Chamber. Question by Mr Pedro Saura García, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, do you think the reduction in social spending in line with the Budget Plan sent to Brussels for 2018 is appropriate? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u78	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Saura, it does not seem appropriate to me because there is no reduction in social expenditure in the budgetary plan sent to Brussels in mid-October. The figures are very clear and very clear. A forecast is sent for 2018 that the health expenditure under heading 07 will be 70,804 million euros, and in 2016 there were 67,578 million euros. In education there is an increase from 44,640 million to 46,688 million, where is the reduction? And in social protection, which is pensions, which is dependency, which is disability protection, it rises from 188 154 million to 197 158 million. Do you want to tell me, Mr Saura, what problem does your parliamentary group have with a budget projection that it does is to increase social spending? And above all, stop making claims that they are not accurate, but that they are causing confusion to Spanish society. These figures are rising in social spending, and in that sense, as your spokesman has begun today's parliamentary session calling for General State Budgets, it is incumbent on the Socialist Group in this House to sit with the Government to see the contents of the social spending of the next General State Budgets, as it has done with other groups in this House, and we will soon have budgets that will ensure an increase in social spending for next year, as is happening during these last years. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Saura, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Montoro, you've already pulled out the tax triplet you're carrying in, you've already come back with the traps. Look, how are international comparisons made? How is compliance with the public deficit required? In terms of GDP. For in terms of GDP, in 2011 our country's social spending was 28% and you want to put it at 26% next year and 25% in 2020, that's what the update of the fiscal stability programme says, that's what you say, Mr Montoro, the budgetary plan and the spending ceiling, so that in social spending we will have a new educational expenditure in our country just as we were twenty-five years ago, Mr Montoro. [[Applauds]] That is why your fiscal and budgetary model is incompatible with the model of the Socialist Party, mainly because for you social spending is losing weight in national wealth, that is the difference; and fundamentally what shows is that for you the crisis was an excuse, for you ideology is to have minimal social spending, and the right in our country has not understood that economic growth does not reach the social majority of our country, that there is no social progress, that there is a new social class in our country that is precarious. And that is why we need more than ever social spending, more than ever the welfare state and more than ever a fair fiscal policy, Mr Montoro. That is why we do not understand and do not share that you are financing economic growth with inequality, we do not believe that you are financing it with justice, we do not understand it and we will not share it, through your fiscal policy and through your labour policy. For that economic policy, for that fiscal policy and for that budgetary policy, it has neither our endorsement nor our vote nor the vote to support the General Budgets of the State. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u82	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u83	Thank you, Madam President. What the crisis has been is the government's excuse for creating employment, which is the main source of equal opportunities for Spanish citizens. Secondly, what he has done in Spain has been to grow in social spending. And thirdly, what I invite the Socialist Party is to lower itself from its topics; that we are a minority government, that what they have is the opportunity, with a minority government, to negotiate the content of the General Budgets of the State; what they have is the opportunity for the autonomous communities of Spain, which are the ones that budget spending on education, health and much of social protection, to have with the new General Budgets of the State for next year... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO ENSUR THE SAFETY AND RIGHTS OF ALL CATALANS BEFORE THE LAST DEVELOPMENTS? [[File number 180/00408]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u85	Questions now addressed to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Gutiérrez Vivas, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u86	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, at the moment when there are two situations that we are going to describe to you now, when autonomous elections are going to be convened in Catalonia almost immediately, let me tell you that there are two issues that make the situation not normal. One of them is the serious social fracture that exists in Catalan society; a fracture that is causing a tremendous division between this society and a State Security Forces and Corpses that - as we talked about yesterday - have to ensure that these elections take place freely, that they take place fairly, and that they are equal for all, but a State Security Forces and Corpses that are in unfortunate conditions - as we commented yesterday and had the opportunity to dialogue here - and that, as we saw yesterday on a public television, they are even sleeping in campsites, Minister. Yesterday we saw that there are State Security Forces and Corpses, in particular National Police, who are sleeping in a campsite. In view of this situation I would like to ask you, what means does the Government intend to use to ensure an electoral campaign, an election day and results that have full guarantees for all Catalans, Minister? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u87	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u88	Thank you very much, President. Mr Gutiérrez, I would like to encourage your calmness, because I am convinced that when the elections are called, if institutional normality has been restored, it will be possible to hold them with all the guarantees, both from the point of view of legality and also from the point of view of the rights and protection of the same and of the freedoms of all those who want to run for elections. I can assure you that from the government we have taken and will continue to take all the measures envisaged in the constitutional sphere and within the framework of the law, but it is also true that we have done so within the scope of our own competences, because we have to be very scrupulous. I also tell you that the Government has responded from the outset to the challenge and threat of democracy, the rule of law, freedom and security of every Catalan and Spanish citizen. And you know what I'm saying? That was the fault of an irresponsible Catalan government. All the measures we have taken will continue to be taken and will be completed with all those that are necessary. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Gutierrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u90	Thank you, Minister. You tell me about being calm; you tell me that there will be a space of democratic normality; but let me tell you that I find it difficult to have a space of democratic normality when, I insist, our State Security Forces and Bodies cannot do the work with the dignity they require. I think the most important thing when a public official is going to do a job, which is difficult and is doing it for the safety of all Catalans, is that he can exercise it with dignity; and it is difficult to work with dignity when one is sleeping or resting in places that are not properly conditioned, when they are overcrowded or when they do not have adequate food. That is not a space to be able to work with dignity, Minister, and allow me to say so. Are we going to recover institutional normality? Right; but the normal day-to-day work of those who have to ensure that our State Security Forces and Bodies can truly secure free elections, can guarantee those proper election days, is very difficult to achieve if they are not able to work with dignity. I think that's the most important thing right now. And that, Minister, has not yet told us how you will resolve it, and it gives me the feeling that your Government does not have an adequate plan for our State Security Forces and Bodies to work with dignity. They don't have it, he hasn't introduced it to us; he hasn't told us anything. Today still and I hope that in the next few days you will be kind enough to tell us all the Spaniards how you intend to guarantee it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u91	Thank you very much. He's got one minute and fifty-four seconds left, not two thirty, because the clock hasn't gone well. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u92	Mr Gutiérrez, I can assure you that the State Security Forces and Bodies are now occupying different locations in Catalonia. They are, it is true, sharing different establishments, each of a kind. But it is true that all that we have committed ourselves to doing with them has been fulfilling it. We have been fulfilling our obligations to ensure that they are in the right places, because I do not know who you are talking to, but I have spoken to hundreds of members of the security forces that we have there and have moved me as they are being served by their leadership and by the obligations that the Government had assumed with them. I trust the State Security Forces and Corpses. They are very well cared for and firmly committed to helping with the Government to restore legality, to ensure institutional neutrality, which is what we need to achieve, to maintain public services and economic growth, and to ensure the rights and freedoms of everyone there, so that they can freely exercise all rights. I would like to convey to you the will to cooperate, that we are all united, that we have a firmness to be able among all to regain the constitutional framework again in Catalonia, so that normality is that ability that we have to achieve among all in order to comply with the law, that is what has to be fulfilled, and that we do it in the best possible way, that we end the rift and the division of society, that, Mr Gutiérrez, it is true that it exists there, but not the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA GONZALEZ VERACRUZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO RESOLVE THE SITUATION ESTABLISHED IN THE MUNICIPY OF MURCIA BY THE ERRONEAL DECISIONS TAKEN FOR THE AVE'S VENUE? [[File number 180/00406]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u94	Questions now to the Minister for Development. Question by Mrs María González Veracruz, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in Murcia, the seventh city of Spain, we have an unprecedented social problem. The underground is not today's thing, it's been a struggle for decades, but there was a turning point, the 2006 convention led by the socialist government and signed by the city council and the autonomous community with an absolute majority of the People's Party. From that moment until now you have shown yourself not to believe in the underground and you have thought you could fool the bats over and over again. Just a little bit. It took three years with an absolute majority in Murcia City Council to modify the General Urban Planning Plan in order to comply with this agreement in 2006. The mobilizations have had no precedent, they have been uninterrupted; more than forty days mobilizations with more than fifty thousand batons in the streets, of all colors, also many voters of the People's Party. You will have them here on Saturday at the door of the Ministry of Development. There have been so many lies and so much manipulation that you just have to take a walk through the hemerotecs. Valcárcel, in 2001, wrongly compromised the arrival of the AVE by Alicante and said they would arrive at the same time. False. Sixteen years later, the AVE is not yet in the Murcia Region. Mr. Bernabé told us that we would take the grapes in 2015 at the AVE. False. Mrs. Pastor told us that she would arrive in 2016 and be buried. False. That is why, because in my land the People's Party is the party of the lie, not only for the EVA, but for so many other things, I ask you for guarantees, I ask you to tell me how exactly it will solve the situation that only your party has generated in my city. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u96	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs González, two kinds of decisions have been made about the arrival of high speed in Murcia. First, his party, which was in a double sense: he promised the arrival of high speed to Murcia in 2014 and promised the burial of Murcia. They did nothing for the arrival of high speed and did not bury a single linear centimeter. The other decision, which was the arrival of high-speed to Murcia, has been made by this Government and the previous Government, and will be completed in four months. By the end of February or the beginning of March, the works of the arrival of high speed to Murcia and the burial of Murcia, whose works begin on November 15, will have been completed in just twenty days. You value which of the two decisions is the right one and which is the wrong one. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Maroto Aranzábal: All right!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u98	Mrs. González, come in. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u99	Minister, what I value is not the words. Theirs are empty, because they have zero credit; and I don't say it alone, even Juan Bravo, president of ADIF, says it in the minutes of the Murcia High Speed society. What we need are guarantees, therefore, say clearly today when we are going to know the comprehensive underground project; when it arrives in Tiñosa; when it arrives at Carmen station; if in the end it will arrive - as it has to be - to Nonslemmas, but, above all, compromise today with the bats, because even all the parties of the City Council of Murcia have asked him not to continue to divide our city and to obtain the exception that is possible by law so that the steps at the level are not suppressed as long as the works are provisional. Acts, minister, and not empty and hollow words, as you have been doing... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u100	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u101	Thank you, President. Mrs Gonzalez, you are very lost: they are neither projects nor proposals, but there is a construction company that is there running the first 530 linear metres of underground. There's a construction company that some people don't let work - that's true - and I think it's amazing that you agree with that. And, secondly, you should be aware of the complementary project that will allow you to expand the underground another 580 meters, because the day after tomorrow - since you ask me when - on Friday, this complementary project for the underground of 1100 linear meters is approved. As for the project that will unite the Carmen station with Barriomar, which completes the 4 kilometers - therefore, 606 million euros in underground -, we will finish it at the end of the year and we will bid it in the first quarter of 2018. Those are facts - they are not promises - and that reflects the work we are doing from the government. [[Mrs González Veracruz: What about the steps at the level?]] That is a real reality and not what you are transferring, but you have the opportunity to check it, because we have quoted you in a follow-up committee. You have met on 10 October, but we are going to quote you again in November and you will be able to see that everything we are doing - unlike what you did - is complete and rigorously true. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF MR MARTA SORLI FRESQUET, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: Will the AP-7 Autopist, at her own pace through the VALENTIAN TERRITORY, be free when the current concession is issued in 2019? [[File number 180/00395]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u102	He also asked the Minister for Development, Mrs Marta Sorlí Fresquet, of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u103	Thank you, Madam President. It seems that the renewal of the PA-7 concession in 2018 no longer generates any conflict. After years and extensions it seems that the ministry is committed not to renew this concession. Well, now that we know this, we want to know something very concrete: Will the AP-7 be free when it passes through the Valencian territory from the end of the concession in 2019? We have amortized it, renewed concessions and paid it again. The question is answered with a yes or a no: Are we going to continue paying the Valencians and the Valencians for circulating this way?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u104	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u105	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this is a question that I have been asked on more than a dozen occasions and on all occasions I answer exactly the same thing, which is what I am going to answer: The Government does not intend to extend the concessional period of the current contract that we have for AP-7. Therefore, at the time the contract expires, this highway will revert to the General Administration of the State and it will be the Government that will have to take the appropriate decision at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sorlí.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u107	We do not understand what interest there is behind so much secrecy, because the question is simple. The Valencians and the Valencians want a fair deal. In 2016, the profits of the AP-7 amounted to 114 million euros that came directly out of the pockets of the Valencians and the Valencians and went to the pockets of the big companies, and all this while they are rescued radials in Madrid; all this while the deficit highways of Madrid we pay them all over the world. We want and demand a fair deal. Do you know, Minister, that in the Navy or in El Maestrat we have no other means of communication worthy of being the toll freeway? We have no proximity, toll-free roads are real mousetraps and the only medium-dignity road we have is a highway that has to be paid for. Getting to Vinaroz or Pilar de la Horadada without paying is a real odyssey, and that's what we're talking about about coastal communications. If we talk to him about the insides, I don't even tell him anymore. You'll understand that we demand a fair deal with the toll freeway as well. The railway connections in our territory are a shame; the roads, a danger to our physical integrity; the Mediterranean corridor and the AVE to Castellón, a puzzle to be deciphered, and now Abertis talks about soft tolls and the spokesman in Fomento del Partido Popular, also deputy for Castellón, talks about possible maintenance tolls. How long are we going to have to keep paying for running these roads? We demand a fair deal, we demand decent infrastructure... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u108	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. You're talking about a fair deal. Let me give you some data. In this year alone, I insist, only this year, we have launched the variant of Font de la Figuera, which as a whole represents an investment of 120 million euros; we have started the works of the port of Querol, which are 42 million euros; we have started the works of the variant of Benissa, which are 30 million euros; we have tendered - only this year - works for more than 120 million euros; we have tendered the doubling of access to Alicante airport; we have tendered the extension of the V-21 between Carraixet and Valencia... ; we have drawn up two contracts of integral conservation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u110	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u111	... we have drafted the project for the access of the south dock of Castellón; we have taken out to public information three sections of the A-7, between Vilanova d ́Alcolea and La Jana, in Castellón precisely, that exceeds 300 million euros; we continue with the access to Xirivella with its lower passage of 10 million euros, with the access south to the port of Gandia, with another 20 million euros, with the A-38 between Cullera and Favara, for 120 million euros, and already announce that we will start the drafting of the projects of the variant of Torrevieja and the N-232 between Masía de la Torreta and Moreira. Do you really consider that this Government, which is doing all this in just one year, is doing an unfair treatment to your autonomous community, Your Honor? [[Mrs. Sorlí i Fresquet: Yes]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u112	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO GONZALEZ TEROL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: THE NEW RULES FOR DRONE REGULATION IN WHICH THE DEPARTMENT MINISTER IS WORKING? [[File number 180/000400]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u113	Question by Mr Antonio González Terol, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, in recent years we have seen how the skies of Spanish cities and municipalities were filled with civilian aircraft piloted by remote control, better known as drones. This is not the result of intuition but of the data of the sector itself. In fact, the first barometer of the drone sector in Spain, published in December last year, tells us of more than 2,400 registered operators, more than 3000 aircraft of less than 150 kilos registered and more than 2541 accredited pilots. Most of the operators of these companies using drones are SMEs and self-employed, around 90% of the sector, and their activity focuses mainly on the audiovisual sector, about 45%. So we could say that it is the sector that has most launched and made drones visible, but it is not the only sector, such as agriculture, forest management, transport, mining, infrastructure, security and a very long one, including training, insurance or even fraud prevention. Currently there are projects, for example in New Zealand, of Google Wing for the transport and distribution of fast food. And AENA, by way of a national example, I think it's going to inspect up to seven airports through drones. There is even a Spanish company, Indra, that is developing one of the first marine drones with budget, with 100% Spanish financing and technology. These examples are a small sample of the different uses that drones can have, apart from the audiovisual one, which is the best known, and also speaks of the enormous potential that this sector can have at national, European and, above all, at international level. But if this development is to be sustained over time not only with the work and research of the operators, but also with the need for a stable regulatory framework and, in particular, for it to be adapted to the different changes in the sector. The European Union has already launched its own U-Space initiative, which will be on the table in 2019. The Government of Spain already made a law in 2014 and we know that, given the importance of normative development, its ministry is starting to make improvements to this regulation. Minister, we would like to know from the People's Group what improvements the new regulations on drones in which your ministry is working can make. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u115	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. González. Indeed, we are carrying out a new regulation through a draft royal decree that pursues a threefold objective: on the one hand, to extend the use of drones; on the other hand, to increase or increase security guarantees both for people and for goods in the use of these aircraft and, finally, to provide also something in what you have emphasized, which is the development of an economic activity that has much future in our country. What we are going to do is to expand the permitted uses of drones, such as overflights in urban areas and agglomerations of people, night flights or flights outside the pilot's visual range, but that is, of course, ensuring safety requirements. By giving it some detail, we will establish within this royal decree that a classification of aircraft is being processed, the requirements for certification and, for those who do not require a certificate, the conditions and limitations that must be given for their use and in any case the conditions to be able to use airspace. It is a sector, as you have said, that has a large economic volume in place at the moment. In Europe by 2035 it is estimated that it can reach 10 billion euros and in Spain in just three years we already have 2400 drone operators, which are many. Therefore, we are not going to remain alone in the adoption of this royal decree, which I hope we can adopt at the end of the year, once we have passed the last formalities - it is on the Council of State and we have submitted it to two procedures of hearing after a very participatory process - but I also take the opportunity to announce to it our commitment to present in the first trimester of the year 2018 a strategic plan for the development of the sector of the drones in Spain that, in a transversal way, tries to identify the actions that allow an orderly development of the sector. In short, to promote this development and to ensure its viability, of course with all the security necessary for the use of drones in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u117	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN SOFIA HERNANZ COSTA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT intend to conclude with the constant growth of contracts for a term of less than one week? [[File number 180/00407]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u118	Question to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Question by Mrs Sofía Hernanz Costa from the Socialist Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what is this government going to do to combat the alarming growth in labour contracts lasting less than a week? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u120	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, the aim of this government is that every day there will be more and better jobs in Spain. We will have more jobs if we are able to consolidate the recovery by maintaining political stability and also by creating confidence in economic operators, and in the strategy of more and better employment, including quality in employment, we are working with the social partners at the comprehensive table of quality in employment and of course always resolutely fighting against fraud. Look, in its autonomous community, in Balearic Islands, we have put in place an agreement between its Government, the Government of Balearic Islands, and the Government of Spain that is producing important results. More than 3900 actions have been taken since 2015 with the result that more than 9400 contracts have been converted unduly temporary into indefinite contracts. That is the way and there we will continue to count on the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs. Hernanz, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister for Employment and Social Security, I asked you a question about employment policies because your pension policy has become meridianly clear when the government withdraws pensions of 380 euros to widows living in public residences because she is afraid that they will be overprotected. [[Applauds]] I do not know if it is more cruel or shameful, but of course this Government will appeal to the Constitutional Court. Minister, I want to show you something. This is the working life of Antonio, a thirty-year-old. [[Show a document]] Viewed so far looks like a prosperous working life, the problem is when we look closely at it. Antonio, last September he ended up chaining up to seven one-day temporary contracts, all of them with the same company. Is this the spring of Antonio's job? How can anyone, Minister, have a vital project when their job uncertainty no longer has a horizon of months or weeks but days? [[Applauds]] Antonio is not an isolated case, unfortunately. There are millions of Antonios in this country and I will give you some data for your reflection: Of the 800 000 possible contracts concluded last September, more than half a million were lasting less than a week, 68% exactly. And another more devastating fact: possible one-day contracts have increased by 102 % compared to those in the first quarter of 2008, in the midst of the economic crisis. One-day employment contracts, ladies and gentlemen. You know what that means? They are workers who stand up in unemployment, work a day and lie down again being stopped. This is the government's work model. But today I want to send a message of hope, we are going to repeal that labor reform and we are going to restore dignity and hope in the future... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u124	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, the difference is that 1500 people, whether they call themselves Antonio or not, do not go to unemployment every day as they spent in 2011 with the Socialist Party but find employment with the People's Party government. And much remains to be done and we will continue to work to improve the quality of Antonio's and all the Spanish's jobs. Look, say what they say, the EPA is clear: 73% of Spaniards who have a salary have an indefinite contract - 73% - and 0.97% have a temporary job of less than a month - and that includes those of less than a month and a week -, Your Honor, 0.97% of less than a month. Therefore, most have an indefinite contract. We have a lot to improve on, but you tell me about the September data and I'll be clear. Recruitment has increased in Spain with recovery, it has doubled. See, contracts of less than seven days remain more or less stable: they were 22% in 2011 and today they are 24%. But look, undefined contracts have increased by 67 %. Thus, seven times as many undefined contracts have grown as those of a week and in the month of September - which you have used - there have been 192 000 undefined contracts, the best data since 2008. Much remains to be improved, Your Honor, but with the People's Party the Spanish have jobs and more and more stable days. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u126	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Eva GARCIA SEMPERE, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT BETWEEN THE DEPOBLISHMENT OF THE PEOPLES OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/00396]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u127	Question to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. Question by Mrs Eva García Sempere of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, in the light of events such as Castilla and León losing 64 inhabitants - i.e. 7 people - per province and day they have to emigrate, that they find no employment or any possibility, that more than 2500 villages in Spain are at risk of disappearing in the next fifteen years, that 105 rural regions are within what the European Union considers a demographic desert or that in the last ten years we have lost 82 daily farms, mostly small and medium-sized, what will the Government do to deal with depopulation in rural areas?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u129	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u130	Your Honor, we are all concerned about the problem of population loss. That is why the Government of Spain has placed it as a priority on its political agenda; it is giving a multisectoral approach to this challenge, which is the way to solve it. The Conference of Presidents held in January agreed on the establishment of the Government Commissioner in the face of the demographic challenge that coordinates the work. The Government had defined a national strategy to address the demographic challenge, a working group had been set up, work was being done to support demographic renewal and specific treatment was being given to depopulation to favour people living in villages and to encourage more people to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs. García Sempere.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u132	Frankly, we didn't expect anything else. Since 2015, his Government had launched a presentation in the Senate in which, over 66 pages, 137 measures had been proposed. There was also a FEMP report in 2017 with 81 measures distributed in seven areas of action; another committee in the Senate agreed in November 2016 where they re-examine the demographic assessment and also propose a multitude of measures, plus two national congresses. And now he's talking to us about the government commissioner on the demographic challenge. Man!, originals have not been, but it is not only that they have not been originals, it is that talking now about they are going to make a strategy, they are going to analyze the data and they are going to define priorities is, at least, insulting. In addition, this Commissioner is born with zero euros, has no part in the General Budgets of the State. The only thing you have done has been to appoint a new position of your trust. The same applies to the municipalities of this country. The reality is that the fight against rural depopulation is linked to the development of a state policy for the rural environment. Do you know what has happened to State policy for the rural environment, the natural framework of which is the Development Act? For they have left it in a drawer since 2012, still without budget allocation and without any content. What you have decided is to devote yourselves to managing the funds of the second pillar of the CAP, and I say more to you, with a management called into question by your own evaluation services, with which you have not succeeded too much there. What they've done has been built on the mud. Depopulation is a matter of general interest, not only for municipalities, but for the whole State. It is so serious that it is linked to the abandonment of the mountains. Surprise yourself, do you know what is linked to the abandonment of the mountains? The brutal increase in fires. Half of the municipalities that burned in Galicia and Asturias had lost 50% of their population in the last few years... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u133	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, do not underestimate the national strategy in the face of the demographic challenge, but I will also tell you what the Government is already doing. In addition to working on future proposals, which are important in the face of depopulation, we are shifting that priority from day one to all public policies and with a lot of funding. Some examples. Employment: We have called for EUR 100 million of aid to local authorities, particularly to members of Parliament, for training and employability programmes for young people who do not study or work. Almost twelve thousand are already benefiting and will be expanded with a new call. In the area of communications, in order to combat the digital divide in rural areas, we have approved aid for broadband procurement that will benefit almost two million households in rural areas, increasing aid for high-speed networks by almost 60%, another EUR 100 million. In the area of sustainability, in June we called for grants worth EUR 336 million for the financing of energy efficiency and sustainable mobility projects for municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants. Fourth, housing. The new plan we are going to adopt incorporates rehabilitation aid for single-family homes in rural areas. Five, in response to priority groups, young people and women, in one of the areas with often masculinized ageing censuses, in addition to the Rural Women's Promotion Plan, we are agreeing with the autonomous communities on a comprehensive package of measures to, among other issues, promote generational empowerment and shared ownership. These are matters of great importance to the ministry I occupy. More. In forestry policy we are developing it. It did not exist and is very necessary for the preservation of the mountains and sources of wealth in rural areas. In general, we are working to ensure that the future common agricultural policy also takes into account the reality of depopulation. You should keep that in mind when you defend so many... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. - QUESTION OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs MeritxELL BATET LAMANA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN CATALUONE AND IN THE CONjunTO OF SPAIN? [[File number 180/00404]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u136	He is now asking the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness. Question by Mrs Meritxell Batet Lamaña from the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u137	Thank you, President. The conjunction of a Government of Spain that has practiced law without dialogue and without politics and of a Government of the Generalitat that has intended to do politics without law and ignoring the economic effects that this could entail has brought us here, to the disaster. A large part of the large Catalan companies are outside Catalonia, 1300 SMEs outside Catalonia; tourism sector sinking; volatile financial markets; stock market suffering; investment halting... And so many other negative economic data for Catalonia and for the whole of Spain. That is why, Minister, we ask your Government to project in every action, every statement, every decision they make, legal certainty, economic stability and good coexistence between Catalans and the Spanish as a whole. That is why we ask your Government, Minister, to take concrete action to commit itself to the maintenance of the living conditions and well-being of Catalans, to the maintenance and growth of jobs in Catalonia and to the recovery of the economic reputation of Barcelona and Catalonia, which for so many years has served as an economic engine for the whole country. And Mr. Puigdemont. [[He continues his intervention in Catalan, whose text, which he gives to the Journal of Sessions, says: '... he said that he is at his hands'. It's in your hands to stop this disaster. We ask him, '... we ask him to respond to his institutional responsibilities and not to his dreams, and to thus curb social suffering, economic bleeding and evil to the self-government of Catalonia. Mr. Puigdemont is asked to summon autonomous elections and return...']]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u138	One second, Mrs. Batet. Let us try to speak - you know that I am of a bilingual community - in the language in which we understand all the Spaniards, although I, as you know, am of a bilingual community and, of course, promote the use of all the co-official languages. [[Applauds]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u139	I have the translation prepared, Madam President. [[He continues his intervention in Catalan, whose text, which he gives to the Journal of Sessions, says: 'To Mr Puigdemont we ask him who calls autonomous elections and returns to the whole Catalan society his rights and freedoms, returns to the whole Catalan society the dignity of living in democracy'.]] [[It also facilitates the following translation to the Spanish: 'To Mr Puigdemont we say that it is in his hands; we ask him to respond to his institutional responsibilities and not to his dreams and thus to stop the social suffering, the economic bleeding and the damage to the self-government of Catalonia. We ask Mr Puigdemont to convene autonomous elections and return to all Catalan society their rights and freedoms, restore to all Catalan society the dignity of living in democracy']] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u140	Mrs Batet, I remind you that you are addressing this House, you are addressing a member of the Government, you are addressing many of your ladies and gentlemen, and what is convenient and prudent is to speak so that everyone knows what you are asking because, if not, possibly, there are some people - some of whom we understand by language proximity - who do not understand it. I thank you for your generosity, but above all I would like to thank all Members, after their speech, for trying to speak in a common language - as I am, I say to you, an advocate of the co-official languages - and of course also to know and learn the Catalan language, if we do not know it. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I have already said on numerous occasions that Catalonia's independence would be very bad from an economic point of view. It would mean tearing up one of the most integrated autonomous communities in the flows of trade, finance, world capital. An independent Catalonia would be much less autonomous, would have much less sovereignty from the point of view of economic policy than as part of Spain, the European Union and the euro area. It would remain outside all the treaties, 70% of its gross domestic product would be subject to tariffs, at physical borders, would be outside the euro area, the banks would not have the coverage of the European Central Bank - this is something we are seeing, so they have changed their domiciles - Catalan assets would not be eligible, there would be a significant credit contraction, the lack of access to capital markets by an independent Catalonia and, logically, it would have to create its own currency, which would be a very depreciated currency, which would very negatively affect all Catalan savers and, moreover, which would generate an inflationary process. In short, recession, a fall in GDP between 25% and 30%, a very high inflation situation and the unemployment rate would double. And the bad thing about all this is that when we look at the recent evolution of the Spanish economy and the Catalan economy, what shows is that we have already had almost three years of recovery, with growth above 3%, and even the Catalan autonomous community was growing above the average in Spain. Tomorrow we will have the data from the labour force survey, I hope they are good data, they are from until the end of September and I hope that it will again show that Catalonia was in the right direction and in the right direction. For all this, you will agree with me, Your Honor, that the important thing is to return to that direction, to the legality and support of economic policies which have somehow allowed such recovery and which, I repeat, I hope tomorrow will be reflected in the labour force survey. That is the direction, that is the situation and that is what we have to maintain in the future, because, I repeat, we were emerging from the crisis, even Catalonia ahead of the rest of Spain, and we were recovering the levels of employment that we should never lose as a result of the crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u142	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u143	We shall now proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. Firstly, urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the Government's general policy on transport and railway infrastructure to promote competitiveness, growth and job creation in the Spanish economy. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Development. The inquiry that, on behalf of the Forum, I have the honour to present to the Government has three very specific objectives relating to the railway policy of its ministry. The first objective is to know the measures and initiatives taken during this first year of the legislature by the Ministry of Promotion in the matter of compliance with the European directives for the opening to the competition of the railway, the last mode of transport that is not yet... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u145	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u146	... fully open to competition in Spain and the European Union and thus serves to reduce inefficient monopoly situations resulting in a regrettable waste of opportunities for growth and job creation around the railway sector. I am not talking about a commitment from my party - which of course it is - but about the statement made by you in your first appearance in this House on 19 December when you promised - I quote your literal words - to continue 'working to integrate into our sector all the challenges that this fourth railway package brings us, both the technical pillar and the pillars of governance and market.' We are therefore interested to know the measures taken in this legislature concerning the technical pillar, which regulates safety, interoperability and the European Union Railway Agency, as well as those concerning the organisation of the rail services market, with a view to opening up the operation of national passenger transport services to railway undertakings as from 1 January 2019, so that the effective operation by railway undertakings will start at the end of 2020. We are also interested to know the plans relating to the new competitive competition scenario for the award of contracts arising from public service obligations which, in a transitional way, allow direct award until 24 December 2023. The opening of the railway to competition in the passenger sector means opening up new opportunities for both private companies and travellers, who will benefit from these measures, as they will have more commercial alternatives to choose from, without forgetting that the growth of the sector will allow the creation of many new jobs in Spain. Within this same objective, I am also referring to the situation of the opening up to competition in Spain of the carriage of goods by rail, which stems from the fulfilment of the first railway package and which is a matter of particular importance in Spain in order to give a solution to the dramatic fall in the transport of goods by rail as a result of the terrible failure of Renfe's management, which I will mention in the third point of this parliamentary initiative. Minister, the second objective of my question is to know whether the government has decidedly planned the removal of technological barriers with Europe, in order to promote our integration into the European Union, by recovering the plan for the transformation of the Spanish rail network to the UIC standard width. This plan was included in the PIT Railway Programme, Transport Infrastructure Plan 2000-2010, conceived and launched by the Aznar Government, which raised this challenge openly in Spain for the first time. In your first appearance at the General Courts on 19 December, you made no reference to this commitment. Minister, Spain adopted in 1986 the transcendental decision to fully join the European Union within the new Europe of the 21st century in order to achieve full integration. After the physical, political and monetary barriers, our country had and has to break down other technological barriers that at present reinforce the possibilities of economic development based on competitiveness and innovation and penalise the present and future creation of jobs, the main political and economic priority for Spain's convergence in Europe. One of the most noted is the railway barrier constituted by the Iberian width of the tracks of our railway network decided in the nineteenth century as a measure of isolation to hinder the continental invasions. As I told you, the Transport Infrastructure Plan 2000-2010 set in motion in its railway chapter the decisive transformation of the Spanish network to international width through a gradual process that was supported by three elements developed by our national technology: multi-purpose width traverses, since then mandatory in compliance with a communicated order of the Secretariat of State; mobile units, i.e. locomotives and wagons equipped with variable axles; and mechanisms for changing the width of axles installed in railway superstructures to facilitate transitions. These are elements that - it is worth highlighting - began to be used to advance the commissioning of the large high-speed runners with the expectation of continuing to combine their use later on in the rest of the lines. The Governments after 2004 no longer showed interest in the transformation of the Spanish rail network to international width, limiting its application to the inevitable case of some high-speed corridors under construction. Also during these years, the Spanish railway was again the victim of Renfe's nineteenth strategy, committed to preventing the change to the international width in our network in order to perpetuate its monopoly and to make it difficult for competition in the transport of goods in Spain to open up, in breach of all European directives. You have been able to see - not only in the government programme agreed with the Forum in Asturias, but, for example, recently in Ifema, here in Madrid, this very month of October - that as time passes, the transformation of the entire rail network to the width of the UIC is gaining full importance as a European key. The mobilization of the entrepreneurs and the autonomous governments of Valencia, Catalonia, Murcia and Andalusia in favour of the Mediterranean corridor to the international width, as well as the Government of the Basque Country, is the front of a civic movement that has once again claimed to the Ministry of Development the great railway objective pending in Spain to complete its full integration into the Europe of transports. It is essential that the plan to transform our railway network to international width is a decision that is implemented in any program of new creation or conditioning of the existing railway network in order to invest with a vision of the future and not waste the money in perpetuating the nineteenth decisions that tear and drag our railways. The third objective of my question concerns the measures to be taken by the Ministry of Development in Renfe to change the management of Renfe Goods in order to increase the share of railways in the traffic of goods, among other measures, through the acquisition of mobile material of UIC width and variable axis under the first European railway package which opened up to competition the transport of goods by rail, as I pointed out at the beginning of my intervention. Moreover, the fourth European rail package necessarily affects Renfe Travellers' position on the market, which has been, and so far remains, the only operator in rail passenger transport. If other companies decide to bet on liberalisation, Renfe Viajeros will also have to face up to it in three years, thanks to the liberalisation drive of the European Union, the competition in high speed and long distance services because it will cease to be the only operator in the transport of passengers, forced to compete with them, and will no longer be able to provide the public service obligations - in proximity, half distance and metric width - that today lends by direct award, beyond December 2023. All this represents a fundamental change, as Renfe will be subject to some rules of the game to which he had so far had no need to face. As a result of Renfe's poor management of freight transport at the end of 2016, just under a year ago, the National Commission on Markets and Competition pointed out that rail freight transport had lost almost 10% of its activity in the first half of the year, falling below 4%; a figure very far from the EU average in rail freight transport, which averages 18% - 22% in Germany, 16% in France and 11% in Italy -, so it is not difficult to admit the significance of opening up rail transport to competition and breaking this unacceptable and scandalous trend. The current reality is that Renfe Mercancias is a broken company, which lacks a plan to equip itself with mobile material of international width, because it continues with its decadent and suicidal business strategy of clinging to the monopoly protectorate, trying to circumvent with unacceptable formulas, such as the formation of mixed companies with a majority of state capital, the European directives opening up to competition in rail transport in Europe, which would help to break the tendency to failure and ruin of the Spanish railway. Renfe's forecast for the acquisition of international-wide UIC railway units, locomotives and wagons for the carriage of goods by rail is not known, in order to enhance this mode of transport which is in direct decline in Spain. It has not been a coincidence or unexpected event that last March the National Commission on Markets and Competition itself imposed on Renfe the biggest sanction imposed on a single company in Spain: EUR 65 million for hindering the liberalisation process started in 2005, which causes the inevitable price increase of products transported by rail and the consequent loss of market share. In short, Minister, I look forward with great interest to your responses to the three objectives set out. Firstly, compliance with the European directives on opening up railways to competition; the last mode of transport which serves as a reduction to inefficient monopoly situations in both freight and passenger services. Secondly, the plan to remove technological barriers with Europe by adapting the Spanish rail network to the UIC width to boost our integration into the European Union. Finally, and thirdly, the measures of the Ministry of Development in Renfe to increase the share of the railway in the traffic of goods, among other measures, through the acquisition of mobile material of UIC width and variable axis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u147	Thank you very much. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr de Fomento.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u148	Thank you very much, President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, first and foremost, in general terms, save the nuances, I have to tell you that we agree with what you say about transport and rail infrastructure policy, in the sense that it is a policy that can help improve competitiveness, growth and job creation. These are principles that are materialized in the strategic axes that I outlined in my appearance at the beginning of the legislature in relation to planning, innovation, logistics, sustainability, all those factors that we are pushing from the ministry itself. We may disagree with some of the statements you have made, and I will try to respond to them. In the first block of issues to which you have referred, the block of compliance with the European directives for opening up railways to competition, as it cannot otherwise be, the Ministry of Development follows a policy of strict compliance with all the obligations we have, arising precisely from compliance with that regulation. Within this set of regulations for the liberalization of rail transport, we have what has already begun in 2005 - you know it well -, which was then reflected in the existing Railway Sector Law 39/2003. In this sense, we already authorized at that time the creation of a new model of Renfe Operadora, a business model for Renfe with the creation of specialized commercial companies. One was specifically Renfe Rail Material Rental, which made available to any railway operator the rolling stock needed to operate in the service by removing one of the entry barriers to the sector. It currently has materials from Renfe Mercancias that can be rented by several private operators. I believe that this has managed to open up a market, that the current state of the sector is of real competition and that today we can count, for example, on nine private operators operating in Spain and already transporting more than one third of the net tons per kilometre carried by rail, exactly 36%, according to the data that the CNMC itself has for 2015. This shows a trend towards market share growth, because in 2011 it was barely 14 %, i.e. the share has increased by 157 %. I would also like to talk at this point about the reference you made to the CNMC sanctioning Renfe Mercanías last March. Firstly, this sanction is not based on non-compliance with European directives, it is not based on the lack of competition in the application of those directives, but on issues related to competition law in the market and the alleged dominance position in Renfe Mercancias itself. Secondly, it refers to the period 2008-2014 and, in particular, to what is due to the agreement signed between Renfe and Deutsche Bahn in 2008, practices that are no longer carried out today by Renfe Mercanías and are therefore not the subject of this dossier. Thirdly and lastly, because Renfe's legal services have appealed this sanction to the National Court because it is considered unfair and disproportionate. You have no doubt, Mr Martínez Oblanca, that we fully agree that what we want for Renfe Mercancias is for it to operate in this environment in a competitive way, growing and respecting the principles of free competition. The next issue you are interested in is the Plan for the removal of technological barriers with Europe. As I will now try to tell you, we have not only not opposed this integration, but, I understand, we are a key country in Europe for its momentum and development. With regard to the width of the track, you have made a presentation on the problems of the width of the track, on the implementation in our country of the widths of the track in order to avoid the continental invasions - there are also many bibliographic references and some say that this is not exactly the case because in 1944 there were already reports that justified that arrangement of the width of the track in six Spanish feet in the convenience of having a wider locomotives and that could therefore have greater power - but, in any case, whatever the origin, in what we do have to disagree is that governments after 2004 have not shown interest in this transformation of the network. I think there has been a lot of evidence in our recent history and I can tell you that since 2012, for example, lines such as Barcelona-Mollet, Girona-Figueres, Albacete-Alicante, Valladolid-Palencia-Leon and Olmedo-Zamora have been put into service. I would also like to highlight the role that wide exchangers play in the benefits of high-speed lines because, in fact, they achieve a significant reduction in travel times and this favors passenger traffic. I do not want to stop referring to something you have mentioned and so you ask me, which is the approval of the variable axle for goods and the new trains we want to have. This type-approval is important because it will allow circulation in standard wide corridors across different lines and I can move you that we are working intensively on the completion of the type-approval process and that we think that by the summer we may have finished and therefore we are already in a position to bid for the new production of trains with that variable axis. On the other hand, you mention the Commissioner for Transport, Mrs Bulc, when she referred to the need to improve rail connections with our ports. That is why, among other things, we are carrying out a very important plan to improve maritime-terrestrial accessibility with an investment for the period 2017-2021 of €1400 million; we have already signed many agreements with different port authorities precisely to favor this connection. Of course things remain to be done, but rail transport in our ports has not stopped growing since 2009, in which only 8.9 million tons were moved, until 2016, in which there are already 15.3 tons. Reaching a single system is crucial to achieving the interoperability of the systems and the different networks, to optimize what is the efficiency of the railway in our country and, therefore, we are also working on the establishment of such regulations for common infrastructures, on-board systems, communication interfaces, etc. And in Spain we have a very important network of lines equipped with ERTMS, 1890 kilometers of line, so we are the country of the European Union that has the most lines in service of ERTMS. So, when Commissioner Bulc says that the deployment has not been all the satisfactory that it should have been, I guarantee that it did not refer to our country. Think that countries like Belgium, France or Italy, which are the next ones after us, barely each of them reach the 500 kilometers installed, and we are in 1890. We must therefore be proud and I believe that ERTMS would hardly be what it is today at European level if it had not been for the impetus given precisely by our country. Finally, I would like to refer to Renfe's plans to increase the railway share in freight traffic. Here I am prepared to announce to you something that I believe I have already said in some Committee on Development and it is the completion of the plan we have been working on for many months now so that we can increase that quota in a global way. To that end, we are already carrying out some initiatives that will be part of that plan. It is not the time now to explain it, among other things because I do not have time and because it is not yet finished, we will finish it before the end of the year, but it is a plan that will contemplate, on the one hand, the sanitation of Renfe Mercancias; on this we have already started to work. Since the beginning of the legislature we have carried out a management plan 2017-2019 to heal the company and adapt it to the market conditions in competition, and the truth is that the evolution is spectacular. We have a positive evolution in revenue, 3%; in resource productivity, 4.5%; in personnel, 20%, of tonnes transported by the driver; in equipment, between 15% and 20% of kilometres travelled by locomotive; that is, an improvement in the company's performance by 40% in the first nine months of 2017, we have gone from an Ebitda of at least 14 to 1,9%. Therefore, let me also differ in the rating you have placed of Renfe Mercancias as a private company. In relation to the strategic material plan, in this context of liberalization we are working on that specific plan that will contain the analysis of material needs, including of course standard width material, the derivative of the new UIC network utilization needs, the transformation of the material available for adaptation to that width, and that in the end will be translated, in the plan that we will present before the end of the year, into an investment plan. Think that the mobile material needed to circulate with the two widths does not have to be everything of variable rolling, but can be adapted to the needs of each traffic. The third is the incorporation of an industrial partner. Indeed, among our plans is to incorporate a partner who brings added value to Renfe Mercancias' logistics capacity, and in that we are working, I hope we can soon give good news on this issue. In addition, by mentioning other axes which will contain the plan, it is planned to introduce tax benefits, aid, subsidies, in the end, a policy of harmonising all modes of transport and specific support to the railway sector in order precisely to encourage the transfer of goods to this mode. We're going to keep improving infrastructure. There are many examples; he spoke before the ports, but we have axes as important - to quote one - as the Sagunto-Teruel-Zaragoza. We will also encourage the creation, for the first time in our country, of railway motorways. It has been a success that we have called - I am finishing, Madam President - with five proposals that have come up with the expression of interest that we have addressed to suppliers and manufacturers, and before the end of the year we will be able to launch the second call so that they can present their business plans. I conclude by reiterating our commitment to compliance, of course - as it could not otherwise be - with European directives; to the liberalisation of rail transport, especially freight; to the will to continue working to remove any technological barrier, coming from the width of the road, from the improvement of access to ports or from the management and control of traffic, in order to continue to advance, in the end, in that plan of goods that we will soon present in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, in my question I raised three very specific questions of railway policy, and, yes, you mentioned some, you even said that you generally agree with my first intervention, but I do not think you have answered them. In Spain, speaking of the 21st century railway, we are either going very slowly or we are not moving forward. I remind you that you served the first hundred days as a minister on 12 February and that you are about to serve one year in office in early November, and a year is a long time to do things or a long time to not do them. Never forget that the members of the Government where they have to talk above all and above all is in the Official State Gazette. We are confident that the Government will once again push ahead with the railway policy we need. We run a severe risk of consolidating the two railway Spains, and I warn you especially not from Asturias, but from the whole of the north-west of Spain. His ministry has to look up and set the goal in Europe to implement a transformation plan to the international width or UIC standard. The Government cannot resign itself to the two railway Spains, which progresses in international width and which loses the opportunity of progress with the perpetuation of the Iberian width. I said in my intervention that only UIC width is driven on the high-speed network. Is there or is there no plan for the transformation to the UIC width? That is what you have to answer to, Minister, and that is what I will raise in the relevant motion, as a result of this inquiry. In 2003, the General Courts transposed the draft law on the railway sector to accommodate the Spanish legal order with the directives of the first European railway package, in line with the parameters established by the European Union. Today I have raised this question in order to encourage Parliament to implement the Government in a new impetus to railway policy. We believe that this is essential, because the last White Paper on transport points out that it is precisely the railway sector where we need to make the most progress. In addition, we have been reminded of the need to comply with European standards in order to have a European track width. Spanish ports are losing competitiveness because they lack adequate rail connectivity. This is not what Forum says, which was also stated here in Congress in March by the European Commissioner for Transport herself, Mrs Bulc. These are his literal words taken from the Journal of Sessions. Fourteen years after that flag of legislative exit to promote the development of the railway in Spain and increase its participation in the modal distribution of transport, several of the main objectives that were launched are still pending. We also have only three years left to complete the liberalization of transport and it has not been good news for Spain that the CNMC itself has applied a historic sanction to the company. By the way, you, Minister, have a problem with the CNMC, which is not believed to be dismantling this de facto monopoly. I also asked him about the steps his ministry is going to take to manage Renfe Mercancias. It is unacceptable for Spain to maintain a very low current quota for such transport. First of all, because our country - as I said earlier - is far from the European average and we cannot compare or even approach other countries like Spain. Secondly, because the data - by squalls, by rickets - are so eloquent that they show that in Spain the liberalisation of the sector, more than a decade later, is an entelequia, it is failed, it drives us away from Europe and it misses economic growth. And, thirdly, something very important, and it is missing the opportunity to create jobs around the railway. We cannot underestimate and disregard the impact that the railway has on the internal market of the European Union. To the greatest extent, I read the written reply, Minister, following an initiative of control formulated by this Member last February, which leaves no doubt: Renfe has 10 locomotives and 87 wagons of width UIC for the transport of goods. Currently, Renfe does not have in its budgets for 2017 the acquisition of new cars and locomotives of international width, since the current fleet is dimensioned with respect to demand. Does it really seem to you that this is ambitious for Spain, that this is what Spain needs, this genuine misunderstanding of the UIC mobile park that freight transport needs in Spain? In short, the Spanish railway policy - and I am concluding, Madam President - is progressing in the best of cases to trompicones. I will therefore present in the next few hours a motion resulting from this inquiry to encourage the Congress of Deputies to give greater impetus to putting as soon as possible the railway policy for the transport of passengers and goods in the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u151	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, Mr de Fomento has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u152	Thank you, President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I read your question and there is a coincidence in many of the approaches, but I have tried to answer the three questions. It may not be the answer you were waiting for, but I do think I have answered the same. You mention again what the CNMC says, and I say again that what the CNMC says is about a contract that was carried out in 2008 for a type of service that stopped in 2014; therefore, it does not have any effect today. He makes a new mention of the policy of action in the ports, when we are acting. We have signed about 12 agreements with different port authorities for the execution of 750-metre yards. We are acting, as I say, on infrastructure such as Sagunto-Zaragoza-Teruel, which is already under construction; we have removed eight temporary speed limitations and are carrying out a first phase for train-land projects. Only these two measures have already made it possible to move from Zaragoza to Sagunto from three services that currently existed to twelve, with different companies that are already using the railway. We are also working on other types of actions with projects that reach up to EUR 313 million. Among other things, I will tell you that the next package of projects will have to do with increasing the carrying capacity of the structures in this line to favor the axes of 22,5 tons. These are concrete, tangible projects, such as those related to the maritime-terrestrial accessibility programme, for which we have set up a financial fund to facilitate connections. Of course I agree with Mrs Bulc that the connectivity of the ports with the railway infrastructures is one of the issues clearly to improve - that is where the real bottleneck of our port system is - but she will also agree with me that the measures that we are putting in place are absolutely necessary and that they begin, in some cases, to bear fruit. For all this we are finalizing a great Renfe Commodities program. You are talking about the rolling stock and the answer to one of the questions you have asked. You're right, but that's why we're preparing a plan for Renfe Goods' new rolling stock. We are preparing a new rolling stock plan that Renfe's president has already committed over EUR 1.5 billion this week, but we are working on a specific one for Renfe Mercanías. Of course priority is being given to the establishment of UIC width. What are we doing in the Galician corridor? I don't know. What are we doing in your hallway? I don't know. What are we doing in Cantabria, in the Basque Country, in the Mediterranean Corridor, in the different axes we are carrying out? Efforts are being made to implement this service of international width, and where it is not, with the naughty multipurpose, in order to be able to do so in the future. I therefore believe, Your Honor, that a very important effort is being made. We are going to work intensively on that commodity plan, which I am convinced will bear fruit. I have already told you about the surprising results we have achieved in Renfe Mercanías' sanitation plan. Be confident that we will substantially improve the situation of the transit of goods by rail. If your motion can help, welcome be. Of course, we will work intensively, as I believe we are doing, with your political group. I conclude with a very brief reference, because although I was not in your motion, I want to respond to what you said about Renfe Passengers, about the liberalisation of passenger traffic from 2020 onwards. We are also working on a package of measures to be competitive, to be strong enough to compete with those other operators who could reach our country. Among the measures that we are going to put in place, some will have to do with the generation of new products and services, I hope that as attractive as the one we have had the opportunity to see tonight, to which in forty-five minutes four million users have agreed for the purchase of those 25 euro banknotes that Renfe has put for sale. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u153	Thank you very much. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the Government's policy on prevention and combating forest fires. [[File number 172/000073]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u154	We now turn to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's urgent inquiry into the government's policy on forest fire prevention and control. For your defence, Mr. Palacín Guarné has the floor. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u155	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, we are facing a particularly negative year in the area of fires, in terms of number and forest area affected, above the average of the last ten years and approaching the figures of the bad year 2012. There have been 105 000 hectares of calcined land from January to September, according to the data of his own ministry, to which must be added the wave of fires that affected the north-west of this country. Especially dramatic was the situation in Galicia, with 35 000 hectares devastated and four fatalities, as well as the conditions in Asturias and León. Here I would like to express our sorrow for the mortal victims produced, to transfer solidarity to the families and friends of the victims themselves and to acknowledge the excellent work done by professionals and citizens who worked hard to put out those fires. We Socialists have already called for their appearance, which was held on 27 July, where we are dealing with forest policy and fire policy and, seeing that the situation has only worsened, we believe it is essential to celebrate this call today. His party, minister, took time to accept what was an empirical reality. The views of prominent members of his party on the consequences of climate change are public, I will only recall some: climate change is a Mayan prophecy; climate change is a new totalitarian religion without scientific basis; we are talking about a problem that, perhaps or perhaps not, our great-grandchildren will suffer. Well, climate change is here, we are suffering its consequences and Spain has lost precious time in taking measures to mitigate these challenges facing us, environmental, economic and also social challenges. But for this it is essential to have the political commitment which the People's Party, today, continues to despise and which has a direct effect on forests and fires. In this inquiry, I will speak above all of the present but also of the future. We will put forward positive proposals because we have no more time to waste. Minister, every time you talk about fires from your ministry you always focus on extinction, also last week in the control session, with the two questions you asked about this subject. I agree with you that we need to have a system of extinction with the best possible means, both material and human, and we agree that we must recognize the work of the professionals in the sector, but the best recognition, the one that awaits both forest agents and forest firefighters is that these words translate into an improvement of their working conditions, extending the periods of recruitment, reducing the interinity and establishing, of course, a basic regulation for professionals and professionals in the sector. In this regard, my party has already brought several initiatives to this House that have been approved. Do yours and you will count on our support. Minister, as everyone knows, climate conditions are changing and we must also change the way we fight fires. We are experiencing a serious drought situation. The water regime is changing and there will be more and more periods of drought and more recurrent. Here, just one point: it is entirely unjustifiable for us to remain absent from the international bodies where decisions are made. How is Spain's absence at the United Nations summit against desertification explained? There were 146 countries, among which we were not, although Spain is going to be one of the countries most affected by the consequences of climate change. The fires - we are seeing it - are taking place in times that were previously considered low risk and we have to adapt our fire policy to that too. We are suffering more and more forest fires, and we have more and more conditions in urban and peri-urban areas. I do not want to go into depth to analyze the causes, which are several and where all means must be put to solve each of the fires, to clarify the causes and to pursue the culprits, but there is one question that will help to reduce the impact of the fires, regardless of the cause that generates them, and it is to have the mountains in a better state, in the best possible state. It's not all done well, minister. It is not understandable that, knowing that the weather conditions were what they were, that there was a situation of fire risk, brigade members hired only for the summer campaign ending on 30 September are fired or not renewed, and that also includes the Brigadiers of BRIF, for which you are responsible. Several trade unions described it as fearless to have dispensed with many brigade members, as I said earlier, on 30 September, and also blamed the lack of planning of the rural and forest environment and the lack of commitment of the public authorities to the upsurge in global warming. We must begin to assume that structural prevention is necessary, that the forest, agriculture and peri-urban areas must be in good condition, that people live in rural areas, invest there and have a livelihood in those areas. You have to work to have a living rural environment, which is the only way to have a healthy natural environment. The distribution of competencies may complicate coordination efforts, but it needs to be improved, and it must be its Government, its Ministry, which is responsible for managing and improving this coordination. As I mentioned earlier, it is necessary for our country to have a good system of extinction, with the best, but we must not rely everything on extinction. We have seen that these large forest fires are often uncontrollable and put at risk, in addition to the natural environment, urban areas and people's lives. For this reason, it is more necessary than ever to invest and work in prevention. It is not understandable that administrations, including their ministry, invest much more in extinction than in prevention, an 80/20; this is a spiral that will never have a good end. Prevention has an obvious and well-known cost, but that cost will always be lower than the cost of extinction. How does the ministry value a calcined hectare? Does it take into account, in addition to the economic costs of the extinction and rehabilitation of the areas, the social, environmental or economic costs arising from those areas affected? If these costs were valued, it might be easier to invest more in prevention. According to the National Forest Inventory, the forest area planted in Spain has increased by 33% over the past 25 years, mainly due to two causes: the repopulation of forests and the abandonment of agricultural land. And it is that one of the main consequences of the rural exodus is the abandonment of the agricultural area and land dedicated until then to grazing, which favor the uncontrolled growth of the forest mass, especially in the most sensitive areas that also run out of inhabitants, the inhabitants who had watched those areas for generations. For our mountain to be healthy and orderly, it must be taken advantage of. The inhabitants of the rural environment must benefit from the social, economic or environmental benefits of the environment in which they live. If we want people to continue living in those areas, they must have more fiscal, social, service facilities, including positive discrimination. In this line we will bring an initiative not too late in the next few days. Only then will we be able to have living mountains again and achieve that mosaic that looks like the panacea but that a few years ago was real, creating areas of cultivation that interrupt the continuity of the forests, entering with animals to clean the forest or obtaining a timber use for the generation of energy through biomass. To reverse the current situation, of course, we must move from words to facts. It is well the creation of a commissioner for the study of strategies of the fight against depopulation, but we already have measures that came out of two presentations in the Senate, one for the rural environment and the other for high mountain areas, which put on the table measures that have been parked for six years. The Socialist Party, as I said earlier, will shortly bring initiatives in this direction to improve the situation in all these areas. As socialists have always been aware of the importance of having a living rural environment, we are promoting a state rural policy: the Law on Sustainable Rural Development, adopted in 2007 and dismantled from 2012. What do we got? We have a rural environment with more forest mass, more unpopulated and where the consequences of climate change will increasingly affect us. The great merit, perhaps, of the People's Party in these years on climate change has been the removal of the Secretary of State for Climate Change and the budgetary emptying of all policies that depended on it. It is true that progress is currently being made in the drafting of a climate change law, largely due to pressure from other groups as well as from society itself, a law that we hope is not a minimum law and has real commitments for all administrations. I would now like to focus on the budgetary translation of the policies of the People's Party in this area. It seems that these six years have been devoted to dismantling much of the environmental protection that our country had had and that it had been implementing in line with European objectives. The data to be taken into account are, for example, the 2016 budget implementation: as regards rural development, 65%; environmental protection and improvement, 70%; actions to prevent climate change, 62%; the Sustainable Rural Development Programme, 0%. Here I know you will try to apologize for being in a government in office during the year 2016, but it was not difficult for them to take other measures while still in office. According to the 2016 budget, these decreases are still increasing, with an average decrease of 23%. They are cuts that directly affect the fire prevention policy in our country. From my group we have asked about the measures or actions carried out in each of these items that have been cut and from the Government we are told that the actions or measures dependent on these items cannot be specified, but that we do not worry, that even if they have a smaller budget they will not be affected. I do not know whether we have to have faith in your Government, but really the work of monitoring and evaluating such policies is essential. I am not worried that you will not provide the data to us, but that you will not be able to take it into account either. Now that - according to Minister Montoro - the budgets are being finalized, it is necessary for him to demand a greater budget allocation for his ministry, as we have already indicated on several occasions. The consolidated budget for this year of his ministry is 9400 million euros, 3% less, of which 17 billion euros are the ones put by the Spanish State, with a decrease of 8%. It calls for more budget and does not trust everything that comes from Brussels, because we also have the Brexit on the table and, unfortunately, the budget that comes from European funds will decrease. Therefore, if we want to have a healthy and resilient natural environment, we must promote policies from your ministry, they must make a determined bet to boost and mobilize budgets that will improve the situation of our environment, an environment that we all benefit from, regardless of where we live. This will make us have a more and better forestry policy. We are the country of Europe with the richest biodiversity. If we want to remain citizens who enjoy this natural environment and not just survivors of climate change, we must take the environment more seriously and put ourselves on top of the budgeted political table, so that people living in rural areas can do so and can also maintain all those forests and mountains from which, as I said, we all benefit. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u156	Thank you very much, Mr Palacín. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me once again join in the pain of relatives and friends of the four dead, also of the neighbors of all the areas burned down in the last few days. I would like once again to condemn the events that took place last week in the north-west of Spain, where we have seen too many situations that are not explained without intention. Once again I want to make it very clear that we are against the arsonists, criminals to whom nothing concerns the magnitude of the damage they can cause. We condemn him a thousand times and he needs it so many times. We have to focus on the one who lights the fires and not the one who turns them off. We will advance a lot when society is absolutely intolerant against these criminals. We need the cooperation of all citizens to help ensure that the people who have caused so much harm do not go unpunished. Your Honor, the weather conditions on this year's Iberian peninsula, with a very strong and persistent drought and very high temperatures, even until mid-October, have been extreme and have conditioned the 2017 fire campaign. We have had an extremely warm and dry spring and a similar summer. For this reason, the Government decided to triple the discharge capacity in this month of October, anticipating the weather conditions of these days. As regards this year's fire campaign, up to 30 September the number of casualties was 9% higher than the average in the last decade and the forest area affected by it was 31% higher. The first week of November, once the information from the Autonomous Communities has been provided, we will be able to have consolidated data including October. We have some tentative estimates. For example, in Galicia, until September, the statistics placed this campaign slightly below the average of the last decade, 11 500 hectares. However, including the first half of October, the figure is 48,100 throughout the year, of which some 35,500 correspond to the second week of October, 12,600 only on the weekend of 14 and 15 October. This is about half the area burned in 2006. Your Honor, although the powers in the area of forest policy, forest fire prevention, detection and fire-extinguishing are vested in the Autonomous Communities, we believe that anything that improves coordination requires the support of the Government. That is why we have made a great deal of progress in forestry policy in these years. The Government of the People's Party already did so between 1996 and 2004, approving the first Spanish Forest Strategy - it was in 1999- or the Spanish Forest Plan 2002-2032, in 2002. With the People's Party back in the government, in the last legislature and in this one, forest policy has recovered at the national level. This is demonstrated by the important initiatives launched in recent years and by the budget allocated. Firstly, the past legislature approved the Socio-Economic Activation Plan of the Forest Sector, the Passfor, with 85 measures grouped into two main areas of action: first, measures to improve the mobilization and use of all forestry uses through associationism, mechanisation, diversification, marketing and innovation; and secondly, measures to improve the training and qualification of workers by promoting vocational training, which will contribute to improving productivity and thus to the competitiveness of enterprises in the sector. Secondly, forest policy was promoted by the Ministry in shaping rural development programmes. The autonomous communities have in their RDPs, for the period 2014-2020, more than EUR 2 billion for forestry policy. This is 14% more than in the past period. Thirdly, Law 20/2015, which amends the Mountain Law, facilitates the management of mountains, because a managed mountain is a caring mountain. This brings wealth to the rural environment, but also a lot of care is a lot where forest fires are most difficult. This amendment of the Montes Act, to give an example, gives a definitive boost, after the experience gained in these years, to the estimated one and a half million hectares of the mountains of partners, neighbours or the common. For the management of these mountains - I insist that they cover one and a half million hectares -, very complex because they are mountains in pro-individual regime in which not all the drivers are identified, the managing boards have been established by law. In addition, shortly, together with the forest-based sector in the Together for Forests organization, working with the autonomous communities, we will approve the forest action plan for the development of the sector and the development of the rural world. The key objectives of this plan are four. To encourage forest management at the national level by consolidating the production of goods and improving the key environmental services that mountains generate; to consolidate forest management as a basic economic activity in rural areas, which is perfectly integrated into the national bioeconomy strategy that the Government is also developing; to improve the competitiveness of forest farms; to enhance the key role of our mountains as CO2 sinks and to better adapt these ecosystems to the new climate scenarios. In particular, one of the pillars of the forest action plan is the implementation of a programme for the promotion of the forest sector; the enhancement of organizational structure and improvement of governance; the integration of forest management in the ideological planning and management of water resources; also the control and improvement of forest protection against forest fires and pests and diseases; or the improvement of the regulation of non-timber forest management. In addition to forestry policy, since we arrived at the Government we have been dealing with prevention policy. The National Rural Development Programme includes more than €67 million for preventive measures. We have made an important effort to constantly improve the conditions of the forest fire reinforcement brigades; today, the working conditions of the 545 BRIF workers are very different from the conditions they had in 2011, and not only because of the improvements in their personal equipment, work materials, continuing training or physical preparation, but also because today these workers have a job for practically the whole year as we have been extending it, as we have been extending the duration of the prevention work, which occupies them today up to 65% of their time, compared to 5% intended for extinction, without ever failing to meet in this matter all the requests that all the autonomous communities have made to us. And they have a stability horizon because of the multi-annual nature of the tasks entrusted to the company Tragsa, something that was not done before. In terms of extinction, we have also increased the budget to €85.5 million by 20% more than in 2012. Today we have seventy means, which account for 45% of the discharge capacity available in Spain; almost half of all discharge capacity belongs to the ministry, about a thousand people working in the season. This year we have also incorporated improvements in the coordination for global media management with the creation of the Hermes system, which allows to have localized all the aerial means of extinction that work at the same time in each fire. And we have incorporated new technologies, with the first use in Spain of four drones for use during the night arc for monitoring and monitoring tasks. Your Honor, the Government, as well as working on prevention and extinction, is already working on the restoration of damage. In the face of emergency or catastrophic events such as those that have occurred, the general aid scheme set out in Royal Decree 307 of 18 March 2005, which includes aid to family units for personal and material damage, aid to local corporations for emergency expenses, to communities of owners or to owners of establishments, for example, is immediately applicable. Law 17/2015 also provides for a series of extraordinary measures, prior to the declaration of a zone seriously affected by a civil protection emergency, for emergencies requiring the intervention of the General Administration of the State for their recovery. In addition, we will work together with Portugal to activate the European Solidarity Fund, in order to alleviate the damage in both countries, because solidarity is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union. Therefore, Your Honor, do not doubt that this Government will be close to all concerned and will work to restore the damage caused and restore normality as soon as possible. Your Honor, the implementation of forest restoration measures on areas most affected by fires is also a priority for this Government. The implementation of these measures is the responsibility of the Autonomous Communities, but in the case of large and severe fires, the Ministry is acting in support of the regional administrations, in particular in the immediate action to be taken when the fire is extinguished. [[The lady]] Thus, significant investments are being made in emergency hydrological-forestry operations in particularly sensitive burned areas. So far, these actions represent an investment during this year close to 6.2 million euros, highlighting the restorations of the fires of Huelva and León. In addition, we will carry out emergency actions to help resolve the situation caused by the fires of the last few weeks in the north-west peninsula, emergency actions in forest and environmental restoration, actions in the National Natural Paths Network, actions in the hydraulic public domain, actions in the field of agricultural insurance and tax benefits for agricultural activities. On the other hand, the Government has also tightened legislation criminalizing criminal conduct in relation to fire. The penalties have been extended, there is an economic impact of the damage, popular jurors have been suppressed and if there is an important environmental value it is considered an environmental crime. In short, honourable Member, there has been a great deal of progress over the past six years in all aspects of forestry policy, prevention, detection, coordination, firefighting and also restoration. But this, Your Honor, is not a speech of self-congratulation, but quite the contrary, because each year we work on the basis of what we learned in the previous year. Every year we make improvements that have allowed us to recognize that Spain has the best system and the greatest capacity to deal with fires, and I quote the Commission's words: Spain is, in some way, a reference to what could be done at European level since it is probably the most prepared country and with the best prevention measures. And although it is this year when the Commission sets Spain and its entire apparatus as an example, I would never dare say that it is because of this government, but it is because of many years of work improving it among all. That is why I want to acknowledge all those who have preceded us at all levels, because the best device is neither improvised nor built in the last six years, although - I insist - we have made significant improvements at all levels. My appreciation to everyone for what has been done over the years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Palacín Guarné.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u159	Thank you again and good morning to all of you again. Minister, you are Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment, and it is time for you to demand the necessary budget so that this country can improve and combat the environmental and natural effects of climate change. He's been talking about the magnificent extinction system we have again. It is true that we as a country are going to suffer more than any other in the European Union the consequences of climate change and that we also have the second largest forest mass in all the countries of the European Union. On the subject of extinction, we will bring to the motion next week the proposal to create a working table and improve coordination with all the autonomous communities. We are not just saying this, but also the councillor of the Galician Rural Region said that coordination was better during those days. It is true that there were complications, many of which were the focus, but we understand that more efforts must be made and improved in coordination, and it must be their ministry that is responsible for doing so. We understand that we need to change the vision of times of high fire risk. Previously they were considered three months of high fire risk and now that high fire risk has been de-seasonalized, so they must also de-seasonalize the contracts of professionals dedicated to this sector, who expect more than good words. I know the BRIF brigadists are in talks with the ministry, but it is true that our party is committed to a basic law for both forest agents and forest firemen. We cannot excuse the fact that weather conditions influence the spread of fire. We do not say so; many experts say that the abandonment of the mountain, the chaos of territorial policies and climate change are the main causes for the flames to reach high speed and the great forest fires to occur. The severity of these fires is much greater in the abandoned mountains, so an even greater effort must be made in rural development policies. It is true that it has advanced and commented here that many forest policy measures have been put in place, but they need to be evaluated because they may not be meeting the objectives for which they were put in place. Minister, you, who want to fly the flag of the rural environment, cannot turn your back on a very important part of the territory of this country, even if we live few people in it, because we are the ones who care day by day that the forest and the mountains are in good condition. That is why we need to be brave, we need to be ambitious and put fiscal policies and policies of positive discrimination on the table so that people who want to live in rural areas can do so and prevent the rural environment in this country from losing 50,000 people, as is happening every year. For this reason, it is also more necessary than ever to improve the Law for the Sustainable Development of the Rural Environment; a law that I know you do not like, but because it will not work is leaving it with a budget of zero euros. If they didn't like it, they could have improved it in six years. We are for the work and we have already brought more than one initiative in this legislature to give it a boost and I also know that other groups are interested in re-launching this law which is so important for the rural environment. We must therefore integrate agricultural activities, grazing, livestock and prevention programmes in order to control the emergence of fires in these most sensitive areas. As for the law of climate change, I think it has to be a cross-cutting law, but it cannot be a law of minimums. This is what the Socialist Party wants in the Commission, and that is why it wants all administrations to make commitments that are truly fulfilled. That is why we understand that they need to work more on awareness-raising of prevention to also enhance environmental culture. Administrations do have a responsibility in fire prevention, but all citizens of this country must be vigilant. We sent a bad message to society, minister, when two weeks ago the Socialist Group in the Senate brought a bill to return to the old drafting of the Mounts Act and avoid the possibility of requalification of calcined mountains - which is true that it is not the panacea - and we do not reach an agreement and when we are not more demanding with this type of legislation. We will also ask in the subsequent motion for a resolution to encourage structural legislative changes in the field of firefighting, which we will be presenting between today and tomorrow. As I said before, minister, not everything is being done well, management must be improved because we will not have many more opportunities. You must lead the coordination between all administrations and, above all, you must ask your Government, the Minister of Finance, for the necessary budget to improve these policies of protection of the natural environment and to recover the policies of sustainable rural development, because prevention in the fight against fires is not an option, minister, it is a necessity. That is why we are asking him today in this line, to improve prevention and not to trust everything to extinction; it must be improved and we must improve as a country, so that we will present a motion with measures that we believe are urgent and necessary to relax the social alarm that has been caused by the fires in Galicia and so that people living in rural areas can have the opportunity to continue living in a natural, rural, healthy and prepared environment to combat the challenges that climate change has brought us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u160	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u161	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, as they have little or nothing to contribute at government level to forest policy, they talk about climate change, but here their history is also very poor. This is a letter dated January 20, 2012, from the Climate Change Commissioner, which I can move to, where I was calling attention to Spain - January 12, 2012 - because we did not comply with Kyoto and we were going to put the compliance of the whole European Union at risk. Its climate change policy was €700 million to buy paper and fail to comply with Kyoto. That's what we inherited. Climate change policy in Spain begins in 2012. You spent a lot, but it was no use. We adapt the measures in forestry policy every year because each year we work with the autonomous communities, and many are governed by the Socialist Party. Our forest campaign, our fire-extinguishing campaign is not rigid. I have just told you that we have tripled the allocations for the month of October, and this year the campaign began earlier. What also happens is that the planes did not fly and were displaced to Galicia, but weather conditions did not allow it, and whoever set fires knew it. Brigadiers do work, they work most of the year. Look, the first signature of Minister Miguel Arias Cañete in 2012 was to prevent the brigade members from hanging, because they had been hung by the previous government. [[Show a document]] The next thing he did was a protocol of intentions between the ministry and the BRIF workers' association to extend the period of recruitment and give stability to recruitment. [[Show another document]] As I said before, the brigades today devote 65% of their time to prevention, 5% to extinction and the ministry has never been able to fail to respond to a request from the autonomous communities. But I also tell you - I honestly think so - that many of the things you have said are tremendously sensible, especially in your first intervention. It is essential to collaborate, it is essential that the State should be encouraged, coordination from the State with the autonomous communities is essential. The only thing I find is that it doesn't fit with what the PSOE does when it rules, although it does reflect what we've been doing for six years. I invite you, and I will thank you, to start working constructively. You are and will be fundamental in the climate change law, also in all forestry policy, both in the plan for the socio-economic activation of the forestry sector and in the current plan that we are developing with the autonomous communities, many governed by the Socialist Party. So you are in time to recover the eight years of abandonment by your Government of the environment, both in terms of climate change and forestry policy, as happened in the case of water. We are very aware of the challenge and responsibility that the conservation and management of the extraordinary natural heritage that we have in Spain mean. That's why in six years we've improved the whole system. Today we are the best prepared country and we have the best system, but - I insist - we do not settle because we can always improve. We have always met all the requirements of all the competent and last responsible autonomous communities. The best assessment is that of the Autonomous Communities, thanking us for the support provided by the Government, many of which, by the way, are governed by the Socialist Party. Today I invite you, also on account of responsibility, to put the accent on those who hold Galicia, not on those who extinguish or recover. You have to make something very clear that fortunately I think everyone knows: there are no fires for requalification or requalifications for fires. I urge you to condemn those who hold Galicia, Asturias or Castile and Leon, but not as the Socialist Party did in 2006, when twice as many hectares of what we all consider unacceptable today were burned in Galicia. At that time, the Socialist Government said that people should not be dismissed for not having been hired that year in the fire brigades. And if it wasn't the Brigadier's fault, then you blamed the Galician people, whom you described as people with very low socio-economic development, caciquil society, they said it was their poverty, their misinformation, and that the Galicians were afraid of their own weakness. Your Honor, among my many shortcomings there is one that I do not think I have, and that is that I like rigour and not demagoguery, but you must know that you did not do forest policy, neither good nor bad, so we cannot value it. You left the BRIF hanging, and in 2007, in full effervescence, when you proclaimed that the money was nobody's and that legitimized them to ruin the country, the policy that the ministry dedicated to the extinction of fires in the budget was 62 million euros; this year it is 85,5 million euros. In 2011 there were sixty-two air carriers; today we have seventy. I am grateful that they are adding to something so important in a constructive way, both in the fight against climate change and in forestry policy. Because, I insist, these are not policies that are improvised and made from year to year. I would like to conclude by expressing my gratitude and appreciation to all those who have contributed over the years to Spain having the best fire-fighting device in Europe because, I repeat, it is something that is not improvised overnight. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u162	Thank you very much. - the Parliamentary Group of the Republic of Moldova on the defence of the model of the Catalan school. [[File number 172/000075]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u163	We continue with the urgent inquiry of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, on the defense of the model of the Catalan school. For your defence, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u164	Members, Members, President, Minister of Education and, if democracy does not prevent it unduly and thanks to 155, future Education Adviser from Catalonia. The Catalan school has been, is and will be an example of freedom, coexistence, democracy, multilingualism. Minister, unfounded accusations and unscrupulous lies want to hostage Catalan boys and girls in order to break up together. The educational community and Catalan society will not allow it. In our school, in the Catalan school, as the associations of parents, teachers, directors and inspectors say, there is no indoctrination. It is one of the most important public services in a democratic society, in which day by day we educate on the values of peace, civicism, cultural diversity and the plurality of ideas and never in hatred, never. Minister, education is a public service that guarantees social and territorial cohesion. In our legal system, although some do not like it, the basic educational authority rests with the Autonomous Administration. Throughout Europe, and even in other territories, advanced and better-performing education systems are those that have been clearly committed to decentralization. Centralization does not involve equity, but rather uniformity. But, despite this, cyclically in Spain there is a tendency to standardize. We have seen in recent years a situation of this kind led by the Lomce, which is not abrogated and continues to be in force, despite a majority, in the paper, contrary in this Chamber. What the elections determined has not been fulfilled and the educational pact languishes, even more so if the Generalitat of Catalonia is intervened. Today, in front of the municipalities of the capitals of Catalonia, the educational community will concentrate in defense of our school to denounce, once again, among other things, that we educate and do not indoctrinate. And I know what I'm talking about. Minister, I confess to you that I am the fruit of indoctrination. I was indoctrinated at school. It wasn't a particularly painful experience, but it was frustrating. I remember it as a empty time, with scars that have healed over time. I remember the teachers of the Formation of the National Spirit who, by obligation or vocation, explained to me organic democracy, their laws, the symbols of the homeland and respect for the National Army. Does it come to your mind, minister, any proposal of your ministry turned into a future teaching unit? I remember the moustache cut and pipe of one of my indoctrinations, the face in the sun with the new shirt that you embroidered in red yesterday, with the arm up, that I have seen and heard again in not a few squares and streets of Spain with the same national flag but different shield: those who demanded in Barcelona, cutting the street, screaming Up Spain! as safe conduct to continue the road. There are many of us who have a feeling of déjà vu, of having seen it. This is indoctrination. I have seen it and suffered it in the first person and vaccinate me against any indoctrination of any kind, present and future. And the vast majority of Catalan teachers, because the roots of the Catalan school are born in the fight against Francoism, for an education in freedom, recovering our words that were taken away from us. Let us remember Marta Mata, the socialist leader who was in this Congress fighting for the Catalan school, let us remember the movements of pedagogical renewal, the schools of doctors and graduates, the summer schools, Ómnium Cultural and its night classes in Catalan; yes, the same institution that now presides from Soto del Real Jordi Cuixart. Freedom Jordi Cuixart! Freedom Jordi Sánchez! We want you home! We want you home! [[Applauds]] Our country, Catalonia, is very lucky to have a school, a public and concerted educational movement that for decades has felt a reverential respect for society and its rights. Indeed, we would not be what we are without all the teachers and teachers who have done so much for us. All of them allowed us to lay the foundations of the school we have today, of a process of linguistic normalization that has been a success, a success. And here I will insist on one of the obsessions of the party to which the minister and citizens belong, which was born, not by chance, in 2006, the same year that the Statute was promulgated. In all these years they have been necessary accomplices so that much of the powers of this Statute are dismantled by the Constitutional Court, despite being approved in these Courts and endorsed by the people of Catalonia. Of those dusts, these muds. In his schisms against the Statue there was, among other things, an obsession with the Catalan language: not to consider it the same as the Spanish language. Minister, the citizenship of the Catalan, Basque and Galician languages and cultures is not of a lower category than those expressed in the Spanish language. Nor, nor, of course, any more, but does not a clear supremacy of the Spanish language over the others lie in the language policies of the Spanish State? Have they not created in most Spanish monolinguals a general opinion that the supremacy of Spanish is the most natural thing? The Spanish language is an important language in the world and the Catalans and Catalans are proud to know it, to speak it and we hope that it will continue to be so, even in the independent Catalan Republic. But we cannot accept the implicit contempt of our language and the imposed supremacy of the Castilian. The proof of this supremacy is that in the institutions of the State, those that would be common to all peoples, Spanish-speaking or not, one can only use the Spanish language and not ours or the other recognized, even if we want to. Paradigmatic picture of it is Joan Tardà trying to speak in Catalan at the Congress of Deputies over and over again for years. In the meantime, it seems normal for you in the European Parliament to have translators, but it seems abnormal for you to have them in the Congress of Deputies. I know they tell us that we all know Spanish and that we must use it as a common language, so why do they claim Spanish as an official language and for use in European institutions instead of defending the logic that there are common languages, such as English or French, which are more spoken languages? They do so for one reason: they equate the Spanish language to the value of French or English, however, they do not equate the value of Catalan, Basque and Galician to Spanish. In the same way that you want your representatives to be able to speak in Spanish in the European Union, we want to be able to speak in Catalan in the state institutions; but they impose the demographic majority of Spanish speakers to impose Spanish on us; that is, Spanish. But it is even worse, since Madrid it is also decided what are the limits of the use of the normalization of our language in our land, and the Spanish parliamentary majority, Spanish speaking, is believed with the right to decide whether Catalan can be used in Catalan schools. If there is consensus in the Catalan institutions, if there is consensus in Catalan society, why is this questioned from the State institutions? Why is it normal for a child in Castile to learn in Spanish and not so much for a child in Catalonia to learn in Catalan? And they often answer us: For it is the common language. Let's see, at what historical moment did we decide the Catalans and the Catalans that we wanted a common language that was Spanish and not our own language? We didn't decide. If the Castilian is a common language it is by his historical imposition, from Philip V to Franco, and you maintain for this language supremacy and prebends. It is a historical injustice, because you still want to impose your vision of history on our vision, and you legitimize it by arguing that you are the guarantors of historical truth, while our historians, professors, institutions, are manipulators. I could exhaust the minutes I have left by providing reports that deny one of the falsehoods that has been said, that in Catalonia little is taught Spanish or poorly taught. Evidence of access to the university, PISA reports, their own reports, corroborate that this is false. I would like you to explain this to Minister Dastis, so that he no longer does ridicule in Europe by saying that Spanish is not taught in Catalan school. I'll end up with a personal experience. A few days ago, after October 1, I went to the public school in which my children, l'Coligi Verd, were studied, the Green College; yes, it is also where the daughters of the President of the Generalitat, Carles Puigdemon, are studied. At the entrance there were still hundreds of notes in the middle of flowers, as a reminder of one of the hardest loads made by the National Police in my city. A poem by Martí i Pol explains how we feel many Catalans: 'Now it's tomorrow. Don't scalding the fire yesterday/or the fire today, and we'll have to make new fire. / Of the great silence then, everything that is moving / is moving with the will to become. Translated to Spanish would be: Now it's tomorrow. It does not heat yesterday's fire or today's fire, and we will have to make new fire. From the great silence to here everything that moves moves with the will to happen. Minister, let's leave the Catalan school quiet; let's recognize the plurality of languages and talk about how to live together in this pell de brau. Thank you, Minister, for your attention. Thank you, President. School and Republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u165	Thank you very much. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Questioner, some of you know that I am a professional lawyer in this House and therefore I had to prepare for too many years ago an opposition to belong to the Body of Letters. Well, I must admit to you that when I prepared the opposition, and I saw what the government's control instruments could be used in this House, these two interpellations, last week's and that of last week's, were not envisaged, because they are interpellations launched into the air, not to the government. I have listened very carefully to what Mr Olòriz has said and, indeed, I do not feel challenged by what you say, because I believe that what you say refers to a series of prejudices that you have about government action that simply do not correspond to reality. Probably the explanation - you have also given it in your intervention - is that Formation of the National Spirit to which he was subjected when he was a child. But when I heard you talking about the work of the government, the laws of the government or what the government was doing, I thought: Who is this gentleman referring to? Of course not to this Government, nor do I think to any other Government. You have defended here the model of the Catalan school, and for the Minister of Education of Spain what makes sense to the management of competences in education is the success of the Spanish educational system. Therefore, for me, as Minister of Education, there is no better news than the good functioning of the various autonomous education systems. The better news there is in this regard, the better it will be for the national system. I have always defended our educational system. You and I, who are about the same age, know what education in Spain was like when we were children. I remember how education in Spain for me was an encounter when I did military service, because I found that there were a lot of illiterate people; we were in two digits in illiteracy and for me it was a harsh, unpleasant surprise. I believe that if we evaluate the Spanish educational system with the distance, with the forty years that have passed since then, we will see how the Spanish educational system has improved very markedly - in Spain schooling reaches almost 99%; we are far above the countries of our environment -, and we will also see how our system has managed to articulate around a distribution that seems to me reasonable, between public, public-concerted and private, and the data of the international organizations that speak of Spain also seems good, correct. There is no doubt that we still have too high early school drop-out data, but it is also true that they were very high, 30%, and that we are now at 18%. When this data is produced in an autonomous community and improved, it seems to me that we are in the right direction. Therefore, it must be said that when we look at the competences of the Spanish educational system in Pisa or in the next Timss and see that we are improving, that is positive for the whole system. You have said - and it is true - that the Spanish system is a decentralized system; it is extraordinarily decentralized; there is probably no European system in which the competences originating from the state - not from the federated states - and it is more decentralized than Spanish. That's the reality. So, what depends on the success of the system? It depends on good collaboration between the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Communities. It is also essential that there be good correspondence within the General Administration of the State in the exercise of compliance with the laws, and that the execution of the laws be carried out correctly. And, if we enter Catalonia, the overall results of your education system are correct. In reading comprehension, Catalonia is the seventh community in Spain - in front of Catalan students there are others -; in science they are the sixth community; in mathematics, the fifth, which is very well, and the international organizations recognize this. I think that, when we talk about education in Spain, the first thing we have to say is that education in Spain is reasonably good, especially if we compare it to what was before. As you know very well, because it is part of the subcommittee, we are now working on a social and political state pact for education in Spain and we are going to try to improve it; that is what we want. You referred to education in Catalonia and you also referred to Lomce. Your Honor, I believe that the Congress of Deputies was right when it found a solution that would allow us to maintain the existing educational laws while negotiating the educational pact. I know that your group voted against it, but I believe that the right thing was what we did: we found a very majority consensus, we did not repeal a law in the middle of a school year, which would have brought a lot of harm to the students, who are what we care about, and we managed to frame the debate and, in that sense, I will appear before the Education Committee this afternoon to see where we are. And I also think that, after forty years or thirty years of operating a very decentralized educational model, it is a good time to analyze things, to see what can be improved in that model and do it with the open look, not the defensive, not saying, "Hey, don't touch anything I've done or stopped doing. You don't have to see everything pink, because things aren't pink and can always be improved. I am in favour - I am going to say this afternoon - of not making a table of the Spanish educational model, but quite the opposite: of seeing what we can improve to make it more effective. And where can we make it more effective? On those issues or issues where we see that an improvement can be sought. You told me before that there was a contempt for the Catalan language for the People's Party government. That's totally false, Your Honor, totally false. You have given some examples - let me tell you this - very minor; in the end the contempt for the Catalan language is based on the fact that in the Congress of Deputies or in the Senate a Catalan deputy or senator cannot be expressed in Catalan. If you really believe that's the criterion, I don't think so. The best appreciation for the multilingualism that we have in Spain is the existence of educational models where education is guaranteed in the different languages of Spain that are co-official. That's normal, that works naturally, Your Honor, and we all see it. What, that model is absolutely perfect? Not once in a while, there are discrepancies. In Catalonia, how many children are in compulsory education? There are 1,400,000 children. Families have the right to choose the education of their children, as stated in article 27 of the Constitution. What's going on? That every now and then they find themselves in difficulties. How do they work out? They are usually resolved in a dialogue between the General Administration of the State, through the ministry, and the councillor. When I hear you say - you have not said it - that there are great controversies, I have to say - I say it clearly - that in the time that I have been minister, where I have coincided with the advisors Rigau and Ruiz, my relationship has been absolutely correct and we have resolved the vast majority of the discrepancies there have been. When we didn't solve them because we didn't agree, which also happens in life, what have we done? We have come to the courts and they will give reason to the General Administration of the State or the Autonomous Administration, but without that being a strange thing. It happens in all countries and it is normal that it happens. He has made a very sensible, passionate claim, and I respect the feelings - of course not! - but I think they do not correspond to reality. These things must be taken with absolute naturality, as we all take them, and as the Ministry of Education certainly takes them. It seems to us that there is at present no controversy, no conflict of any kind with education in Catalonia. What is it, Your Honor, what can happen? There may be specific cases where some parents understand that their right to education is not sufficiently safeguarded; in Catalonia and in any autonomous community. Well, that has to be solved. What have we seen these days in connection with the situation in Catalonia? We have seen performances in some schools that are shocking and there have been complaints because parents do not agree with some specific actions that have been made by some teachers as well. What has the ministry done? First - I said the other day in the inquiry - who has an obligation to inspect such cases, where a violation of the rights of parents or pupils can occur is the Autonomous Education Administration. That is the responsibility; that of the State, that of the ministry, is subsidiary, but if the other does not act or the complaint is made directly to the ministry, it is the ministry that acts. How does it work? According to the laws. He brings the complaints to the attention of the Autonomous Administration, tells her what they tell him, and asks her what she says. My obligation is that, and I have done so with two requirements, on 29 September and 6 October. I will wait for the reply of the Autonomous Administration, which is competent, and if the Autonomous Administration does not respond to me or does so in a way that I do not find appropriate, I will be able to go to the courts, because for me it is very important to safeguard the rights of families and children, but I am sure that you agree with me on that. Why do you agree with me on that? I'll tell you why you have to agree with me on that. [[Mr. Olòriz Serra makes negative gestures with his head]] Because you are a teacher, Your Honor, and you cannot consent, as I cannot consent, that by acts of certain people - you will have to recognize that there may be them, because you cannot know what is going on in the entire Catalan educational administration - in the end a speck of suspicion is cast over all education in Catalonia. That can't be. When someone fails to comply with the law, when someone does not behave properly, that person must be seen and punished, if necessary, for breaching the law, but no threat of suspicion must be posed over the entire system. You and I, even though you denied it with your head, have exactly the same interest in knowing whether there have been such reported situations. There is one very Spanish thing, which is arbitrariness. Arbitrariness consists in making individual behaviors a sort of Kantian moral category, and that cannot be because it ultimately harms the system. Your Honor, believe me, I am sorry for the prejudices that you have shown - I have already seen that you have explained to us what they are for -; I am really sorry, I am sorry. I'd like to do something to help you. Believe me that there is no urgency for this ministry against the Catalan education system; quite the contrary: I am very glad that it is going well and that it will help improve the overall results of the education system in Spain. And believe me that I will continue to fulfil my obligation wherever I am, and my obligation is to ensure that the rights and freedoms of all Spaniards are respected, and I will do so in Catalonia, Andalusia or Ceuta and Melilla; I will do so because it is my obligation and because the Spaniards have chosen me for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Olòriz Serra now has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u168	Mr Méndez de Vigo, Minister, future advisor, the truth is that in the time I have been in this Congress I am sometimes surprised by some bipolar responses. I don't know if I'm talking to the minister who answered Mr. Singing or the placebo minister who answered me. I do not know which one to choose: to the one who says in the press that condemns indoctrination and proposes to reform the Constitution to avoid it or to the one who said in Europe Budgets, on 11 October, that indoctrination is one of the causes of the crisis in Catalonia. I don't know if this is it because you haven't been the one who mentioned these prejudices, because you, who are also an age like me, know that no one is free from prejudices. It is true that their tone is illustrated, sometimes excessively suffocated, but each one has his own way of expressing himself, and in this case we have come to an element that I would like him to agree: that the Catalan school that works, does not touch and that those who will unfortunately suffer Article 155 will see a minister, who is called Méndez de Vigo, who says that he will act with the prudence that he said today, not with the recklessness of fifteen days ago. What I'm afraid is that I don't know which one we'll find in the next few days. Mr. Singing recently said in a rude and insulting way - it is his style - the same as you said later, challenging him, in a non-insulting way: that there was indoctrination. Today he has denied it, today he has talked about exceptions that can be made in any Spanish community, with which I agree, because the exceptions have to be analyzed and must be resolved. We can never legislate for exceptions and, therefore, linguistic normalization - you must admit - has been a success; that is, the school that Catalonia has had during these years has been a success. Minister, say so, because this will reassure many citizens. This is the crux of the issues: the whole thing is worth it when there is a political struggle, and when it comes to the unexpected situation to which it has arrived with Article 155. I said, "Let's leave school alone, let's not touch this school." It is not prejudiced to talk about the improvement in knowledge and respect for languages, which would be those that form part of this Spanish State. I told him one day that in Finland they speak Swedish 4 % and it is an official language there, let's not talk about other countries. You will recognize me - there is nothing but going out on the street - that there are a lot of people who are annoyed that you speak Catalan, Basque or Galician and say: Let him speak Spanish, let him speak Spanish! Pardon me, if you want an inclusive Spain, as Spanish would be Basque as Catalan or Castilian; If it were inclusive, but in reality it is not. I am doing this intervention in Spanish, not in Catalan, and I would have the right to do so. [[Rumors.-Sir Cantó García del Moral pronounces words that are not perceived]] Some will deny it because they do not just deny this right, deny many more rights; they are called liberals and are extreme right-wing. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral utters words that are not perceived]] This is something else, this is something else. [[Applauds]] Therefore, this does not go to me and does not come to me. I am talking to the parties that have been constitutionalists, which have achieved - as you have said and many others - a good school, improveable, because the cuts have done us much harm, in Spain and Catalonia, and we must reverse them. We are responsible for all those we have had government functions anywhere - and we have to recognize it - but the school has worked. If there is anything that has worked in this country is the school, let's defend it and let's not fall into the mermaid chants of the old far right, of the 'falangitos' that lead nowhere, that lead nowhere. I hope to find Minister Méndez de Vigo today in this for the next few days. We will see each other this afternoon and we will continue to talk, even if the hooligans speak to their ears that now is the time to achieve with 8% what they have not achieved with the elections - those who want to go much further - and I hope that they will not listen to them for the good of Catalonia but also for the good of Spain. [[Applausos.-Sir Cantó García del Moral: Golpista!-Sir Álvarez Palleiro: Golpista, supremacista!-Sir Garaulet Rodríguez: Golpista, coup!]] You disqualify yourselves with your words. [[Applausos.-Sir Cantó García del Moral: Golpista, couptista!-Mrs.Montero Gil: They are serious insults.-Sir Cantó García del Moral: It's a description]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, silence. [[The rumors continue.-Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent. I give the floor to conclude the debate, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I'm bipolar, Mr. Interpellant, I think. I think, because I have a bad habit of saying what I think - not everything I think, but what I say yes I think - that my answer to the questioner last week was the same as yours. You already know what Godeau said about the emphasis in the emphatic countries is natural. Perhaps when an intervention is more emphatic, more emphasis is placed. I said exactly the same thing I said today. What did I say the other day and what did I say today?: If there are specific cases, let's investigate them. And I have given him an argument which I believe is logical and important and which in this case benefits the school and, above all, the teachers in Catalonia: Let us not allow individualised, personal attitudes to graze the rest. You agree with that and so do I. Hey, but I didn't say anything else. - I didn't want to read either the name of the schools or the name of the teacher. I didn't want to do it because I didn't think it was right to do it. It seems to me that the serious and sensible thing, what should be done - not me, who act subsidiaryly, but the Catalan educational administration itself - is to open a file, see what is true - because we also have to see what is true and what is not true - and if there is irregularity sanction the person who is there. That's what needs to be done. That's what I said the other week and what I said today. I repeat that as Minister of Education I believe that the Spanish education system - now we have an opportunity to perfect it - has been good all these years. I also believe that we have a unique opportunity in this subcommittee, because I believe that there is a feeling between us and the public that we have not reached an educational pact in all these years. It would be good to provide that educational pact with stability and certainty. You mentioned Finland to me. In Finland they did exactly that. You know what they did? Once they agreed, they put in super-qualified majority conditions so that when a party with a very small majority arrived the government would not change it. Well, that's what we have to do. For that, Your Honor, I think we must also do a serious and sensible intellectual exercise: to remove prejudices and not to say: mine is phenomenal and I do not touch it, and not between you there. That's not it, either. Let's see what doesn't work and how we can improve it. I insist that I think we have a good opportunity right now, and I know that you are actively participating in that subcommittee. Let's try. Article 155 is an article of the Constitution and is an exceptional article for exceptional situations. But Catalonia is going through an exceptional situation, Your Honor, a situation in which the autonomous government, whose legitimacy comes from the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy, has violated the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy - that is to say - and has been set aside. What happened? That has had a reaction, that was just the opposite of what the leaders told us was going to happen: a loss of wealth, economic and social loss that is being seen every day. I see the cultural figures, which are also my ministry's and I care, and I am today seeing how prestigious cultural institutions, which I am not going to quote here, are losing, people are not going. And what is Europe telling you? Europe is telling them that the application of article 155 is absolutely constitutional because it is in the Constitution. He's also telling them something else, he's telling them that you can't place one outside the law. I have been, as you know, in the European Parliament for many years, and I have coincided with some of your correspondents, who now hold an important position in the Generality and another who also holds it. They know, like me, that this is the European position, that Europe is a community of law and that it will not tolerate, will not consent, will not accept, will not endorse a unilateral decision. That is the reality, and that must be said because it is the truth, and because there are many people to whom you have been telling exactly the opposite throughout this time. I think the truth is very important, because people, when they take a political position, take into account different elements of knowledge that give them, and if they are telling them something that is not true in the end they can come to a wrong decision. Therefore, if the Senate applies that section 155, I pledge myself to one thing, Your Honor, to do so with intelligence and prudence, which is what I have always done in my life, and I have not done so badly either. Do you know why? Because to me, especially in Catalonia and the rest of Spain, it is the students and the families, and we owe them. If it occurs what you have said, that I do not know - you seem to know it, it seems to know more than I know - I will act with intelligence and prudence and only concerned about students and their families. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u171	Thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY ON THEIR POLICIES TO GUARANTEE EQUALITY, REDUCE UNEQUALITY AND AVOID TERRITORIAL HEALTH FRAGMENTATION. [[File number 172/00076]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u172	We now turn to the urgent appeal of the Citizens Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality on her policies to ensure equity, reduce inequalities and avoid territorial fragmentation in the area of health. For your defense, Mr. Igea Arisketa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u173	Thank you very much. Minister, allow me, since we haven't seen each other since, to address you first to tell you that whoever paints the facade of your house paints mine, who threatens you or your family threatens mine, and who puts you on a list puts me at your side. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I will say one thing to Mr Oloriz and to all of us who are still in the House today. The September CIS barometer says one thing: that Spanish people who understand that health is among its three main problems are 10%, and Spanish people who understand that Catalonia's independence is among its three main problems are 7.8%. I propose one thing: follow Mrs Bescansa's words: How about we take care of those Spaniards today? What if today we take care of those Spaniards who are going to work, who pay their taxes and who are in an operating room waiting for their luck? What if we take care of those Spaniards who accompany their family in hours of pain or uncertainty? That's what I propose we do today. Article 3 of the General Health Act states that public assistance shall be extended to the entire population, that access to benefits shall be provided on an equal basis and that the policy shall be directed towards overcoming these territorial imbalances. That is what the General Health Law says, so we are here today to see if we comply with the law, whether this is true or not. We will start with spending, because the first thing is to know how much we each spend on health. What the Ministry's report on health expenditure 2015 says is that the Community of Andalusia spends 1090 euros per assisted population, per assisted person, while the Basque Country spends 1631 euros. That is a difference of more than 50%, but it is not a point difference; it is a difference that is repeated year after year, after year, after year, and whereas what Andalusia accounts for 6.4% of its GDP to the Basque Country accounts for 5.3% of its GDP. Perhaps when we talk about reforming the autonomous financing system we should already do something to try to ensure that this does not continue to be perpetuated, and to try to ensure that the Spanish are effectively equal before the law. But one might think that those differences in resources are management differences; there are people who manage better, people who manage worse, and that those differences in spending are not going to affect resources, but unfortunately it is not. The number of hospital specialists per 10,000 inhabitants is 1.5 in Andalusia and 2.33 in Navarre; the number of specialized care nurses is 2.3-2.6 in Andalusia, 4.37 in the Basque Country and Navarre. That's the difference, a difference greater than 50%. This means that system professionals working in parts of Spain have a 50% higher care burden than professionals working in another system. And we don't know that, we'll look at it later, but it might have something to do with the results. The same goes for the teams. If we talk about teams, according to all these data taken from the page of your ministry - you know it well -, in Andalusia the number of magnetic resonances per 100,000 inhabitants is 0.92, while in Basque Country and Asturias is 1.43-1.44, that is, again 50% more. We could detail scanners, hemodynamics units, a lot of other things. However, we might think that in spite of all this the benefits that the system provides are equal. Neither is this true. There is a system benefit, which has been mandatory since 2013, which is the early detection of colon cancer through feces-hidden blood tests. It is only 100 per cent established in the Basque Country, Navarre, La Rioja and Valencia, we do not reach 20 per cent of the population, according to the last report of the Spanish Association of Cancer Control in March this year. Do you know what that means? That means that we are losing our mortality by 30% or 35% with this system, and that means that there are 4,000 Spaniards a year who die because we are not doing things right, because the number of Spaniards who die from colon cancer a year is 16 000. We would have saved 4,000 lives a year if we were doing this. But it also means that there are first and second Spaniards. How much would this have cost us? It would have cost us 65 million euros - it is also calculated by the Spanish Association of Cancer Control -. How much do we spend on the C Virus Plan? We spent 17 billion euros. They were theoretically saved - mortality from secondary liver cirrhosis virus C - 2500-2600 people per year. This is the difference. What does this mean? That there are not only territorial inequalities, there are also inequalities between diseases and between pathologies. There are people who for some reason have more access than others, with diseases as deadly as each other. Has all this influenced the results of the different autonomys? Well, he's going to be surprised, but yes. Surgical mortality for every 100 high surgical units in the Basque Country and Navarre is 1.01 and 1.33% respectively, while in Andalusia Castilla-La Mancha or the Canary Islands is 1.84%, i.e. 80% more chance of dying after surgery in some communities than in others. I shall give another example: mortality from heart attack is 50% more in Navarre than in Valencia, and I do not know what Mr Alli's heart has than Mrs Bastidas' heart. This is the difference. And this is the map of inequality, this is the mortality from ischemic heart disease according to communities, which coincides - surprisingly - with differences in spending and differences in access. [[Show a document]] I could give you many more examples. The same applies to hip fractures. If Mr Martínez Oblanca - God forbid - falls down the stairs of his house and has to operate from a hip fracture in Asturias, the chances of doing so in the first forty-eight hours do not reach 20%. If it happens to Mr. Esteban, it'll be 65%. What does that mean? That the risk of mortality at one site or another also has a difference in hip fracture cases of 50%. That's the reality in this and other many pathologies that I'm not going to degenerate in its entirety. Inequalities are not just territorial, but unfortunately - and this must be said - we also have an increasingly dual system, a system for the rich and a system for the poor. The development of the crisis in our country has led to almost 20% of the population already having private insurance, to more than 20% increase in private health income, and to an increase of more than 4% in premiums year after year for private health. Besides, there are people who don't have access to treatment because they can't afford it. When we sign the government agreement with you, we sign a point that is still unfulfilled, but that we do not give up on its implementation. There are differences in the cocoons. All poor, low-income workers have type 3 cards, which account for 95% of the problems of adherence to treatment due to economic problems. We brought here a proposal to catch those workers to solve the problem where they were, but you surprisingly had an unexpected ally, the Socialist Party, who voted against our proposal to reduce the co-op for these workers. As much as they have voted against the problem is still there, the workers are still there, but we, who are stubborn - and some more stubborn still - will insist until the end of the legislature to try to fix this problem. But you know what happens to this? That within the same community and even within the same city, Madrid, there are differences in life expectancy from one neighborhood to another seven years. This is intolerable from our point of view. Not only are we unequal by communities or by money, we are also unequal in our performance, because after measuring performance and making it public we see that the performance of our hospitals and our optionals is very different. Some have more than 30% of first visits, others have more than 150% of ultrasounds per radiologist, others have more than 80% of surgical interventions within the same group of hospitals. The same applies to cesareans in the Community of Madrid, for example between 8 and 20 %. We have a system that is unequal by length, unequal by latitude, unequal by income level, but there is no difference. It is also unequal in how we treat our professionals and how we pay our healthcare professionals, with differences of more than 30% between communities. In short, what does all this mean? We have a system that is poorly managed, that is in serious danger, that quality and efficiency have not been adequately rewarded for a long time, that arbitrariness and free designation have undermined the hopes of professionals, professionals who flee the system at the rate of 3000 doctors a year who go abroad and another that go to private health. No Government has taken our health seriously for a long time. I will give you a list, the list of health ministers of the last ten years, Socialist Party-People's Party: Bernat Soria, two years; Trinidad Jiménez, a year and a half; Leire Pajín, one; Ana Mato, did not reach three; Alfonso Alonso, one and a half; Fatima Báñez, three months, and you yourself have been a year, let's hope it lasts longer. When you see this list you ask yourself: Gentlemen of the PSOE and gentlemen of the PP, what have we done to health professionals to make them take so little interest? What does the Ministry of Health have that's a place to run away? A year ago, at his first appearance, I asked him only one thing, which I don't know if he remembers. I said to him: Believe it, Mrs Montserrat, believe that you are a Minister of Health of the Government of Spain, because that is what we need: a Minister of Health who believes that he can really exercise his powers and change and reform a system that is seriously in need of someone taking him seriously once and for all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u174	Thank you very much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u175	Thank you very much, President. First of all, thank you very much, Mr Igea, for your loving words and for your support. That is true: violence can and must never fit into our democracy. Mr Igea, let me begin with the historic agreement we signed yesterday with doctors and nurses, always for the benefit of patients and healthcare professionals. [[Applauds]] It is an agreement based always on permanent dialogue since the beginning of the legislature, with great institutional respect and using an instrument as valid as the Professional Forum, where we are the ministry, where the two professions are, where the unions are and where two autonomous communities are always in rotation, currently Andalusia and Catalonia. It is a great historic agreement because it brings peace to the Royal Decree of Nursing Prescription. I would therefore like to thank all those who have participated in this agreement from here. The Government once again demonstrates this permanent spirit of dialogue and agreement, for the benefit of each and every patient in every corner of Spain. I appeal, from this dialogue and from this compromise of agreement, that we can start - and we have often talked about it with you, and so it was also approved in a motion in the Senate - to work in this legislature for a pact in health. We have a great opportunity that we cannot miss, so we must lay the foundations for this health of the year 2050, because with the demographic challenges ahead, with all the challenges we have in medicine and pharmaceutical policy, all the political forces have a great opportunity to reach an agreement and a state pact on health. I will be honest with you: health depends on many more factors than you mentioned today, and within a family some are sick and others are not. So let us be able not to introduce demagogic factors when we talk about health and be able to channel it into a state pact to put those foundations within this great National Health System that we have found ourselves, thanks to the efforts of professionals, patients and administrations, our parents and our grandparents during these forty years, and that we can leave our children and grandchildren this same health that we have found ourselves by 2050. I sincerely believe that Spanish health is one of the biggest assets of the cohesion of our welfare state, because it guarantees effective equity, quality and security. From the Government of Spain we work every day to ensure that patients receive quality care, regardless of where they live; we do so by implementing initiatives that guarantee equity throughout Spain, coordinating health measures with all the autonomous communities, thus contributing to territorial cohesion, and providing the highest standards of quality and safety through the optimization of the economic and care resources that we have. Firstly, we guarantee effective equity with the common portfolio of services of our National Health System, which is a guarantee for patients, who are all of us, of cohesion in Spain; a basic portfolio that is one of the largest and most comprehensive in the European Union, because it has more than 1500 benefits available to all citizens with a health card. It is also a portfolio that we analyze, review and update on a permanent basis with all the autonomous communities. For example, in the last interterritorial council in June we have expanded the portfolio of orthoprosthetics products, raising it to 41 more products, and therefore with a portfolio of 349 orthoprosthetics products. Our health system is constantly improving and updating; it is a living system that adapts to the socio-health circumstances of every moment, and therefore does not stop incorporating new medicines as well. There are already 235 therapeutic innovations that we have included since 2012, which have, for example, enabled 85 000 people affected by hepatitis C to be treated. In addition, 25% of these innovations have allowed us to focus on improving the treatment of cancer, and almost 10% on the treatment of heart disease. In 2015 we signed an agreement with the innovative pharmaceutical industry in favour of the sustainability of the health system, of greater agility in the development of therapeutic innovations, and above all of greater accessibility to innovations themselves for all citizens. We will soon sign cooperation agreements with the employers of generic medicines and biosimilars. The centralized purchase of medicines, vaccines and health products is another example of effective equity, because it allows the autonomous communities to purchase them at the best price and offer them to the citizens of their territories by guaranteeing stock and quality. With this we have made possible a savings of 47 million euros between 2012 and 2016, to which must be added the 103 million euros obtained with the centralized purchase of vaccines. This has therefore made it possible for the citizens of the autonomous communities that are members of this purchase to have the same medicines and health products. In addition, better supply planning is ensured, especially by avoiding shortages. With regard to cohesion, the Government has the inter-territorial council to coordinate with the autonomous communities that are responsible for management. In the ten months that I have been in the ministry I have already held nine plenary sessions of the sectoral commissions of my ministry, the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, and I have made one of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System; another is planned in two weeks and by the end of another year, because we are absolutely clear that we will only be able to coordinate more by working together with this great instrument, which is the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, where we are now working on a new regulation of the Council so that the agreements that we reach among all, the Government and the Autonomous Communities, are binding. This further strengthens the cohesion and equity of our National Health System. In the more recent past, for example, the Council has allowed us to approve what I have told you before, the common schedule of vaccination for children throughout the National Health System, which is an example of successful health care and the promotion of territorial cohesion. Let me also tell you - because it is an agreement reached with Citizens by the People's Party, which is the party that supports the government - about thalidomide. We had a debt to those affected by thalidomide in Spain, and thanks to you, thanks to Citizens, together with the Government and the People's Party, we have reached an agreement with which we put peace for all those affected by thalidomide. We are working on a plan involving an institutional commission, a scientific committee and a support office, which will serve to assess the people affected and their needs. Another representative example of greater territorial cohesion in health is service centres and reference units. People and their families with rare diseases know the difficulties they face in their day-to-day life, and thanks to these centers these patients receive the specialized care that best suits their needs, regardless of their place of residence. We have 255 centres, services and reference units active throughout the country that are distributed in 47 hospitals throughout the country. This helps us in early diagnosis and specific treatment, which is key in the development of this and other diseases, but it is also the ability we have to prevent them. We continue to work in the ministry with strategies of the National Health System in matters such as addressing chronicity, promoting health and prevention, patient safety or neurodegenerative diseases. All these strategies are always developed in coordination with the autonomous communities, scientific societies, patient associations, and are key not only to care and cure, but also to cohesive our country. If patients are the raison d'être of our National Health System, health professionals are the main active, and from the ministry we have undertaken two measures of great importance from the point of view of the human resources of our health system: first, framework agreements signed with doctors, nurses and pharmacists in 2013, where the State Register of Health Professionals was already planned, with the objective precisely of improving the management and planning - you were commenting now - of professional management throughout the country. The second important point is that we are working to materialize the most important public offer of employment in the history of democracy, agreed by the Ministry of Finance and Public Service with trade unions: Commissions, UGT and CIF. Thanks to this agreement we will call 129,700 places for healthcare professionals in three years, reduce the levels of temporality to 8% and achieve a 100 percent replacement rate. I would like to say more: Conference of Presidents, last January, where President Rajoy, together with the autonomous presidents, reached twelve agreements. The first agreement they reached was to work for an autonomous funding system where they put a lot of emphasis on health financing. These measures are therefore clearly a reflection of how public health policies undertaken by this Government strengthen our country's cohesion and equity. And now let's talk about quality and safety. In addition to that equity and cohesion, from the Government of Spain we work to provide the highest standards of quality and safety through the optimization of the economic and assistance resources that we have. We are currently working on a barrage of health damage to homogenize and increase the safety of both patients and professionals. We're about to sign a framework agreement with the patients. I said from the beginning of the legislature that I wanted this to be the patient legislature, and this framework agreement will allow us to be more proactive, co-participating and co-responsibility of patients throughout the country. In this same line of national and autonomous coordination we have designed a pilot project for the coordination of health care and social services, the social health service, by the National Institute of Health Management and the Institute of Majors and Social Services in the Autonomous Communities of Ceuta and Melilla, which we are already implementing; we wanted to move from the roles and reports in the social health sector and put it into operation, and we have therefore launched it through the Ingesa and the Imserso in the cities of Ceuta and Melilla where the ministry has competence. We therefore hope that we will be able to make active progress in the more immediate future of the National Health System, where social care and health care are two sides of the same coin. Finally, let me talk about e-Health. You always ask me in the electronic health control sessions. This is genuinely a great deal of physical and economic progress, but above all it is a question of taking a step further in innovation and technology at the service of health management. I do not agree with the data you have given, because the citizens are the first beneficiaries of these actions through the digital medical record, which is currently 77 % and therefore 36 million Spaniards have it; the electronic prescription, which involves 89,5% of those dispensed, and the individual health card, which amounts to 45 million cards in the Ministry's database. It is clear that interoperability is a matter of two, not just one, and therefore if one does not want the ministry it is more complicated, but I do say that we reached an agreement in 2013 between the ministry, together with Red.es and the autonomous communities, on the electronic prescription, the digital clinical history and the electronic individual health card; we have contributed 34 million euros and today, instead of four, there are nine autonomous communities incorporated in the field of e-Receta, which are Aragón, Canarias, Castilla-La Mancha, Castilla y León, Comunidad Valenciana, Extremadura, Galicia, Navarra and La Rioja, and I trust that the rest of the autonomous communities will follow us and join us. As a last resort, I want to say that we are working on innovation measures and the implementation of a new plan - since you were talking to me about differences in different autonomous communities as regards health technology devices - to update precisely the technological resources of the National Health System. Therefore, Mr Igea, I trust that we can continue to work, together with your group and the rest of the groups, for this great National Health System, which is made up of the patients and the great professionals we have, and continue to lead in efficiency, not only in Spain, but in the world. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u177	Minister, look how much I appreciate it, but if you ever answered me, it wouldn't be wrong. [[Applauds]] We have come to talk about equity and results, and there is a very famous poster hanging in some research centers that puts: I believe in God, others have to come with data. Well, that's what I want to tell you. He has told us about many things, since the nursing agreement that I also celebrate, and that I certainly do not know whether he has had a positive influence on having reached an agreement in nursing, on the opening of investigations by the prosecution regarding the functioning of the College of Nursing, and I hope that you too will help to improve this situation. He said he told us about different things, and the truth is he makes it easy for me because he always goes and takes out the C virus. I brought you this that you know, this is what you presented us to the Health Commission when we made a monograph on the C virus. [[Show a document]] Do you know what this is, ladies and gentlemen? They are patients treated for every million inhabitants according to the autonomous communities where they lived. There is a difference that is multiplied by four: from 2492 to 692; that is the difference of people treated per million inhabitants according to the autonomous community of residence. But you know what's most embarrassing about all this? That this was presented as it is here with the anonymized autonomous communities, without name. Citizenship representatives do not know which community has treated the most patients and which community has treated the least patients. This is what we wanted to talk about today, the inequality in access to treatments, the inequality in access to therapies in our National Health System according to the community of residence, according to income. I am glad to hear you talk about thalidomide, because I hope that the money will be in the budget to start paying compensation, as agreed. I hope we have a budget, I hope it is not one of so many things that, thanks to the unconsciousness of some, the Spaniards are left without it because we are left without a budget. He also told us about the CSURs. You know that since the Cohesion Fund disappeared - we in our agreement have also repeatedly called for an increase in the Cohesion Fund - the difficulties of patients in accessing the CSFs are enormous. We have all received in the Health Commission patients with muscular dystrophy, with child brain tumors, who have genuine odysseys to reach the CSURs since the Cohesion Fund disappeared, because communities resist to derive them. That is the reality unfortunately and not another. She told me about Ceuta and Melilla, the truth is I'm so benevolent that I didn't want to talk about Ceuta and Melilla. I simply ask you to look at the key indicators of the system, look at the results of Ceuta and Melilla and wonder if what we are doing in Ceuta and Melilla is decent - let's say so -. I'll show you something to make the day a little happy. [[Show a document]] See this? Do you remember? I do remember, I remember when I had my two children. During this one-year period 400,000 children have been born in Spain. Do you know what that means? Twelve children have been born with severe combined immunodeficiency, a very serious disease that is fatal in 50, 80 or 90% if not detected, and is detected with a heel test that is done in some communities yes and others not. That means that in Spain at this time, the fruit of our inaction, the fruit of our inability to convene an interterritorial council and put it as a benefit of the system, a test worth 7 euros, during this year eight children like these will have died the fruit of our inaction. Behind the numbers, behind the charts are people, human beings who suffer and need a Ministry of Health that believes in itself. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u178	To conclude the debate, the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u179	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr Igea, you know better than I the skills we have transferred to the Autonomous Communities. That is why the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System is so important, and that is why it is so important to achieve the amendment of this regulation, in which we have been working since the beginning of the legislature, so that the agreements are truly binding. This will enable us to work better on equity, cohesion and the quality and safety of the National Health System. And that is why it is so important to base it on institutional respect and, above all, on constructive and ongoing dialogue with the autonomous communities. This is my will and my commitment since the beginning of the legislature. That is why I have told you that in eleven months there have been nine interterritorial councils throughout the ministry. This is important because it shows that in the ministry we are working, dialogue and constantly agreeing to improve equity, cohesion and security. I want to say one thing to you, because sometimes we complain and I think it is worth putting in positive value what National Health System we have, what our patients think, what our citizens think and what they also think abroad. We have a National Health System recognized in Spain and also recognized outside our borders. What do our Spanish patients say? The last health barometer says that 86% of Spanish patients value primary care very positively in our system; 79% for specialists, and 75% for emergencies. Therefore, the overall score of patients in our National Health System is 6.5%. So, what do they say outside about us? Well, outside they say we have the best and most efficient public health system. The Lancet magazine, one of the most important specialized magazines, says so. Bloomberg also speaks of our National Health System as one of the best in the world. For example, The New York Times produced a medical publication stating that Spain had one of the best national health systems in the world; and WHO, in terms of the treatment of hepatitis C, rated it as impressive results, also in management. Therefore, we have achieved this through the efforts of all over these forty years and we have to continue together with this great effort. That is why I sincerely believe that we have a great opportunity to start working on a state health pact. In the pact that the People's Party, which is the party that supports the Government of Spain, together with its parliamentary group, we work on the agreement in thalidomide, transparency, investment, universality and electronic health. On the subject of thalidomide, you and I have worked together, we have the scientific committee, the institutional commission to recognize on a case-by-case basis and to compensate those affected, and it is true that we need the general budget of the State. On the part of the People's Party there will surely be no lack of support for the general budget of the State. As for transparency, we are finalizing the transparency portal of the National Health System that we will make real, if God wills, before the end of the year. This will increase the level of information available, as well as its accessibility to all and, above all, the publication of the waiting lists you mentioned, which will allow us to make decisions to make progress by collecting the good practices that will be seen on the transparency portal. In investment I have mentioned, one, the Conference of Presidents and the working group on autonomous financing, with emphasis on health financing; and, two, in the 2017 budget, an additional €53 billion for the autonomous communities, to invest it in what our citizens really need, which is above all education, health and the welfare state. As for universality, we all know that what the royal decree of 2012 achieved is that all Spaniards had the right to public health. I was a lawyer and I had no right to public health; this is a reality. A minister of health, today, can say that before the royal decree she had no access to public health. Therefore, we made it accessible and universal to each and every Spaniard. And as far as electronic health is concerned, of course we have to finish improving it, but we are much better than in 2011. As far as the implementation of e-Health is concerned, in 2011 the percentage of e-prescription was 50%, now we are at 89% and only had a digital medical record 6 million people and now they have 36 million. Therefore, we are improving, and it is true that in some autonomous communities we find ourselves with problems regarding the health card, but they are the exception and not the norm, because really all Spaniards have access to our National Health System. I conclude by telling you that our system is undoubtedly an example of agreements reached, of challenges achieved and, above all, of a great deal of effort. We demonstrated it yesterday with the agreement reached between nurses and doctors; we demonstrated it in 2013 by signing an agreement also between these two professions; we will soon sign with the patients; we are also working on the regulation of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System; we have signed an agreement with the pharmaceutical industry and we are working together with all the autonomous communities in the Renovation Plan, but above all we have to work on that state pact. Therefore, Mr Igea, I trust your support, that of your parliamentary group and that of the rest of the House, for the forthcoming General State Budgets, because they are the continuation of our common country project for a stronger, stronger and future health. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-25-CD171025.u180	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is adjourned. It was one and ten minutes in the afternoon.
