ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Firstly, questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u2	Minister, in recent weeks we have been able to see how the international media have bought a version of the events in Catalonia that fully coincides with that offered by the coup authorities. How is it possible that, as we have a real outside service, with so many people, with so many officials on the ground, who charge from the public purse, a private diplomacy, through Diplomat, has managed to create in the international imagination the idea that today's Spain has something to do with Spain of Francoism, that with regard to the policemen who had been assaulted, the fact that they had been assaulted, that there had been violence that had caused 800 wounded, without anyone being able to explain the real numbers, the real figures? How is it possible that the private diplomacy of the Generalitat de Catalunya is more effective than the entire Spanish foreign service? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u3	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u4	Thank you very much, President. Your Honour, you in your question assume that the battle - as you call it - of communication at the international level is being won by the secessionist government. I'm telling you, it's not, and I'm referring to the evidence. There is not a single government or a single international or supranational organization that supports the postulates of secessionism. It's very simple, we tell the truth and they don't. Secessionists have to invent a story and squander huge resources from everyone for someone to buy. Faced with that false account, we do not have to invent anything, we simply show the world what we are: a democratic and social state of widely decentralized law that guarantees dialogue within the law. A state that is a member of the European Union, the most demanding club in the world in terms of rights and freedoms, and that is how we explain it to our interlocutors and how they understand it. This is the same message that we also transferred to the media - I myself have had multiple meetings with the main media in the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Germany - and so does our network of embassies. Obviously, this task has intensified over the past few weeks and will continue as long as necessary. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our ambassadors and our diplomatic service for the enormous effort they are making. And to them and to this House I say that we will persevere in this line and we will win that battle on all their fronts, including that of communication. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u6	You do not have to convince me, Minister, that the governments of the European Union, the European Council, the Commission and, recently, Parliament support the Spanish constitutional order and are not going to allow for the secession of a part of a territory of a Member State through the events that have taken place. Of course not! That is because in the Treaty on European Union, in Article 4.2, that is perfectly established because the most important states of that club have their own problems with some communities that would also ask for their own secession referendum. You do not have to convince me that this is a European political and institutional reality. What I regret is the absence of a communication strategy that has explained clearly and in time that in 2012 - not now, in 2012 - there were already sixteen pronouncements from the European Union stating that an independent Catalonia would remain outside the Union. And that has only been recognized very recently in Catalonia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u7	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u8	Thank you, President. More and less serious international means are created by the propaganda of the secessionist Government. It's no coincidence that they have characters like Assange or Farage at their side. How they won't be by your side if they're teachers in the techniques of misinformation! We are informing - not disinforming -, we do not tell half truths. Their strategy in English is called fake news, in Spanish it's called lying. We don't need to lie or resort to propaganda or buy spaces in the press. They do, you know why? Because it is the only way they have to hide what they really are: a destructive force that aims to defeat democracy, destroy the rule of law and put the European area of freedom at risk... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Theophila MARTÍNEZ SAIZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS AND COOPERATION: WHAT VALUE DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF MANAGEMENT THAT HAVE POSSIBLE THE RETURN OF SPAIN PRESS FROM PERU CARDS SPAIN? [[File number 180/00368]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u10	She is now asking about the deputy of the People's Parliamentary Group, Doña Teófila Martínez Saiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we know that public policies must be guided and oriented - as is the case with justice - every day to solve citizens' problems and to respond to their needs and aspirations. As it could not be otherwise, the Government also places the Spaniards who are in other countries for different reasons at the centre of its foreign policy outside our borders and aims to defend their interests. It is our embassies and consular services that are providing the most useful, modern and effective service, and in a very priority way in the case I am going to expose you. We know that the Government, within these services, is doing an important job to improve the situation of Spanish men and women who are in prisons abroad. He begins his work from the moment of his arrest, providing them not only with information and assistance but also with regular visits, continuing to monitor their situation and the evolution of their processes, providing financial and other assistance. At present there are more than 1100 Spanish detainees around the world and all of them receive this type of assistance. Usually, the conditions in which they are in these prisons are precarious, difficult and sometimes even dangerous, affecting their families, too, which from a distance they can do for them. Last March we were able to see that the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our embassies and our consular services resulted in thirty-one Spaniards being imprisoned, or having just served their sentences in prisons in Peru, returning to Spain; a few months later, on 29 September, another sixty-seven joined. Given the enormous importance that such an action has, which represents a substantial improvement in their lives for these Spaniards and their families and which, moreover, is an experience that can undoubtedly serve us all - especially the Government - in order, given the results, to apply it in other countries immediately, I wanted, Minister, in addition to congratulating you on the task, to inform us of the efforts that have made possible in time the return of Spanish prisoners from the prison of Peru to our nation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u12	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u13	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation naturally makes a very positive assessment of the return of prisoners from Peruvian prisons to Spain. It is a sign of the excellent state of relations between Spain and Peru and also of our efforts, let me tell you. As your honor certainly knows, consular protection and assistance to Spanish prisoners abroad is one of the top priorities of our foreign policy; it is the reflection of the logical sensitivity that the situation of our prisoners abroad awakens in Spanish society. As part of this policy, Peru has for years been the subject of special attention; it is the country that has the largest number of Spanish prisoners abroad. This was coupled with the fact that many of them wanted to be transferred to Spain to continue serving their sentence and that their conditions of detention were often harsh and could only be mitigated in part by the dedicated work of the Spanish Consulate General in Lima, who regularly visited them and provided them with financial aid. After a time of joint work, an agreement was reached with the Peruvian authorities that materialized in my visit to Peru last March and has had a second materialization, which you mentioned. As I say, the last flight took place at the end of September. I would like to point out that these could not have been achieved without the coordination and assistance of the Spanish Ministries of Justice and the Interior. There are still 138 prisoners in Peru and, although it is no longer the country with the largest number of Spanish prisoners, they have no doubt that we will continue our efforts, in coordination with our Peruvian friends, whose collaboration I deeply appreciate. All this in order to ensure that all those who wish to continue their sentence can do so as quickly as possible in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u14	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF FRANCESC XAVIER DOMENECH SAMPER, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: DOES THE GOVERNMENT intend to implement more exceptional measures to address the political crisis with Catalonia? [[File number 180/00360]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u15	Questions now to the Minister of the Interior. Question by Mr Don Francesc Xavier Domènech Sampere, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u16	Thank you very much, President. Does the Government intend to implement more exceptional measures to resolve the political crisis with Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u17	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Domènech, the Government has not taken any exceptional political action in Catalonia. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u20	I was about to applaud myself, too, because I think your answer explains almost everything, everything that's happened to us. [[Laughter]] That you say that there is no measure of exceptionality at this time with Catalonia is to deny the reality itself. We are experiencing moments of enormous political and social tension both in Catalonia and Spain and this can only be described as a state crisis. If you haven't taken any action on this... [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, dying to close your eyes, which Max Aub said directly. This crisis is not solved by applying the same measures that have taken us here, which are basically repressive measures, because you said that on 1 October - in fact, you have a direct responsibility in this, Minister - it would not be celebrated, that there would be no ballot box, that nothing would happen in Catalonia and, in fact, you put your victory so dear to a citizen who wanted to express himself freely that you did not know how to live the moment but like a defeat, a failure, and a failure directly to you, Minister of the Interior. But, anyway, this is not about victories or defeats, or ephemeral victories of some that end up being permanent defeats of all. Yesterday we took a step towards distension, towards the descalation of the situation, a step that followed the path of the vast majority of Catalonia and now I think it would be up to you - you too, Minister of the Interior - to move the record. Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, said that a declaration of independence had not to be produced in the case of Catalonia, but he also said other things. He said that this was resolved not by police measures but by dialogue, and he said this directly referring to the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy. It is something similar to what eight Nobel Peace Prize winners have said these days, which have clearly stated that this was resolved with dialogue, with solutions like Quebec or Scotland, and have also said it twelve world leaders such as Kofi Annan or Jimmy Carter. We need, Minister of the Interior, intelligence, which is what you have shown you do not have with this answer; we need intelligence and dialogue. [[Rumors]] To end, a town that feels repressed rarely disappears silently in the night... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u21	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister, I ask you to remain silent, especially in this monitoring session or in any control session, because time is very limited. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u22	Thank you very much, President. Mr Domènech, I am surprised that today you have been raised up in whom you should value or not each other's intellectual coefficient. I want to tell you that we have not taken any exceptional measures in Catalonia. What we have done, first of all, is to adopt a series of measures, not exceptional but provided for in the Constitution and in the law in force. Why did they take it? It is precisely to respond to the threat against democracy, the rule of law and the freedoms of each and every citizen in Catalonia. Secondly, we have not taken these measures to solve a political problem - as you say in your question - they have been taken to solve the problems that have arisen as a result of the irresponsibility of those who have broken the law, disobeyed the Constitutional Court and put at risk the coexistence of the rights and freedoms of all Spaniards living in Catalonia. Thirdly, the Government has not only taken these measures, but has also complied with the requirements of the judges and prosecutors, which the police and the Civil Guard have had to comply with. I assure you, Mr Domènech, that the State Security Forces and Bodies have confined themselves exclusively to fulfilling the requirements of the judicial authority. The judicial authority said that the referendum was null and void and that, therefore, they had to take all measures to prevent it from being held, to seize all the documentation they found and to requisition the ballot boxes, etc., which was what they said every time they went to a school and, however, at times they had a very violent resistance that at times they had to overcome. Mr. Domènech, you start from the premise that there has been a referendum and I tell you that there has been no process that can be considered as a referendum in Catalonia and therefore you have no value in what you are presenting as a result of the so-called self-determination referendum, and the Central Electoral Board says... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u23	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. IONE BELARRA URTEAGA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT MEASURES DO YOU THINK TO TAKE THE GOVERNMENT, INCLUDING LEGISLATIVES, TO COMPLETE WITH THE SENTENCE OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS WHICH DECLATES ILEGAL DEVOLUTIONS? [[File number 180/00362]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u24	Question now by Mrs Ione Belarra Urteaga, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos In Comú Podemo-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u25	Thank you, President. Minister, what steps does the Government intend to take, including legislation, to comply with the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights declaring so-called hot returns illegal? As you are well aware, these sentences are not merely declaratory, but are binding and a condemned Government like yours must take all necessary measures to comply with this sentence. So, tell us what they're planning to do.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u26	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u27	Thank you, President. Your Honour, as you are well aware, this judgment is not final and the Government has three months to be able to analyse it carefully, given the circumstances in which it has been handed down and the sensitivity of the matter. It is therefore understandable that it should be studied in a thorough manner. Once the sentence has been studied and we have also shared it with the partners of the European Union, given the need to share our migration policies, we will make a decision and before it is even made, I will send you what the decision, which the Government of Spain makes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u28	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u29	Thank you. Honestly, I don't know if you've read the sentence, but I recommend you do it because it's very clear. What the sentence says is the same as human rights organizations, international bodies such as Acnur, the Council of Europe or the Ombudsman's Office have been reporting for years, and it is that hot returns are nothing but collective expulsions, and collective expulsions are expressly prohibited in article 4 of Protocol 4 to the European Convention on Human Rights; collective expulsions that violate the Geneva Convention and the principle of non-refoulement; expulsions that violate the right to legal aid, the right to appeal, the right to an interpreter, which in fact prevents a person from saying whether he is an asylum seeker, a victim of trafficking or a minor. What you demonstrated yesterday in the Senate is that you are completely unaware of the asylum procedure when you say that you can know whether a person is an asylum seeker or not when he is being beaten or expelled through the Ceuta and Melilla interval. These returns, moreover, you know very well that they are very dangerous, that seven women have recently died in the midst of a hot return by sea and that many people have suffered ill-treatment when they have been returned by auxiliary forces to Morocco. So I say to the rest of the groups that we now have an opportunity; we have the opportunity to legislate in this House to ensure that human rights are respected, to ban hot returns and to demand a protocol for the action of the State Security Forces and Bodies on the southern border, and it is through the reform of the law that we are bitten. You tried to put and legalize in the law gag through the back door something you couldn't legalize. And I make it clear to you: you have to repair the victims and repair them as soon as possible. I make it clear to you: a worthy Government bends its head when a judgement is handed down by the Court of Human Rights; a worthy Government fights impunity by investigating to the end, contributes to justice and reparation, and, above all, prevents the repetition of shameful facts like this. A worthy government doesn't get too chubby when... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u30	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I'm going to give you a thought. I believe that we must clearly distinguish between those who want to enter Spain irregularly, even by using violent acts, and those who want to enter Spain on a regular basis and who seek the right of asylum; I think we have to differentiate it. When it comes to talking about Ceuta and Melilla, and above all about the migratory pressure they are suffering, we must give up some demagogy, because who of all those who sit here has no sensitivity and sometimes causes a tremendous penalty for the situation in those circumstances? I think everyone. What I want to say to you is that in Ceuta and Melilla whoever you want can apply for asylum and you don't have to come and start climbing Don't tell me no, because, Your Honor, they have applied for asylum until June 2017 at the border in Melilla, 864 people, and in Ceuta they haven't asked because they don't get to the border, as the Moroccan authorities don't leave them. [[Mrs. Belarra Urteaga makes negative gestures]] But in Melilla, where they can get there, they've been welcomed, and every time someone wanted to do it in Ceuta, we've done it too. In Brussels, the application of border refusals has been endorsed and, therefore, the European Commission considers that Spain's migration policy in Ceuta and Melilla, including border rejection in the fence, is compatible with the European Return Directive. However, as we want to change migration policies, we are going to deal with all this within the European Union and we are ready to improve systems, but there is no doubt that we also have to protect borders; we have to protect Schengen law, but at the same time we have to protect those who have the right to asylum. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON FELIU-JON GUILLAUMS I RÀFOLS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE INTERVENTION OF THE SAFETY FORCES OF THE STATE IN CATALUNE ON OCTOBER 1? [[File number 180/00359]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u32	Question by Mr Feliu-Joan Guillaumes i Ràfols, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u33	Thank you, President. How does the Government rate the intervention of the State Security Forces in Catalonia on October 1st?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u34	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u35	Thank you, Madam President. I have just said this before, the State Security Forces and Corpses, the National Police and the Civil Guard, are deployed, in the use of their own security obligations, in the Catalan Community and there are also some mechanisms that have been strengthened. Compliance by all, those who are habitually and those who have arrived, is a scrupulous respect for the norm, exquisite professionalism and at the same time proportionality in the means employed. They have had to act at the request of the judicial authority to prevent an illegal referendum, which was constituted as a genuine paripé. I insist, they have also had to cover the shortcomings that others have produced and what I can assure you is that there has been scrupulous and respectful compliance with the rules, with proportionality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Guillaumes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u37	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is a good birth to be grateful. I wanted to express my gratitude to all parties, entities and individuals from all over Spain who have been supportive of the situation in Catalonia during these days, not for their sympathy for sovereignism, but for their simple sympathy for democracy. [[Applauds]] Minister, how would you tell him? People dragged by the hair for the simple fact of being in a queue, people thrown down stairs, people against whom police defense has been used when their hands were raised or even on their backs, 893 wounded..., 893 wounded! [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u38	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u39	... hundreds of complaints... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u40	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u41	... the commissioner of Human Rights of the Council of Europe asks for an investigation, condemns in an editorial of Le Monde, of Libération, of Süddeutsche Zeitung, editorial of The Economist, editorial of The Guardian, editorial of The New York Times, editorial of the Washington Post, convictions of Desmond Tutu, Jimmy Carter, Kofi Annan, Ban Ki-Moon. The list of countries would have no limits. Condemnation of Scotland, of the Prime Minister of Belgium... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u42	Silence, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u43	...of the Prime Minister of Slovenia...,
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u44	One second, Your Honor. I remind all your ladies and gentlemen that they have an obligation to listen to the speaker and I ask you, please, to remain silent. If not, I will be forced to call your ladies and gentlemen to order; I will be running out of time because I would have to call many of your ladies and gentlemen, so please let's have a normal control session, ladies and gentlemen; normal. Go ahead, Mr. Guillaumes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u45	Thank you for your protection, President. ... sentence of the Prime Minister of Scotland, sentence of the Prime Minister of Belgium, sentence of the Prime Minister of Slovenia, sentence of the head of the British Labour Opposition Corbyn, sentence of former candidate Mélenchon of France, sentence of the spokesman of the Czech Republic, sentence of the President of Finland, sentence of the Swedish Liberal Party, sentence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Lithuania, and so on, but sometimes an image is better than a thousand words. You know the famous and prestigious newspaper The Economist, right? This is The Economist's cover the next morning. [[Mr. Guillaumes i Ràfols shows the newspaper The Economist.-Applause]] Spain, dropping that one. And bread in English doesn't mean pity, it means pain. This headline sums up perfectly what you did, gentlemen. An image is worth more than a thousand words. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. [[Rumors.-Mr. Iglesias Turrion: A little respect!]] One second, Minister, one second. [[Pause]] Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, yesterday I had to listen to a lot of lies in the Senate and today I have had to listen to them again here and I find it embarrassing that they be used. [[Applauds]] They have used images that do not correspond to reality, nor that cover that has exhibited nor many of the injuries that were displayed there, which later did not correspond to reality. The only reality here is that the prosecution has already said in Judgement No. 7 that the force employed has been proportional. This is also determined by the European Commission, which says that it is the duty of every Government to maintain the rule of law and that sometimes requires a proportionate use of force. Do you know what the problem is? That there has been no referendum. And there has been no referendum either by the subject who summoned him, who was incompetent; nor by the manner in which he did so, in violation of firm decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Superior of Justice of Catalonia; nor by his object, which was unconstitutional; nor by the notorious lack of guarantees, objectivity and transparency in his development, scrutiny and control. And that's what the president of the Central Electoral Board says. There has been no referendum, it has been a paripé and you are using it as an excuse, as a pretext. [[Applauds.-Protests.-Mr. Majoral Perales: Stop now, pyromaniacs! Pyromaniacs!]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CELIA ALBERTO PEREZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE BILATERAL MEETING BETWEEN THE MINISTERS OF THE INTERIOR OF SPAIN AND ITALY DO TO STRENGTHENING COOPERATION AND THE FIGHT AGAINST IRREGULAR IMMIGRATION? [[File number 180/00367]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u48	Question by Mrs Celia Alberto Pérez of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you will allow me to move on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group in advance our support to all the national police and civilian guards who are currently stationed in Catalonia by ensuring compliance with the law and guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of all citizens against those who are trying to endanger our rule of law. [[Applauds]] Having said that, and focusing already on what we are dealing with, we know that last September there was a bilateral meeting with its Italian counterpart to discuss matters of greatest interest to Spain and Italy. We have been moved that during that meeting issues such as the fight against jihadist terrorism, the fight against irregular immigration, the situation of migratory flows in the Mediterranean or the European asylum policy were addressed, specifically addressing the relocations and resettlements of those who are considered as asylum-seekers. Next Monday, the G-6 Summit of Ministers of the Interior will be held in Spain to continue to address these issues of vital importance for the whole of Europe. We know that it is a priority of this Government to continue to work towards comprehensive solutions to very complicated issues, where sensitivity, firmness and common sense must be shown. It is clear that migration policies need a comprehensive solution. We cannot only take care of our borders and forget the underlying problems that give rise to migratory pressure. That is why countries such as Spain, Italy, France and Germany need to raise awareness with the rest of the European Union to understand that, even if they are in the north or the centre of Europe, immigration is a common issue. That is why, Minister, we would like to know what the Government's assessment is of the bilateral meeting held between you and your Italian counterpart to strengthen cooperation in the fight against terrorism and also against irregular immigration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u50	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u51	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor. Indeed, on 14 September last we had a meeting with the delegation of the Ministry of the Interior headed by myself with the Italian Minister of the Interior and his delegation, because logically we had certain common problems. First, we were dealing with the issue of migratory pressure. It is a serious problem and we have similar circumstances, not to say almost identical. To this day the situation that Italy has been going through, with a very important migratory pressure, has even led to the need to take action. We share them with them before they were taken and the truth is that they have produced and greatly reduced the loss of human lives in the central Mediterranean area. Moreover, the migratory pressure they have been suffering has also been lower. We have shared the criteria, we have congratulated them because they have done very well and we are helping them to continue to intervene in Libya, as we have done in Mauritania, Senegal, Niger and also in Morocco and Algeria. This collaboration with the countries of origin, with the countries from which immigration arises, is essential because the problems have to be solved there, in situ so that they do not have to leave. Secondly, we have been addressing all the problems related to jihadist terrorism; it is about strengthening international cooperation, providing information and, at the same time, making more precise use of the liaison magistrates we have in the two nations and those responsible for the Interior who are in each of the embassies. That was another of the fundamental missions. Finally, to unify our common asylum policy, the position that Spain and Italy are going to maintain because we share the problems and, since we have great migratory pressure and we are the external border of the European Union, we want to lead and lead the solutions to the migratory pressure so that it is not other countries that are going to impose them on us. Those were the main missions we had commissioned. The result has been satisfactory and we will continue with the rest of the G-6, also inviting Morocco, the United States and the Commissioners of the European Union so that next Monday we can take concrete steps to enable us to continue to make progress in the fight against terrorism and organized crime and improve migration policies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT REFLECTION DO YOU SUPPORT THE DEVELOPMENTS THAT HAVE BEEN LOCATED IN CATALOUNA THE LAST DAYS? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00366]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u53	Question to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality of Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo of the Basque Parliamentary Group:
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u54	Good morning. With all the respect that Mrs Montserrat deserves me personally - and she knows it - this group does not feel serious or welcome that, in a matter as far-reaching as Catalan, a question addressed to the Vice-President of the Government on a matter which the Vice-President is specifically responsible for diverting the Minister of Health. Therefore, I withdraw the question. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u55	Mr Esteban, I am sure you are well aware of Article 108 of the Constitution and Article 188(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Minister, if you want to answer, you can do it. [[The Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, Montserrat Montserrat, makes negative signs]] Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA MERCÈ PEREA I CONILLAS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO TAKE TO KEEP THE PENSIONIST'S ACQUISITIVE POWER? [[File number 180/00374]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u56	We turn to the question addressed to the Minister for Employment and Social Security of Mrs María Mercè Perea i Conillas of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u57	Thank you, President. The year ends and you have not yet given your opinion on the mandate given to you by this House a month ago in order to regain the purchasing power of pensioners. What steps does the Government intend to take to maintain it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u58	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Mercè Perea, believe me that I thank you for asking me for pensions, for asking me today and for doing so as a Member of Parliament for Catalonia, because I believe that it is precisely up to me and you today to send a message of calm and trust to pensioners from all over Spain, and particularly to those living in Catalonia; to tell them that, despite what some say, no one is going to break the Social Security box, the one and only Social Security box, which is the one we have given among all Spaniards and the one that allows more pensions to be paid today in Spain, to more pensioners and higher than ever. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u60	Thank you very much. Mrs. Perea i Conillas.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u61	Thank you. Minister, your 2013 pension reform condemns more than 9.5 million pensioners to poverty. The 0.25 % increase that you sold as a guarantee of the maintenance of purchasing power is no longer the case; in 2016 the pensioners had a loss of 1.35% and today, with the interim September CPI, of 1.55%. Minister, with an inflation of 1.7% constant in ten years, that loss will be around 15%, to which should be added the pharmaceutical co-op and the medicare, which have accounted for 5 billion euros less from pensioners to the public arks, without forgetting the sustainability factor, since in 2019 the replacement rate for new pensioners will be reduced by 30 points. And do you know who it's going to affect the most, Minister? I do not know whether you can sleep at night, but it will affect those who receive non-contributory pensions, those who receive minimum supplements or women, who already receive 40% less pensions than men; as always, the most vulnerable. And speaking of peace of mind, minister, yes, we must give much peace of mind to Catalonia and all of Spain. Do you know what the increase in pensions would mean by a constant 1.7%? So 1994 million euros. Do you know what we improperly pay in Social Security, as improper spending in 2016, for example in active policies of quota reductions and flat rates? So 2100 million euros. Minister, just with the Government returning to the consensus of the Toledo Pact of Truth, implementing the number one recommendation of the Toledo Pact, which today perfectly empowers you to regain the purchasing power of pensioners, in accordance with article 50 of the Constitution, that Constitution which you always put as a flag, we could regain the purchasing power of pensioners. By dignity and by right, minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u62	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, I say this to you with humility and, believe me, with serenity, the Socialist Party is not able to teach anyone how they managed pensions in Spain when they ruled, because today I could tell you that when we arrived at the government we found the pensions frozen for the first time in our history, I could tell you that we found the system in deficit for the second time and I could also tell you that we found a country on the verge of rescue, losing 1500 jobs every day, which are the final guarantee of our pension model. But today I want to talk about the future, Mrs. Perea. Firstly, it must be acknowledged that since the recovery no pensioner in Spain has lost purchasing power; moreover, today the pensioners have a 15% higher pension than in 2011. [[Rumors]] Secondly, today jobs are created at a rate of 500,000 jobs each year to consolidate our social protection model...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u64	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u65	... and, more importantly, social security revenue collection is going to break a historical record in 2017 because, for example, in August - and it will also be repeated in September - it will exceed more than €10 billion in revenue by one month. That is the reality, and from there I expect it where I always expect it, Mrs Perea, in the Toledo Pact. We deserve to give an answer to all the Spaniards, to guarantee them the pensions of today and tomorrow with that constructive dialogue and with that responsibility that I know will have all the groups, also the Socialist Party, in the Toledo Pact. That pact is the true guarantee of today's and tomorrow's pensions, and I appeal once again to your responsibility. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u66	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: IS THE SPANISH STATE READY TO ACCEPT A MEDIATION WITH CATALUNE? [[File number 180/000375]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u67	Question is now addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Méndez de Vigo, spokesman for the government, knows me badly because you are going to eat a brown that doesn't even touch you. We would have loved to have your vice president answer, but you're still afraid. The question is: do you believe that it is possible for the Government to accept any of the mediations offered in recent days, the Church, Desmond Tutu, Kofi Annan, etc.? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u69	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u70	Even Switzerland - I finish -, with which some of you, including your bench, would feel much more comfortable. Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u71	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I answer you with great pleasure, Mr Rufián, it is no brown; on the contrary, I am very happy to answer you. Look, forty years ago, three hundred and fifty people came through those two doors, willing to restore democracy in Spain, and they probably did so to take the opposite of a great poet who lived in Barcelona, who wrote in Spanish and who was called Jaime Gil de Biedma, who said that of all the stories of history the saddest is that of Spain, because it certainly ends badly. Those people decided that the history of Spain was going to end well and so, generously, they restored democracy in Spain and we were the admiration of many people all over the world: a country that came out of the dictatorship to enter democracy. And over these forty years we have solved our problems, Your Honor. We are at the head of Europe, at the head of prosperity and well-being. We're done with ETA terrorism. We have solved the last major financial crisis recently. Therefore, a country like this, a strong country, a powerful country, does not need mediators to solve its problems, Your Honor; we are able to resolve them with the dialogue between us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u73	Mr. Rufian, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u74	Thank you very much. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Mendez de Vigo? May you dialogue reduce it to rubber balls, sticks and, ultimately, to mistreat those who do not think like you. [[Rumors]] Do you believe - and it is a question that I extend to all your Government and to all your clack, to all your bench - that it is pleasant to reach out to those responsible for this? Do you honestly believe that? [[Sample of photographs]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u75	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u76	Do you think it's nice, that it's easy to reach out to those who sent savages to the streets of Catalonia to beat our people? [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u77	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u78	Do you honestly believe that? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u79	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u80	The answer is no. This is his work. Our work is what happened yesterday in the Parliament of Catalonia... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u81	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u82	... in an act of enormous generosity, of enormous courage and, ultimately, of politics, which is to reach out, even to those of batras. I ask you to be civilized and to be democrats for once in your life and to sit down at a negotiating table. I ask you to get your political police out of the streets of Catalonia, stop their machinery from mud, stop insulting us and stop being ridiculous. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u83	Quiet. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u84	Your Honor, with the same generosity that you appeal to, I ask you to be constructive, to say sensible things, to say positive things. In this House, every time you speak you are insulted, disqualified, and so we do not get anywhere. This Government has long maintained that one can speak, that there is dialogue without an expiration date but within the law, which is what everyone understands. All those mediators you have referred to earlier have said that you cannot dialogue outside the law; because it is normal. Do you believe that those people who entered here forty years ago, among whom there were many who had just fought against the dictatorship, were not generous and did not see that they had to be kept within the law so that there were rules of play for all? For that is what we ask you, that you remain within the law, that you return to the law. And within the law, Mr. Rufián, dialogue without expiration date. We have told them over and over again and we continue to tell them, and that is what everyone is telling them, that is what Europe is telling them. Don't fool people. Dialogue is only within the law. [[Applauds]] And within the law you will find us all. It's as simple as that. Surely, Mr Rufián, that is the logical, political and positive consequence that we can draw from this debate today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u85	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT RESPONSES THE GOVERNMENT TO THE POLITICAL CONFLICT IN CATALUNE? [[File number 180/00369]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u86	Questions to the Vice-President of the Government, Minister for the Presidency and Territorial Administrations. Question by Adriana Lastra Fernández, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, my group has decided, we have decided, that with this one intervention we are going to express the position of my group within the Government and also before all Members of this House. Everyone saw what happened yesterday in Barcelona in the Generalitat Parliament. In the midst of a scenario of flight from Catalonian companies, of institutional crisis and also of social fracture, whose maximum responsibility is Puigdemont, yesterday what we saw was a comedy; what we saw was, in short, an opera bufa, where no one knew what was being talked about, where one thing was said in Parliament and another was done outside Parliament. In other words, it seems that intergovernmentality has also arrived in Catalonia. No one has any doubts, and no one can have them, about the position of the Socialist Party in this situation: the defence of the rule of law and the constitutional order as guarantors of the social and territorial cohesion of our country. We also bet on dialogue, yes, but on real and sincere dialogue, on a dialogue that serves as a tool to reach agreements within the constitutional order, not as a strategy to break it unilaterally. This has always been our position and that is why our proposal - already approved - for a study committee in this House. I take this opportunity to thank all - forgive me, almost all - the political forces in this House who supported the establishment of this Study Commission, because it is true that forty years after our Constitution has been adopted, it is necessary to improve, reform, modernize and seek constitutional accommodation for the whole world. By the way, we do it here, in the seat of popular sovereignty, because dialogue has to take place in institutions, not in churches; in institutions. To this end, we were also chosen, because every dialogue must be carried out by the political forces, and always bearing in mind that any decision taken must have as a priority to maintain, preserve, preserve the coexistence of a plural and diverse people who do not deserve this suffering and this social fracture. We therefore reiterate our support for the Government of the nation, for the rule of law if all these requirements are met. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u88	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I believe that the defence of the democratic rule of law, of that democratic rule of law, for which so many Spaniards worked together, has come to us together. From this it goes, to defend democracy, to defend the constitutional order, in which any dialogue is possible and in which, if we all comply with the law, we are all able to understand each other. The Government of the Generalitat, for a long time, has established itself in disobedience to the law and democracy, and has also plunged the people of Catalonia as a whole into shambles and uncertainty. It is up to us to give certainty, security and stability, and I believe that we will do better if together we are able to take the necessary measures, giving priority to consensus, seeking effectiveness, social welfare and, above all, the peace of the citizens. I think it is up to us to put wisdom, serenity and sanity when some have lost it for a long time. I think it is up to us to put responsibility, moderation and prudence. I believe that it is up to us to offer the leaders and rulers of the Generalitat the return to the law, which is the place where dialogue is possible: in this House, in the constitutional framework, where everything can be discussed but as long as we all respect the rules of the game. There is no dialogue since the imposition and no dialogue since the change of the rules of play that he does not like. When you don't like laws in democracy, you try to change them into democracy. That is not what we saw yesterday, but what we have seen today in this House in the hands of your group, our group and some others is that Spain is a strong democracy. In Spain, dialogue is practiced, we do it every day in this House and it is others who have settled outside it. In his hand he is returning to this house, to this path, to the understanding of the Spaniards. If we did it in 1978, it makes no sense for some, unilaterally, to want to get out of it. In this house is where the dialogue is made and built every day and not from uncertainty, from illegality and from the breakdown of tranquillity and trust. They are generating much disquiet in Catalonia and the worst thing a ruler can do is generate uncertainty, instability and fear. I ask you to return to democracy, in your hand, and I thank you for your support not for the Government but for the democratic and rule of law state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMEN OF IRENE MARÍA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHY CAN THE GOVERNMENT SIT DOWN WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF GENERALITY TO PACT A MEDIA? [[File number 180/00363]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u90	She also asked the Vice-President of the Member of the Commission, Irene María Montero Gil, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u91	Thank you, President. Vice-President, I ask you why your Government rejects dialogue, why they refuse to sit at a table with the Government of the Generalitat and agree on the terms of mediation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u92	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u93	Mrs Montero, you have just heard from the Socialist Group and the Government, supported by the People's Parliamentary Group, what our framework for dialogue is. I would like to remind you of a few things: that the Government of the Generalitat has divided Catalan society, that the Government of the Generalitat has silenced the opposition parties - even its own until a few days ago - that it has generated economic cozobra and also ruptured social cohesion and that, having found in this house a framework for dialogue, it never came. I believe, Mrs Montero, that there can be no mediation between democracy and imposition, between law and disobedience, and it can be understood on equal terms in this house, where dialogue is practiced every day even if some do not know how to see it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u94	Mrs. Montero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u95	Thank you, President. I believe, Madam Vice-President, that it is incomprehensible for you to reject the dialogue, even when yesterday President Puigdemont did not declare independence, no one in Spain understands it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u96	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u97	And we run the risk - and today's stage is visible - of you scaling up the conflict, not providing solutions and continuing to get involved and taking out the flag of Spain because you claim to defend this country. But it's just that I've only seen you take the flag out of Spain when you were going against the rights of LGBTI people, to fight against abortion..., but I've never seen you take the flag out of Spain to defend the evicted people or to say no to cuts in health and education. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] It seems that you only use the flag of Spain to humiliate the one who thinks differently from you and to humiliate the one you have in front of you. I believe that the flag of Spain, ours, that of all Spaniards and Spaniards must be a symbol of fraternity between the peoples and citizens of this country and not a symbol of confrontation or to humiliate the one in front of it. That is why I ask you please and I repeat the proposal we are making to you, try with the only thing you haven't tried yet: dialogue, please. And don't talk to me about a legalistic argument, don't turn it into a matter within and outside the law, because when you, your government and your party, skip the law, steal from Spain and finance election campaigns with black money, you don't apply the same barrem, Madam Vice President, you don't apply that barrem. [[Applauds]] Please engage in dialogue and act as a government and not as a party, because there are millions of citizens in Spain and Catalonia who you too represent and we are calling for dialogue. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u98	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u99	And I'm gonna tell you something else. I am Spanish and I do not want Catalonia to leave Spain, Madam Vice-President, but I think you have to have the opportunity to decide it and to be sovereign in it. I want to send a message of calm and hope to thousands of citizens who are concerned at the moment: there is a solution and the solution is a referendum agreed and with guarantees, Madam Vice-President, you know that. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u100	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u101	I do not think, Madam Vice-President, of a more courageous, firmer and stronger proposal at this time of state crisis than listening and dialogue. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u102	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Montero, We may have lost our balance in this matter when you supported an illegal referendum without guarantees and Mr. Pablo Iglesias lent the voice to the independenceists. Mrs. Colau at the city hall yesterday was the first to applaud the uncertainty and gloomyness raised by Mr. Puigdemont. I would like you to be clear in this House and to say what you have agreed with Mr Puigdemont to become the defenders of the independenceists in that house and not to understand as a dialogue that we practice, by the way, the absolute majority of those here: the Socialist Party, Citizens and the People's Party. You are the alibi of the secessionists. [[A congressman. All right!-Applause.]] And why are they, Mrs. Montero? Because in their corrosive desire everything that is destabilizing the institutions is good for them, because they are always in the middle of all problems; if you have done today the retaliatory of all problems and have never provided solutions. They're in corrosion and never in construction. Mrs Montero, I will tell you very clearly, as long as there is a problem you are in the middle to shake it. Therefore, it is not appropriate for you to come here and ask for mediators, because this House does not need mediators. The mediators of that Spain that you say defend we are each and every one sitting in these seats and with these mediators it is with those who have to talk to anyone who wants to... [[Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you very much for your excellent report. Very well!-A honourable Member: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u104	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, to ensure real and effective equal pay for men and women and to develop the wage transparency commitment set out in the European Commission Recommendation of 7 March 2014. For your defence, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u105	Minister, I didn't intend to start like this, but I will. You have just replied to this House that the Toledo Pact seems to be the solution to all its problems. Well, I'm going to give you some data, Minister, to start with the issue of the pay gap. Do you know what the Toledo Pact is for you and the People's Party? To breach it. And I am going to tell you exactly two recommendations that you have consistently failed to comply with since you ruled, even though all the social actors are incriminating you and repeatedly asking you to do so day and day as well. I am speaking to you directly - as we are talking about the wage gap, Minister - of recommendations 5 and 17, which you should know perfectly well. For this, Minister, the People's Party is entitled to the Toledo Pact, in order to violate it every day and continue to violate women's labour rights in our country. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, I was certainly not going to start with the Toledo Pact but with the wage gap, so I'm going to explain the subject to you. Today we are talking about a problem perhaps of the most serious women have in our country. The wage gap reflects the total inequalities, the total discrimination in the world of work and in the economic world. Let's say that the pay gap is what allows women to receive different pay for jobs of equal value. [[The Lord]] Here is the key, Minister; the key is that our country, today, has not yet defined what the labour gap is, not even a legislative framework that supports women to point out those jobs of equal value, despite, Minister, that, as you know, Europe and various international bodies have been calling on our State to clearly define this concept. Madam Minister, you have recently assumed and said that the wage gap in Spain has been reduced by up to four points. I would like to begin by asking you, Mrs Báñez, to use this inquiry today to rectify this fact, because even the economic newspapers have told you that you were making statistical traps - I am not going to say that my country's Minister of Employment and Social Security is making statistical traps - and I ask you, Madam Minister, to use it to rectify that data, because you know very well that this data is false. I will give you some data to contextualize the problem we are talking about. I will start by quoting that salary structure survey which has been telling us that our country not only does not decrease in the wage gap but, unfortunately, since the so-called crisis in Spain the wage gap has increased; and it has increased so much, Minister, that it has reached, according to the various indicators, up to 24 % in some cases or, as the wage structure survey says - and it is not ours, it is yours - up to 23 %. This survey, Mrs Báñez, as you know, in all the sections, in your eighteen sections - to illustrate to your ladies and gentlemen, who surely know you very well - points out that the wage gap in our country is very deep, very deep. It is even very deep in those subjects, in those professions in which women are overrepresented. I'll give you an example. Of the eighteen professions we randomly take, for example, those that have to do with health care, with social services. In these areas, where we are women's legion, the wage gap, Mrs Báñez, is 34%. Look, if I tell you about something in which there is an absolute invisibility, of women who are scientists, who are technical, the wage gap, Minister, according to this survey is 30%. I will also talk to you, for example, about those great women who work every day in the administration whose wage gap, according to this survey, reaches up to 34%. Therefore, Minister, I ask you to correct this fact. Spain is going very badly and it is a terribly embarrassing fact that the wage gap, as an average, now reaches 23%, reaching levels of up to 34%. It might be that you told me in the reply that the salary structure survey is a survey and the data may not be reliable. I accept it because in the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea we are rigorous people, but I will give you the data of a record that handles very well Mr Montoro - absent - the record of the Tax Agency, which has also just explained to us what is the reality of Spain in relation to the wage gap of the employees. Minister, the Tax Agency tells us that the average wage of women - registration, I warn - is 16,134 euros gross per year and that of men is 20,779 euros per year. According to the Tax Agency, therefore, the wage gap in Spain is also 22%. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u106	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u107	Therefore, Mrs Báñez, the data you have handled is not true. Spain is going very badly and it is a shame that the wage gap in Spain continues to grow and, moreover, as the rapporteur has warned us in a report by the Committee on Equality in Europe, Mr Urtasun, continues to grow as a consequence and as a warning of the austerity policies that his department has implemented against the workers of our country. [[Applauds]] Yes, Mrs. Báñez. In the same report, approved by the European Commission, the rapporteur, Mr Urtasun, gives very relevant data. It tells us exactly that the wage gap costs Europeans and Europeans throughout the Union nothing more and nothing less than EUR 370 billion, exactly, Mrs Báñez, 2.8% of European GDP. In other words, not only are we faced with reasons of deep discrimination and inequality for women, but even this wage gap is very expensive for all Europeans and Europeans. I'll give you more data, Minister. Look, this same Tax Agency gives very succulent data of the 8 million employees we have in our country who indicate how women are directed to poverty as a result of their policies. The Tax Agency tells us in this data that of the 8 million, 4.2 million women received gross income - gross income - worth 812 euros per month. This in net is approximately 760 euros; that is, half of the female wage population dreams of being a milleurist. I do not know - I ask you again, I have asked you once - whether you could live, minister, with family burdens, paying a rent, paying a house, feeding, moving, with 764 euros per month. I ask you this question and, if you can, answer me, because it would be very relevant for those 4 million women who work in this country and who embody the consequences of their policies. More information, Minister: The Tax Agency says that 1.9 million women wage earners - almost 2 million, which is not small - receive half of the current minimum wage per month, 325 euros. If these working women are not poor, tell me what their names are. Of course, for us they are poor and, of course, their work model not only does not correct the wage gap but it widens it and makes us truly the 'nothings' of this country. [[Applauds]] Minister, there's one last thing left, so as not to bore you. The Tax Agency says that 1.2 million employees receive emoluments below the minimum wage, exactly EUR 648 per month. Very quickly, Minister. Their policies are very bad for women and we ask them to correct them; they are very bad. I have followed with great attention the electoral programme of the People's Party, I have reviewed it and it is true that the People's Party on its programme has committed itself to the Spanish workers precisely to eradicating the labour gap. I have followed and read very carefully Mr Rajoy's investiture debate in 2011 and, do you know what Mr Rajoy said in 2011? For it was going to undertake twelve legislative reforms, three of which, Madam Minister, had to do with subjects that were very sensitive to women. Mr Rajoy, almost six years ago, committed himself exactly to the women of this country to reform the subject of reconciling work and family life. We know that this is a central matter that has to do with the wage gap. Madam Minister, not only have you not kept your word of law in favour of women and, above all, demanding that men commit themselves to domestic co-responsibility, but what you have done with the 2012 reform has been that article 37 which today allows employers to do with us in matters of conciliation what they want; that is what you have done. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy has also committed himself to a central issue for us, which was reforming the Dependency Act, and I don't have to tell you that, do I? Nothing at all. Finally, Mr Rajoy committed himself to the wage gap. Indeed, they have done nothing at all, despite the fact that all of Europe, virtually all of the European countries in our environment, have already legislated on the wage gap. There is a 2014 European Union Recommendation that clearly calls for you to start legislation to preserve women. I finish this first intervention. Madam Minister, you are a very powerful woman in our country and I therefore respect you, it is nothing more and nothing less than the Minister of Employment and Social Security, and I have looked at all the subjects on your website, I have followed them carefully and the policies you practice as theoretically neutral do nothing but generate deep discrimination in active employment policies. I make a first request to you, Minister: do not be opaque to gender, be a Minister of Labour and Social Security who watches over the workers of this country. If you want you can do it, you have in your hand to change the lives of thousands of workers in our country, you tell your cabinet...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u108	Mrs. Díaz, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u109	... that it should change its policies and cease to be a deeply androcentric cabinet, with a masculine gaze and, therefore, with policies that only consolidate machismo and inequality in our country. Thank you very much and I hope you pick up this glove, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, equality between men and women is a matter for all of us, and we must therefore face it together, which we must do together and which we must do together in our area of responsibility because the challenge we are dealing with, which is equality of opportunity and of course equal pay, is not just a country challenge but, if you want, a universal challenge which has to do with justice and with equality and the consideration of the talent of our society, of men and also of women, regardless of gender or age. The wage gap undoubtedly represents a situation of sustained and unjustified disadvantage in the remuneration received by women against whom men are paid. If, as you also said, wages are the measure of the value of work, there is clearly a need for a firm commitment to ensure real and effective equal pay for work of equal value. But not only that, but also the continuity of such pay, which means the maintenance of women in the labour market without having to consider at some point in their lives the temporary abandonment of the latter to devote themselves to family responsibilities as historically and culturally, has been done not only in our country but in the countries of our environment. We therefore agree that there is this reality, that there is not one, but more of a gender gap in Spain, and that we must tackle it together. There is the wage gap but also the activity gap and, of course and as a result of the previous ones, the pension gap. What about the activity gap? For both in access to the labour market and in the relationship of greater partiality historically between women, there is an unequal distribution - as we all know well - of the tasks in care within the family, and this has been a reality for a long time in our country and in the countries of our environment. What about the pension gap? It is very related to the above, because historically women have had shorter contributory careers and therefore lower pensions that have reached up to 30%. We have already started to provide a solution since we adopted by a majority of this House a maternity supplement which, since its entry into force, has made it possible for 280,000 working women in Spain to retire with a pension of up to 15% more to combat this pension gap that we have historically experienced in Spain. Our country was at the forefront with France of policies to promote equality between men and women throughout Europe. And that's yielding results, Your Honor? Indeed, because it has managed to reduce the pension gap in Spain by no less than 11% in two short years. I told him that we also recognize, of course, the wage gap. It is a reality, it is an unfair reality and exists both in our country and in countries that consider themselves model in social policies, such as Denmark or Sweden. And it's not a subject now, unfortunately it's a subject that comes from afar and that, as I said before, is based on the gender roles that has been in place for many decades. Therefore, the important thing is to start by recognizing the situation and the problem that we have in all countries, especially European countries. You tell me about Europe, about what the European institutions tell us, and you tell us something that is true and that we share, that we have a long way to go, and that is true. But, Your Honor, I do not accept what you have also said, that the European institutions tell us that the situation has worsened in recent years, because it is simply not true. As for the text of the inquiry in which you make a partial view of reality, I have to tell you that you do not give data. Why don't you give them, Your Honor? As much they allude to a study that has made a majority trade union organization in Spain, but concrete statistical data do not give. And why? Because if you go to the index, to the European Commission's 2017 report on page 56 or see Eurostat data, you will notice that the wage gap has not increased in Spain in recent years, but, as we have already said in this House on other occasions, that it has been reduced by four points since 2012, and here are the data. So, we're not worse. That doesn't mean we're fine and we're as good as we are, but we're not worse since at least the People's Party in Spain rules. So, Your Honor, I'm asking for a little rigor there too. I would also like to say that in recent years there has been positive news of equal opportunities in Spain. Because, Your Honor, equality between men and women in the area of pay begins with a job and the good news is that, according to September's membership data, 2500 jobs between women were created every day last month. According to Eurostat - with data from the second quarter of 2017 - Spain leads the creation of women's jobs throughout the Euro zone, 45% more jobs than Germany, which is the second most created, or 60% more than France. The third positive fact is that the labour price index published by the INE tells us something as important as that since the recovery the wage increase of women has been higher than that of men. In 2015 it has doubled to that of men and in 2014 it was five times higher the wage increase of women compared to men. Does that mean we're done with the task? No way. We have not finished the task at all. We are deeply unconformist and must continue to fight for any reason of inequality between men and women. The road will not be fast or easy, but, I insist, we will have to fight that battle together. However, the great challenges as a society must be shared. I would also like to say that the first way to begin to fight effectively and effectively against this situation of injustice towards women is to have visibility, i.e. to make visible the disadvantage situations that allow workers and companies to start from a concrete diagnosis and the negotiators of collective bargaining help us in the commitment and responsibility to improve this situation of discrimination. This undoubtedly starts with greater transparency to recognize the existence of this bias and to put us to work more intensively and to implement the European Commission's recommendation of 7 March 2014 on the effort of the principle of equal pay for women and men through transparency, which proposes the following measures that the Government has taken and wants to negotiate in the social dialogue, and is to legally establish that right of information for workers. Workers shall be entitled to be informed of the levels of remuneration, in particular of variable or complementary components, such as payments in kind or premiums from other categories of workers performing the same work or work of equal value, broken down, of course, by gender. Companies will have an obligation to communicate regularly to workers' representatives the wages by category of workers or posts broken down by gender, as well as the possibility of carrying out wage audits with external companies in order to have this gender equality badge as set out in Royal Decree 1615/2009 of 29 October, and in turn to register and deposit equality plans, as set out in Royal Decree 713/2010 of 28 May, to include equality plans that are not currently registered in the register or in the deposit. In other words, the situations that companies experience in terms of remuneration are not only known to workers and their representatives in each workplace, but also to public authorities and social organizations in general to ensure effective compliance and legal effectiveness. In parallel with the above, the Ministry of Employment and Social Security monitors the legality of the agreements through the labour authority to ensure that there are no situations of discrimination in respect of wages between men and women in our country. We are working on this with the social partners and I encourage them to make the appropriate contributions on this issue, which is country, society and social justice, in which we all want to continue to work to improve the situation in Spain today, which, far from being as negative as you see it, is improving in recent years, although I recognise that this injustice still exists in our country and we must continue to face it together, which is the way in which we will find more efficiency and effectiveness in defending equal opportunities for men and women in Spain. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u113	Minister, you're becoming too predictable. I knew that today, unfortunately, you were going to tell the workers of our country again that equality begins with a job. I beg you, Minister. Do not disqualify yourself, do not ever again affirm this fact, because every time you say that equality begins with a job it only delegitimizes the workers of our peoples and consolidates the labour and wage discrimination as well as the slavery that many workers throughout Spain live. Minister, do you tell the Inditex workers, who work almost as slaves, that equality begins with a job? Please, Minister, do not disrespect yourself; fight to eradicate inequality in women's wages. Minister, I was telling you... [[Mrs Villalobos Talero utters words that are not perceived]] Don't worry, Mrs. Vilallobos, don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u114	Please, I beg your silence. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u115	I was telling you, Minister, that you have become very predictable. Article 60, the well-called maternity supplement - 280,000 female workers -, Minister, the maternity supplement you have legislated is a Christmas measure. This is what all women and class unions in this country say. Not only do we say this, but Europe also states in its reports that compensatory measures, such as maternity supplement, are not effective in eradicating labour discrimination, Minister. [[Applauds]] They mean having children in a country where women cannot have children, but they do not mean having equal wages with men. Minister, please read the reports of the European Union. You have said here that the European reports do not press our country. I don't lie. You have it here in this report. [[Show a document]] I will read you what this report literally says so that you can see that we are not missing the truth. This report, in recital 24, urges Malta, Spain, Belgium, Ireland, Greece, Italy and Austria to bridge the gender gap, and says so, Minister, following increases in the wage gap in these countries. Madam Minister, we are not lacking in the truth. They are reports from the European Union and they press these countries. It is also true that this report highlights countries that are doing well; I will not read them because you know perfectly well what we are talking about. Madam Minister, I will give you some other considerations, because you did not want to talk or spoke only side by side about pensions; a gap that says all the reports that is not of 30, but of 40%. They are pensions that make the women of our country truly poor. To conclude, Minister, I will tell you that you did not mention some things that are very relevant to us either. Its policies, which have indeed been legislated, affect precisely the wage gap and the social protection that we have. I am going to talk to you once again about the counter-reform they have carried on in unemployment. Do you know how this benefit gap is quantified in the case of women's access to unemployment? In which we have benefits with a difference of 19%. Do you know what these measures cover, Minister? For example, women in our country are the queens of non-contributory pensions. Non-contributory pensions, 80%, have a woman's face. Do you know what your policies are quantified in, Minister? In that, with its latest reform, article 12 of the Workers' Statute allows us to have more than two million part-time contracts that have a woman's face. Do you know what you're quantifying, Minister? In that all your policies go against us and you allow things to remain the same. I'll finish it, Minister. Do you know what you have to do? We are going to tell you, Minister, because after listening to Mrs Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría, it seems that you have become the architects and those who have defended the Spanish Constitution, although I believe that it was our parents and the parents of many people who fought in this country to have that constitutional text that you voted against. [[Applauds]] What you have to do for our workers and to eliminate the gender gap is to fulfil the mandate of Article 9.2 of the Spanish Constitution. You remove the obstacles that today make it impossible for all of us to equal pay; that is, you remove the obstacles that consolidate discrimination. I repeat what I said when I started. Please, out of respect for yourself, do not say again that equality begins with a job. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u116	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[Mrs. Villalobos Talero: It seems a lie that you say that.-Several honourable Members speak words that are not perceived.- Rumors]] I beg you, please, do not interpellate between yourselves. Mrs. Villalobos, you know that's your obligation. Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the data they are not interested in deny them, but no one can deny today that in Spain all the female employment destroyed by the crisis has been recovered and there are more women than ever working - more than 8.5 million - which is good news for all. I also say that we continue to work every day to ensure that the employment of men and women in Spain is of higher quality. That is why we are working on social dialogue and responsibly with the autonomous communities. So, yes, Your Honor, equal opportunities in Spain - I say it louder - starts with a job. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you can see Eurostat data. Here is the Commission's report, which, on page 56, acknowledges that in Spain things are going to get better. I am grateful that you have asked me today because, what a coincidence, at nine o'clock in the morning the 2017 Gender Equality Index has been made public, which serves to assess the situation and monitor progress in gender equality in the EU Member States at twenty-eight over time. This index consists of six main domains, namely work, money, knowledge, time, power and health, and two so-called satellite domains, which are violence and cross inequalities. The results of this index in 2017 show that the evolution of gender equality in the last decade has been positive and gradual. In terms of the European average, the index has increased from 2005 to 2015 from 62 to 66.2. It should be noted that the largest increase occurred in the period 2010-2015, with an increase of 2.4 points, since in the previous five-year period it was only increased by 1.8 points. As for the results by country, Your Honor - I know you are particularly interested in Spain - thanks to the commitment of our country's entire society, our country is one of the four that has managed to improve its results in the six main domains, and the value of the index has increased from 62.2 to 68.3, which means an increase of 6.1 points, placing 2.1 points above the EU average. This is very important, ladies and gentlemen, especially because it is clear that countries as important as Germany or Finland, for example, have seen these indices reduced in two of the six main domains. Spain is one of the three countries that has improved most in terms of inequality in the time spent in domestic work and in dependent family care. This point is remarkable, believe me, since it is noted that countries such as Belgium, France, Finland and Germany, among others, have worsened in this more social indicator. Therefore, Your Honor, whether you like it or not, whether you want to see it or not, I invite you to read the statistics that came out today, where the image of Spain that emerges from the gender equality index 2017 is very positive. We must continue to work together in an important way so that there is greater equality of opportunity between men and women in Spain every day. That is where I encourage you to make contributions from a constructive dialogue. Don't put everything black, because Spain has, thank God, lots of colors. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER FOR EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT, ON IDEOLOGIC ADOCTRINATION IN EDUCATION CENTRES IN SPAIN. [[File number 172/000069]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u119	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport, on ideological indoctrination in educational institutions in Spain. For his defence, Mr. García del Moral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, once upon a time there was a school built, by the way, in barracks and adorned with stellates. Do you think it's normal? Once upon a time there was a school in which the crafts of the children consisted of those same children marking the crown of our king. Do you think it's normal? Once upon a time, there was a monitor who spoke sweetly to the children of the terrifying history of a king and some cops who were very bad, who locked people in jail and then killed them. Do you think it's normal, Minister? Do you like that children who did not support last week's secessionist strike were punished with more duties? Have you seen the video of those children who were literally told that the Spanish enemy must be destroyed? Does it seem normal for the textbooks to mention Jaume I as an independentist hero, which characterizes the Spaniards as animals and the Catalan peasants as poor victims pushed to violence? Do you like to be talked about in the textbooks and always come out on the TV3 time map a secessionist invention that is called Catalan countries, that want to impose on us all the citizens of the Valencian Community, of the Balearic Islands, and also to Catalans who do not commune with that fiction? Do you know that an institute in Baleares called Pau Casesnoves forced its students to support the secessionist referendum in school hours? Does it seem normal for a textbook to say that the Romans invaded Catalonia in the year 218 before Christ, that letters be sent from the direction of the school to the parents to authorize their children's attendance at secessionist demonstrations by skipping classes and that, therefore, a record be kept of who is in agreement with secessionism and who is not? Do you know that the Association of Textbook Editors and its president, José Moyano, denounced political pressure from all kinds of autonomous authorities? Did you listen to the great historian John H. Elliott telling a stupefaction, after talking to a young Catalan, that he was absolutely convinced that the Spanish Civil War was a war between Catalonia and the rest of Spain? [[Applauds]] John Elliott had realized that an entire generation - he said textually - has learned a deformed story. Does it seem normal for the textbooks to say that the only official language is Catalan, that the Constitution is never mentioned, that the law of the highest rank there is the statute and that you, Minister, the People's Party Government, have given as the only solution to those who want to study in Spanish a little payy so that they can do so in a private school? Is that all right with you, Minister? This is not exclusive to Catalonia. What I am talking about today is something that is beginning to happen and also happening in the Valencian Community and in the Balearic Islands. Does the minister want to find himself within very little of the same scenario that we are living these days in Catalonia? [[Applauds]] As little as they're doing, it looks like they are. A few days ago, I read a quote from Eric Hobsbawm that I thought was very good. It says: History is the raw material of which nationalist, ethnic and fundamentalist ideologies are nourished, just as opium poppy is the element that serves as the basis for heroin addiction. The past is an essential factor, perhaps the one that most of these ideologies, and when there is no suitable past it is always possible to invent it. When there is no suitable past, it is always possible to invent it. That is what is happening in Catalonia right now with the nationalists, Minister. That is what is beginning to happen in the Valencian Community and in the Balearic Islands, and what is worse, that is what has been happening for decades without you, gentlemen of the People's Party, nor you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, doing anything. Minister, you have tools, you have an inspection job to make sure that there is a basic curriculum that is completed throughout Spain; you have at your disposal tools to achieve it. But what have they done so far, what have they done after all I have enumerated to you? Because the results cannot be more dramatic, Minister, we are seeing it during these days: social division; fracture; confrontation; tremendous deception; harmful economic consequences, which will of course pay the usual ones, because they will not be paid by the Members up there or by the Members of Parliament. By the way, I welcome the few secessionists who are here today. It turns out our notice to take their pay off if they didn't come to work has worked. [[The Lords Olòriz Serra and Salvador and Duch, stood up, utter words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u122	Let me talk, please. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u123	Mr. Singing, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u124	This is not the Catalan Parliament, where they have silenced the entire opposition; here let others talk. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u125	Mr. Singing, get to the point we're dealing with. And please don't interrupt the speaker. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u126	Do you think, minister, that it is normal for a teacher at school to tell a child the son of a civil guard: You will find it beautiful what your father has done!Is that what you're talking about? Doesn't it embarrass you to see that the only ones who protested against that act were a few students and not a single teacher? The world upside down, Minister, students giving lessons to teachers. By the way, Catalan children continue to study in barracks, this seems important to me; Catalonia is the autonomous community where there are more barracks. It can be seen that children only seem to be interested in secessionists as long as they can be handled. [[Applauds]] The removal of the barracks will leave it for another day, as well as for another day that you enjoy free textbooks, as we proposed in Catalonia and which you and Convergence have fallen. Minister, what I am saying today not only happens in schools, it also happens in universities. There are certain parties that we can no longer appear in universities without being "scraped" or escorted by the police, promoted by professors as democratic as Mr. Pablo Iglesias. At the Autonomous University of Barcelona they harass the non-independenceists with shouts from Nazis and foreign fairies, and the rectory does not condemn it. The governing council of Pompeu Fabra agreed to adhere to the national referendum pact. At these universities they have been given free days and instructions to go out or tell them how to vote. At those same universities, Minister, while we are not allowed to go, we are welcomed to ages as heroes. I know I'm asking you as Minister of Education, but to talk about this, I also need to talk about TV3 and how you're watering it with public money to the media. I must remember that on TV3 recently, in an entertainment program, Mr Otegui was received as if he were a hero and laughed at a grace that he was doing about the disappearance of Albert Rivera, about the disappearance of the president of the main opposition party. [[Applauds]] The presenter and the public, who, like all of us who are dedicated to this, know that they are paid for that same television, laughed at the grace of a disappearance to a terrorist convicted of belonging to an armed gang and to a kidnapper; they laughed at that grace to such a character. To those up there, did they tell the kids that too from TV3? Did they tell the children: look children, today we have invited on our television a terrorist who put a very fat bomb in Hipercor that killed twenty-one Catalans, including four children? Did you also tell them about that tone, secessionists? Why do you allow this to be said in the Catalan media of the Police and the Civil Guard? [[Applauds]] Because there's results there, it's not a casual thing. Right now in Catalonia, the State Security Forces and Corps are being threatened and intimidated. On TV3 we have heard Tertullians despise the rest of Spain with a supremacist, racist tone, minister. They have mocked Andalusians or extremists; they have treated some Valencians as corrupt subordinates, when the Catalonia of those lords is the most corrupt autonomous community in all of Spain. On TV3 we have seen a children's program in which secessionists were treated as heroes who kept the ballot boxes as a valuable treasure that was taken in secret so that people could vote like in a movie and people were crying out of emotion. That's what they were told. What have you done in the meantime, minister? Why didn't the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party do anything? They have only fed the monster; they have only arranged with Pujol I the corrupt, with a Catalan government that governs for the García, Martínez, López, Sánchez, Rodríguez, Fernández, and so on until the thirty-three most common surnames in Catalonia which, however, are governed by a government that is formed by the Mas, Romeva, Turull, Puigdemont, Junqueras, Forcadell and the mother who gave birth to them, minister; by the superior mother, the woman of Pujol, the mother of all chorizos; the lady who dared to say on TV3 that she would not accept and that she would not like anything from an Andalusian president who has the Spanish name; the supremacist mother. Do you know where many of these people take their children to Catalonia? They do not take them to those schools that are forcing all other citizens to take their children, no; they take them to private schools because they have money to allow them to do so. Speaking of surnames, gentlemen of Podemos, Mr. Iglesias - it's a shame you're not here - you said the Catalan problem would be solved by seeing eight Catalan surnames. It didn't work, Mr. Churches. His proposal to mediate a bishop did not work either. This is a moment of courage, not opportunists, which is what you are doing continuously. As for everything I've told you, I know you're going to say it's wrong, but have you done anything to really stop it, Minister? Because that's not normal, that they haven't done anything and that they've been allowed to get here. You, members of the People's Party, as well as the members of the Socialist Party, have been negotiating for years how to build Spain with those who were just trying to take it down, and in that you also have a very special resemblance to Podemos. They should work to ensure that secessionists do not adopt our children. That's what they should start doing once and for all so that the education they impose is not what it is now, a factory to create robots that only think what they want them to think. We must create free and autonomous beings who have the right to decide, which is what we think is most important, the right to decide for themselves what they want to be, what they want to think and what they want to believe in tomorrow. As Mr Escohotado says, Minister, a country is not rich because it has diamonds or oil, a country is rich because it has good education; knowledge is the wealth of a country and above all knowledge - I said - that allows it unlimited respect for others. Have you seen that unlimited respect for others these past few days in Catalonia, minister? No, right? This means that Spain is becoming poorer while you do nothing. Do your job, minister, our future depends on it. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Singing. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have made an extravagant speech because you have asked me with what in grammar classes they called rhetorical questioning. You asked me a question that implied the answer, and besides, in case I hadn't heard, you said to me: I'm sure you agree with me. Well, yes, I agree with you. But it has given me the feeling - perhaps I am wrong - that I was not the recipient of your inquiry, it has given me the feeling that rather there were some gentlemen who are up there and some absent, with which, as I believe they are not going to ask for the word for allusions, I will answer you and I will tell you that you are right in one thing, in which to me everything you have said seems wrong; in addition I condemn you with firmness and conviction because I believe that, if education cannot be exercised in tolerance and freedom, there is a basic purpose of the educational system, which is to do it in democracy and coexistence. That is why I express the Government's strongest condemnation of what has happened recently in several educational institutions in Catalonia, where children, young people and families have been pointed out by their parents' profession, their parents' convictions or by what they were demonstrating. That sounds bad to me, and I'm sure it feels bad to the whole House, because the school is not to indoctrinate. Of course, teachers have their convictions and their ideology, but they have to leave it out and above all they can't implant their ideas into the little heads of children, and less so when these ideas attack coexistence and tolerance. And less so - as we have seen - when the children of those who have had to defend legality, because it was their obligation, are attacked by it. That all seems embarrassing to me. You ask me. And what have you done? For we have done what we could do because in Spain we have an autonomous system where the autonomous communities, all except the two autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla, which are the territory of the ministry, have transferred competences in education. That's the reality of things. Then we'll see what we can do, but that's the reality of things today. When in a control session I am questioned or asked and I say that we have to defend legality is because I believe in it. The actions of the Minister of Education - whoever is speaking to them today or anyone in the future - must be in accordance with the law. That's the reality of things, Your Honor. And what is the legality at this point? The legality at this point is that the powers attributed to the ministry are limited, that is the reality, it has a high-inspection assigned task. That is, above and beyond the educational inspection in an autonomous community, which depends on the autonomous community, there is the high inspection. Those who believe that their rights have been undermined can be directed to that high inspection, and in the cases you mentioned there have been people who have been directed to the high inspection. The high inspection has fulfilled its role and opened a file to determine whether the conduct could constitute a crime or violate the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That has been done by the high inspection and is within the powers of the high State inspection. And from there what can the ministry do once it studies and processes all that information? Look, you can do what the law allows you and what the law allows you to do is to establish a relationship with the respective education council. This collaboration has different phases. The first is called 'collaborative charters', which is to communicate to the respective council: 'Hey!, we have news that such events have taken place and we believe that they are against the Constitution, against the legislation, against an international convention. Madam or Mr Counsellor - letter of cooperation - tell me how you are going to proceed in this case.' In the event that the letter of cooperation does not have effect, i.e. the Ministry's high inspection is not satisfied with the reply, it may proceed to the second stage and make a formal request under article 44 of the Law Regulating the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction. He can do so and if that adviser does not agree we can take him to the courts, also by article 44 of the Law Regulating the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction or by articles 31 to 34 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. That's what we can do and, Your Honor, that's what we've done. Look, on 27 September, we sent a letter of cooperation, here it is, to complaints from individuals. [[Show a document]] I'm sure many of the ones you mentioned today in your inquiry are here. I am not going to say which institutes it is because they are mentioned with names and surnames, I am not going to do it out of respect, for data protection, but here they are in the complaint addressed to the adviser of the Department of Education of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. This first letter is dated 27 September. Second request, 6 October - Your Honor today we are on 11 - with specific cases where it is felt that there have been signs of crime, where there has been a violation of the law. These are specific cases, Your Honor. And if the ministry does not receive an adequate answer it will go to the courts, but that is the system we have, Mr. Interpellant. I can't make up another system. I must also say one thing: this is the general system that has worked well in Spain when there is a collaborative will on the part of the autonomous administration. [[Señor Cantó García del Moral: Of course!]] Yes, of course, Your Honor, but look here many times we talk about constitutional reform, it's a subject that's in the air. At some point in my life I have devoted myself to constitutionalism and have always maintained that the first constitutional reform that our 1978 text requires is the introduction of a principle of constitutional loyalty or federal loyalty. That is very important because in federal and decentralized countries there is not a single federated state that is expected to fail to comply with the basic rules. It doesn't exist. I remember my good friend - former President of the European Parliament - Martin Shulz, whom as soon as I came to this ministry I told him my difficulties with some autonomous communities. Do you know why? Because in education - and it has nothing to do with political colors - education councils apply what I call the Frank Sinatra doctrine, that is: they apply the law in their own way. Of course, this often puts the Minister of Education in trouble because he understands that they do not exactly comply with what the law says. Any minister of education depends on the will of the counselors to comply with the law and do it properly, that is the reality of things. And the Minister of Education exercises his powers but also has limits and that is what we have - you and I and the rest of this House - the obligation to move people. We don't have to transfer to people that fiction that the Minister of Education can do anything, because it's not true; it acts, but it has a limit. You will therefore tell me: well, the situation is not satisfactory. I think it is not satisfactory, it is not a situation yesterday or before yesterday but a long time ago; it is not satisfactory. What do we do? If we all agree that it is not satisfactory... You and I can agree that it is not satisfactory but it gives me the feeling that other groups in the House - and I look at no one - will not agree. Here you have to play majorities and minorities and seek consensus and, if we agree that it is not satisfactory, we will change it. And we have an opportunity now to do so. Why? Because this Parliament is studying, analysing, calibrating the social and political state pact for education. I recently asked you a question, also from your parliamentary group, about textbooks.I told you what I am answering you: Hey!, I do what the laws allow me to do. You may accuse me of not being diligent enough in one case or another. Well, maybe it's true, but I can't do more than the laws tell me, than the laws allow me to do at every moment. Now, if we consider that the law must be changed, it must be modified, we have this covenant that is being studied here to do so. Let us see if we find a majority, let us see if we put common sense into the system; I am willing to do so and I believe that if we act with open eyes, with generosity and seeking the general interest we will achieve it. Let me finish by saying one thing. The cases that you have said, the ones that I have, it is true, are regrettable cases, they are cases that must be denounced, that must be brought before the law. But not all teachers are like that, not all principals of centers are like that, there are many, the vast majority who do not think so. Therefore, I would ask you, as Minister of Education, not to throw a stain of oil at everyone. That is very Spanish, the Spanish arbitrariness that consists of seeing a behavior and extending it to all others. It is not true, what we have to do is denounce those who do, explain to people why we do not like and why we do not agree, but continue to say that teachers in Spain are fundamental to the educational system and that they do a job that is marked by vocation and not by ideological vocation, Your Honor, but by the vocation to make citizens free, equal in rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u129	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mr Cantó García del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u130	Minister, I did mean you. It is obvious that I had to talk to other groups that are, or should be, in the House but I did mean you because you have the power, in theory, to get... [[The Minister of Education, Culture and Sport, Mendez de Vigo y Montojo: Well...!]] Yes, it does, it has a tool that is not being used properly, that of the high inspection. I will now explain to you how you have been working on the Marzà decree and I am sure that we agree that you have not been all diligent and quick as you could have been. In other things, minister, I think you - I know you well and I know that is not the case - naive, because talking to me about loyalty of the gentlemen who are up there after what they have done all these years and, especially in the last few weeks, or talking to me about loyalty of those who are there is absolutely amazing naivety. I hope that something will soon come into play that has to do with what we believe is the only solution to this issue that is to apply Article 155 once and for all so that there are genuine ballot boxes in Catalonia and, therefore, there is a leader there, who is called Inés Arrimadas, who does behave as a leader should behave, in a loyal way with the rest of the citizens and with the Spanish Government. [[Applauds]] I pick up the glove, you're right, this has not been a problem of the People's Party, not even of the Socialist Party, but of both, and of course of the nationalists, but above all of those who have been letting them do that sort of thing. That is why from the beginning our greatest concern - and I remember again Escohotado saying that the real wealth of a country is his knowledge, his education - our first parliamentary impulse here was for the state pact for a new education that is not what we have been seeing all these years, an educational law that the Socialist Party was putting on, that was putting on the People's Party and that was not going to be essential, to really enrich and open the head, the mind of our children, which is what we really think is important. Of course not all teachers are like that but, while you do nothing, those who win in these kinds of situations are the fundamentalists. It is the same thing that has happened in the streets of Barcelona until this Sunday: those who take over the street, those who take over the centers in these cases are the fundamentalists and that is what you have to avoid too. Of course all the teachers and all the centers are not so, but I assure you that there is not a single public university in Catalonia to which we citizens can go without getting a chicken - and I'm sorry for the expression, Minister - and they are not doing anything to solve that either. I would also like to recall something else, because I think it is important to strengthen it for the gentlemen who are up there - there are few, but there are some; with our threat of taking away their salaries it seems that some have come -, what are they really doing with education, because we are not only talking about barracks, we are talking about one of the highest drop-out rates in Spain, a ratio of pupils per classroom higher than the national average, of the largest cuts in social spending, greater than in any other autonomous community - of course, spending on secessionisms and corruption, three percent, etc., is what you have, you have one less money left for other things - or the fact, as I said before, that there is no other autonomous community where there are more barracks, not even in Valencia, gentlemen of Compromís, that you are also experts in promising gold and the Moor, as we say there, and then do absolutely nothing. I know that this is also the responsibility of the People's Party, and I do not want to hide its responsibility, because there are also lack of dining grants that have to be taken over by other social entities, etc. But now I go to the minister, to his argumentary and his inaction. They have done nothing about the problem of manipulated textbooks until there was a question from our deputy Marta Martín and an intervention from the deputy Girauta who put them in a brete, minister. The Royal Decree establishes the Constitution as a fundamental content in the curriculum and for years that content has been omitted from the books and you have done nothing. He tells me that it is not within his competence, but, look, the government has the mechanisms to request and collect information from the autonomous communities and even to initiate - in that we agree, right? - high educational inspection procedures. They had to look between sword and wall to do something, as in the case of Mr Marzà's decree of multilingualism in the Valencian Community. The decree is published in January, minister, and you do nothing until February; after the report of the high inspection, you request only one request from the Government; three private entities begin in the meantime a judicial process and, once the Supreme Court of Justice of Valencia cautiously suspends that decree, the Government, of course, does not paralyze the process and begins to enroll students in that suspended decree model, and you do nothing; it establishes a nullity of the decree after a final ruling, the Government decides to publish its decree-law adopting urgent measures for the implementation of its model, jumping to the torera the separation of powers and the jurisdictional line that the Constitutional has always followed against the use of the decree-law in such situations, and they do nothing. Indeed, Minister, if we have come this far you must assume the responsibility - I finish, President - that you have not been diligent enough or have done what we really believe must be done to put an end to this problem. You tell me that you can change and we pick up the glove, that is why this inquiry and that is why the next motion; let's do something, Minister. The education pact seems to us to be an excellent framework and we will continue to fight in the meantime for that 155 to be applied and for real ballot boxes to be put in. I would like to end by reminding Escohotado: A country is not rich because it has diamonds or oil, it is because it has a good education. Wealth is knowledge, minister, and above all knowledge that allows unlimited respect for others. We pick up the glove and we wait for you in that national pact for education. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u131	To conclude the debate, the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Questioner, you have already achieved the summum, which is to advertise your candidate in Catalonia, which is fine, I like Mrs Arrimadas, I think she had a good speech yesterday, although I remind her that you are asking me but she talks about everyone and in addition to all the things in the world. Look, when I ask for the constitutional text to be introduced, the principle of constitutional loyalty or federal loyalty is because I miss it - it is because I miss it, of course I do! - and not just from one autonomous community or another, but from quite a few. That's the reality of things. I've explained this to you before with complete clarity. I believe that given the system of educational transfers, the capacity of the Ministry of Education is limited to basic legislation. I will give you an example that you will understand very well and those who listen to us. In the 2017 State General Budgets, spending on education - which is investment for me - amounts to more than 47 billion euros, 47 billion euros. Do you know how many of those 47 000 are in the ministry? Do you know how much? 5.16 %. And 67% of 5.16 % goes to scholarships. This is the Ministry of Education in Spain, a ministry where education is transferred to the autonomous communities, which exercise the competences, as do the universities to which you have also referred. Therefore, that implies a limitation. Do we want to change it? Well, I'm willing to discuss it. I do, it seems to me, after the experience I have had, that there are things that could be improved. But we have to find a consensus to change it, there we are. Therefore, it is not that I believe in constitutional loyalty or not, I believe in it but I think that it should be articulated in the constitutional text in order for it to be activated in a better way. You mentioned, taking advantage of the fact that the Carrión passes through Palencia, the decree of Mr Marzà's multilingualism and said: The government has done nothing. And then I heard him say that the decree of the Councillor of Education of the Valencian Community was of January and that in February the ministry had already requested it. Man, it's not bad! I want to tell you that I can run more, but if it's published in January and February, after having studied things seriously, it's required, it means we've moved. We asked him at his time, if I remember correctly, in six points, then there was a judicial complaint and he was suspended; he was suspended, ladies and gentlemen. But I think the important thing is to say today that the decree that is suspended remains suspended and the decree law that they have recently approved restores the situation - Article 2 - to the decree of the year 2012. That is the message that must be given, that it works, that the courts work, that the requirements work, and that the ministry follows and speaks to them and asks them to submit to the law and to do things according to the law. Because the work of the Ministry of Education is collaborative with the autonomous communities, that no one pretends that the ministry is confronted with them, and the collaboration I want to tell you that it works admirably well. In most cases, disputes are resolved, and when they are not resolved, they go to the courts and see who is right in the courts. It is also important to say here that when things work and when courts establish that a particular law is not in conformity with the law, it is suspended. Right now, Your Honor, in the case of the decree-law of the Valencia Education Council, what have we said? We agree that the situation should be brought back to the 2012 decree, but we have some doubts about the substance and form you have used. So we're going to open a joint Generality commission from Valencia-Ministry to study this issue. This is what is done in all countries, it is normal and that also means that the system works. I mean, you don't have to move or explain that the system doesn't work, no. The system works reasonably well in many respects and there is goodwill - I have been able to appreciate it - on the part of the autonomous communities. What we have to see is whether the scheme supports improvements and there we have that possibility. I insist, it is not always possible, but I believe that there is a will in Spain right now, there is a desire to reach a consensus in education. That is why what you have said by quoting Escohotado, because we believe that education is important because we had to take it out of the framework of the political struggle, because we also think that people want it, because the technological revolution imposes it, we are studying it here. I will come to the Education Commission in the Congress of Deputies in two weeks' time and tell you how I see things. You see? I too take advantage of your interpellation to send a message. I think it would be a good political message for Spanish society right now that this House could agree, together with the autonomous communities, on a great social and political pact for education. Therefore, that is where we need to see what is not working and what is what we need to improve, but always taking into account that the Spanish education system is a good system that prepares people well, that is improving and that is solving some of the underlying problems, such as school drop-outs. So don't make a clean slate and improve what we have. I'm sure there, you, that today has been more Achilles than Ulpiano - I've probably been more Ulpiano than Achilles -, and I will surely meet. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. The meeting was suspended until 16 hours. It was one and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 4 p.m. COMPARISON OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL OF THE CAMARA, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 203 OF THE REGULATION. - URGENT COMPARISON OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL OF THE CAMARA, REQUESTED BY THE LORD MONTERO GIL AND 70 OTHER DEPUTATES, TO EXPLAIN HOW TO RESOLVE THE CRISIS OF INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS BETWEEN CATALUONE AND THE JOINT STATE OF THE SPAIN. [[File number 210/000031]] - COMPARISON, AT THE PROPER REQUEST, OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT AFTER THE FULL OF THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTES, TO REPORT ON THE GOVERNMENT'S POSITION WITH REGARD TO THE POLITICAL SITUATION OF CATALUNE. [[File number 210/000032]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the President of the Government appearing at his own request at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies to report on the position of the Government with regard to the political situation in Catalonia, which will be dealt with in conjunction with the President of the Government's request for urgent attendance at the plenary session of the House to explain how he intends to resolve the crisis of institutional relations between Catalonia and the Spanish State as a whole; a request has been made by Mrs Montero Gil and 70 other Members. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Council of Ministers agreed this morning to formally request the Government of the Generalitat to confirm whether it has declared Catalonia's independence, apart from the deliberate confusion created over its entry into force. This requirement, which takes place under article 155 of our Constitution, aims to provide citizens with the clarity and security that requires such an important issue. It is Mr Puigdemont's response to this requirement that will mark the future of events in the coming days. In his hand he is returning to legality and restoring institutional normality, as everyone is asking, or prolonging a period of instability, tensions and bankruptcy of coexistence in Catalonia. I fervently wish you to agree with your answer. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be very clear from the very beginning. Our democracy is now one of the most serious moments in its recent history. It is not a competition dispute or a difference between administrations, we are not even faced with a public order problem; it is not so, unfortunately it is not so. What we are living these days in Catalonia, Spain and Europe has nothing to do with the political differences that are managed democratically every day in democratic countries. We are faced with facts, behaviours and attitudes that far outweigh the healthy political controversy inherent in civilized societies. We are faced with questioning and challenging prerequisites for any political discussion. I am referring to principles such as the rule of law, the rule of law or the deliberate breakdown of agreement among citizens. We are finally talking about an unprecedented questioning of the axes on which a democratic society is based: freedom, plurality and legality. Ladies and gentlemen, since we regained democracy forty years ago, we Spaniards have been able to find in the diversity of ideas, aspirations and projects a space for agreement, where citizens from all corners of Spain feel represented. That agreement, embodied in our Constitution, unites generations, territories and people in a common project that has made us one of the best countries in the world. This is what has been put at risk in recent times. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems in Catalonia with all their gravity are nothing more than the inevitable consequence of the institutional crisis that has been deliberately and irresponsibly created there for months. What happened in the plenary sessions of Parliament on 6 and 7 last September has been the trigger of an escalation of radicality, disobedience and riots that are unprecedented in our recent history. Diagnosis of the situation does not allow many discrepancies. The rulers of Catalonia, the main representatives of the state there, have used their institutional position to carry out an unfair and very dangerous attack on our Constitution, the unity of Spain, the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy itself and - worse - against peaceful coexistence among citizens, something that no responsible governor should allow. On 1 October, the Autonomous Government failed to comply with the law, the judgments of the courts, their own legality, and also used the streets to simulate a democratic legitimacy that was lacking in its decisions. Those of us who are present in this Chamber embody the Legislative Power on behalf of the citizens. On behalf of the citizens you control the work of the Government, we make laws in accordance with the Constitution and the will of the citizens. That is democratic legitimacy, and there is no alternative legitimacy in front of it. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have seen these days on the streets of Catalonia, the disorder, the division between Catalans and finally the flight of companies, are but dramatic consequences of the violation of the law. It is the law that allows us to live civilizedly, that protects the rights of all, that defends the weak, that delimits the channels of coexistence in harmony. When the law fails, arbitrariness triumphs, abuse, injustice, rights are trampled on, and harmony disappears. We are free when we all submit to the law and lose that freedom when the law stops protecting us. That is why what is not legal is not democratic. Throughout this speech, I intend to explain the details of what has happened and of the Government's response. I am already telling you that the fundamental thing is that this illegal referendum, designed to blow up our Constitution, the unity of Spain and the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia itself, has completely failed, as the Central Electoral Board attested last week. Consequently, no alleged result of that illegal and fraudulent referendum can be made as an argument for legitimizing any political decision, let alone the independence of Catalonia. I shall refer to that in detail throughout this speech. I will also listen very carefully to the proposals you have to make and their contributions to a debate that, as we have all seen these days, affects the deepest nerve of Catalan society and of Spanish society as a whole. The Catalans and the Spanish as a whole are experiencing the events of these days with concern and with zozobre. We all have an obligation to contribute to mitigating this disquiet with serenity, defending our standards of coexistence and our values, including respect for the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, on 1 October last the Government of the Government of Catalonia intended to hold an illegal referendum. It was neither innocent nor spontaneous nor democratic. It was the last episode of a political strategy aimed at imposing on the whole of Catalan society and on all Spaniards an independence that few want and no one agrees. In order to know how we have reached this point, it is appropriate to frame this date in its context. To understand what has happened, and to prevent it from happening again in the future above all, we would have to go back to 2012. At that time the Spanish economy was going through a critical moment, because it was on the verge of rescue and all the autonomous communities had serious difficulties. Catalonia was no exception, it was actually the one that was in the worst situation. On 20 September of that year the then President of the Generalitat asked me for a meeting at which he asked me to allow Catalonia to take up the Autonomous Liquidity Fund to deal with a debt of more than EUR 5 billion, and we agreed. He also asked me what he knew he couldn't afford: an economic concert for Catalonia. I reminded him that this system had no place in our Constitution and could not be faced by the whole of Spain, especially at a time of serious economic crisis. His answer was that we should stick to the consequences. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that creative invitation to dialogue: either referendum or referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to make this very clear. There was always a willingness for dialogue on my part. I have had more interviews with those responsible for the Generalitat than with those of any other autonomous community. I have always shown my sincere willingness to understand and collaborate in solving Catalonia's problems. If they had wanted to dialogue, it would not have been necessary for them to convene autonomous elections in 2012, a referendum simulation in 2014 and other autonomous elections - although they called them plebiscite - in September 2015, with the result of all known: whoever did it lost more and more support. This is another reality that we must not ignore every time we talk about this issue. They have never had the democratic support of the Catalans to advance independence. Nevertheless, they continued in their flight forward. Instead of seeking an alliance with any of the most representative parties in Catalonia, instead of seeking an agreement, they decided to fall into the arms of the most minority and anti-systemic political force of all, the UPC. It did not matter that I demanded the sacrifice of Mr. Mas in public square. They accepted it, along with the commitment to launch themselves into the abyss of independence in just eighteen months. The rulers of Catalonia cannot claim that they did not talk to them, simply because it is not true. Nor can they claim that they have not been helped like the rest of the autonomous communities, because in recent years they have had access to almost €70 billion in liquidity mechanisms, approximately one third of the national total. They cannot even claim that my Government or my person is the only one opposed to their claims. I remind you that this House also refused to grant you the competence to organize a referendum on self-determination in April 2014. This is the reality of the facts, ladies and gentlemen. Their reasons are not true, nor are their support so much. They have the necessary votes and legitimacy to govern the autonomous community, but not to impose unilateral independence or to liquidate their own autonomous status. [[Applauds]] This is the first anti-democratic vice of this whole operation; it responds to a deliberate strategy to separate Catalonia from Spain against the majority of Catalans and the Spanish as a whole, which - let us not forget - are the only competent ones to decide on this issue. A plan as I say anti-democratic from its origin, but also by its methods and its consequences. Proof of this is what happened in the Parliament of Catalonia on 6 September; that was not an ordinary session, but a fraudulent debate, an act of interference in which the suspension of the Constitutional Court was disobeyed and opposition parties were deprived of their legitimate rights. Our Constitution was attacked, also the rules and institutions of self-government of Catalonia and the statute itself, several of whose precepts were violated at the session on the 6th, and which was finally settled at the session on the 7th with the adoption of the Transitional Law. If any unwary had not yet perceived the true authoritarian and exclusive nature that leads the Catalan institutions, it became meridianly clear on those dates. In order to impose their project, they need to blush some Catalans against others, harass the dissenter and impose a uniformity that does not exist. In other words, to go above all that constitutes the deliberative and inclusive exercise that defines a democratic regime. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this blow to our model of coexistence, the State's response has been adjusted to law, proportionate and comprehensive. Thanks to joint action by all institutions, the logistics organization of the self-determination referendum was deactivated before the referendum took place. On 27 September the Venice Commission already certified that the intended consultation did not meet the standards required by the Council of Europe. Following Sunday's day, the Central Electoral Board, in an agreement adopted unanimously, confirmed that the referendum on self-determination had not existed, because it lacked the guarantees of objectivity and transparency in its development, scrutiny and control, and that therefore no outcome could be admitted from it. That, ladies and gentlemen, did not happen by chance, but by the systematic action of all the powers of the State that deprived the call of any kind of legitimacy. I remind you of one of these elements: legality. The Law Regulating the Referendum and the summons decrees were suspended by the Constitutional Court. Also the decree of complementary norms and the constitution of the Electoral Union. The official bulletin of the Generalitat itself published the suspension of the same on 18 September. The Electoral Union. All members of the Electoral Union resigned after the Constitutional Court had announced them with coercive fines. His resignation has been published in the BOE. Papers and any other official documentation. The Civil Guard, following judicial instructions, seized more than 10 million ballot papers, the minutes of the establishment of the bureaux, the list of voters and the ballot papers. Election tables. There was no official notification to the presidents, members and members of the bureaus, because the Civil Guard intercepted official notifications. Official census. There was no electoral census, and the Spanish Data Protection Agency opened a file for illegitimate use of personal data in connection with the electoral census, following various complaints made by individuals. Censal cards. The Generalitat renounced the sending of mandatory census cards at any election call. Electoral administration. The Government ceased to be fully responsible for it in an attempt to circumvent the enforcement fine of EUR 12 000 per day imposed by the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, there were no representatives of the administration who ensured neutrality. ANC, Ómnium Cultural and other associations were, both the promoters of the referendum and those responsible for monitoring. And in case all this wasn't enough on the same day 1 and good morning changed their game rules unexpectedly. They said: Vote wherever you want and whenever you like, don't worry about the result as it's written in advance. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, nothing mattered that the supporters of a box were the same people who put the ballot boxes and counted the votes in the most unsuspected places. In these conditions no one can be surprised that there were more votes than inhabitants in some localities. It did not cause any surprise that computer systems did not work, that the ballot boxes arrived full or that people voted on the street or in private houses. And to end so purposely the president announced his victory before counting the votes, if anyone thought to do such a thing. [[Applauds]] As they can see, an exercise that does not withstand the most elementary proof of transparency, neutrality and veracity control of the result, has been ratified by the Central Electoral Board. Ladies and gentlemen, there is not a single country in the world that has taken what we experienced on 1 October very seriously. I would like to stress that the State has acted as any democratic country would have done, to act against those who fail to comply with the law is to protect the rights of all. For this reason, I must thank on behalf of all the Spaniards who, exemplary and in very difficult conditions, have fulfilled their duty in defending the common good, I am referring to the judges and prosecutors, but also to the police and the Civil Guard. [[Prolonged applause]] All of them have carried out their work with dedication and professionalism: material has been seized, records have been made, complaints have been made, public authorities have been summoned, and all in accordance with the democratic guarantees of our rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, everything within the law and to defend, as is our obligation, the law. No one can like what happened on October 1, no one can feel happy or satisfied, nor the image that was given either of the farce of the votes or of the gross manipulations that that day were poured against the police and the Civil Guard. None of this should have happened, but the only ones responsible - it should not be forgotten - are those who committed themselves to keeping that call knowing that it was absolutely unworkable. The culprits were those who were involved in continuing their challenge to the Constitution, and organized groups of activists to prevent the security forces from fulfilling the judicial mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, do not look for other culprits other than the real culprits. Let me now turn to the subject of what happened on 1 October for a reflection on democracy and what it implies, because it has been so crude and so crude the manipulated invocation of it that it seems to me necessary to recall three or four basic notions. The first is that a representative democracy such as that enjoyed by the Spaniards is inseparable - I repeat, inseparable - from respect for the very framework that makes it possible: the framework of the Constitution and the law that every public representative undertakes to comply with and enforce. Democracy cannot be exercised outside the rules that govern it. A democracy without rules and procedures is not viable, and a democracy in which rules and procedures are ignored or violated is not a democracy. Secondly, the vote is essential in democracy - I believe so - but it is a complete falsehood that mantra that has been so abused: voting is democracy. Voting against democracy, as has been the case, and even voting outside democracy is not democracy, and in this particular case none of the rules linking the vote to democracy has been complied with. The farce of October 1st was not a democratic exercise, but an exercise against democracy, and everything that has happened after that day has been nothing more than the inevitable consequences of this failure of legality. Ladies and gentlemen, during these forty years our common life has been in general so peaceful and democratic that the recognition of the basic foundations of our civic agreement could seem to us to be a routine, a set of phrases made or, worse, a set of hollow phrases. However, in the light of the events of these days, we have all regained the exact perception of the scope and importance of these values. The efficient and peaceful management of the complexity of interests that characterizes the coexistence of an advanced country requires a permanent and agreed dialogue, under the daily coverage of the law. Either the law is the axis of gravity of coexistence or any society is atomized in an endless amount of conflict. When the law - the democratic law - is broken, society as a whole is resentful, and the road to widespread unreason and chaos is paved. Fear, insecurity and squalor arise, coexistence is broken and well-being ends up being liquidated. Before 1 October, and after that date, we have witnessed all kinds of examples of that failure to live together. We have seen clashes among citizens, harassment of mayors who refused to cooperate with the referendum, intimidation of judges, insults to journalists and harassment of the Security Forces. We have seen unacceptable behaviors in some schools and painted threatening against the dissenters. We have known the violation of personal data that must be protected by law. In this environment dozens of companies have announced in recent days their departure from Catalonia. Large companies, exemplary in their entrepreneurial capacity, that raised the prosperity of this autonomous community and that contributed to carrying the Catalonia brand all over the world, have been forced to leave there in the face of the threat of the breakup. Also in the last few days several rating agencies have worsened the rating of Catalonia, which has not affected the Community as it continues to be financed through the Spanish Treasury. The tourism sector is one of the worst hit by instability, with a fall in reserves, according to the sector's sources, of up to 20% in high-end hotels and 40% in tourist apartments. It serves as a sign of the negative impact a single fact that is truly remarkable. There have been many more warnings and recommendations to international travellers, due to the events of these days, than following the terrorist attacks on the Ramblas and Cambrils last August. It is not appropriate to continue calling yourself new deceptions. These serious consequences will be followed by worse ones as long as the order, legal certainty and rule of law are not restored in Catalonia. That is why it is urgent, ladies and gentlemen, to return to legality as soon as possible, to do so as soon as possible and to prevent social tension and economic deterioration from continuing. The leaders of the autonomous institutions must put an end to that drift that is doing so much damage to all Catalans, to the reputation of that community, to their future and to their well-being. Never in its history have the citizens of Catalonia enjoyed more freedoms, more autonomy, more spending capacity and more international recognition. Now all that's at risk. The maxim according to which all extremism ends up destroying what it claims has been reconfirmed. Independence is about to give way to the best era in Catalonia in all its history and reality, the relentless reality, ladies and gentlemen, has dismantled from a pen all the falsehoods upon which the myth of an independence of fairy tale had been founded. It is not peaceful, it is not free, it will not be recognised by Europe and now everyone knows that it has very high costs. A fraudulent referendum such as last October 1st cannot be carried forward by a community of seven and a half million people or the fourth country of the European Union. Spain will not break until it is decided by its citizens and by any Government, which I preside or which I may preside over any of you, will be obliged to defend the unity of the country and national sovereignty. This is a common good that can't be plotted or amputated or missold or subjected to cambalaches, magic tricks, scorns or caramboles. Precisely because of this and because of its enormous importance, no one can be surprised that from the very beginning he has asked for the support of those who are willing to defend our Constitution and our coexistence. I have called for responsible and generous support, because values that we all care about are being threatened; values that we share and that we have placed far above our differences. These are the principles that house and make it possible for us to disagree in peace and freedom. The unity of the Democrats is very important, and from here I pledge to continue to persevere to maintain it and, if possible, expand it. Ladies and gentlemen, I know very well that the future of Catalonia and the tranquillity of its citizens goes hand in hand with closing the fracture and damaging the wounds that so many stories and so much radicality have caused in their social bodies. Catalonia, like the rest of Spain, is the result of a flow of affections intertwined for centuries, ladies and gentlemen, a place where everyone can be different without anyone being created more than anyone else. That is the future to which we must aspire: to find again that mestizo Catalonia that has contributed so much to the well-being and progress of Spain. We have to rely on the Catalanism pactist and integrator that has given Catalonia its best moments, which has always had an integral vision of its country and which has managed to make its achievements universal. Today's Spain cannot be understood without the contribution of that constitutional and European Catalanism, which was a necessary collaborator in our collective successes. I say this with full knowledge, because I have participated directly in some of the agreements that have been entered into during a phase of loyal cooperation that we all miss today. I have always been and remain a strong supporter of dialogue as a form of conflict resolution in politics, in everyday life or in any field, but I must warn - because many things are said - that it is not possible to accept under the appearance of an equivocal dialogue the unilateral imposition of views that are known to be impossible to accept by one of the parties. Nor is it possible to establish a dialogue to agree on what is expressly prohibited in article 2 of the Constitution: to negotiate on the ownership of sovereignty that corresponds to the Spanish as a whole and on the indivisibility of Spain. That is something that must be taken into account by the numerous mediators who have offered themselves during these days - most of them with good intentions - to help find a way out of this situation. I can only thank you for your concern and interest, but there is no possible mediation between democratic law and disobedience or illegality. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, here we are not diluting differences in interpretation of the Constitution, the laws of the State or the Statute of Catalonia. The Government of Catalonia knows perfectly well that it is failing to do so. What, then, is what is meant to be clarified through mediation? Should a third party tell the Government of the nation to abandon its duty to comply with and enforce the Constitution and laws? That a letter of nature be given to the disloyal action of the Catalan Government? That you recognize a right that doesn't exist? Ladies and gentlemen, the plot which has been set up around a supposed right to decide - and which many people have believed in good faith - is in fact a trapping way of invoking a right of self-determination which no democratic constitution contemplates, I repeat, no democratic constitution contemplates. The United Nations, whose resolutions are invoked in a partial and interested manner, does not recognize that right, but only to peoples subject to colonial domination, and, on the contrary, maintains - I quote textually - that any attempt to violate in whole or in part the national unity and territorial integrity of a country is incompatible - I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, incompatible - with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. More broadly, it is false and contrary to any rule of international law to invoke a right to decide that it does not exist in a democratic country that respects international law and is an active member of the international community and one of the most complete democracies in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, can we have a dialogue in a situation like this? There can be dialogue on the quantity and quality of public services, on their financing, on improving self-government, on how to combine efficiency and solidarity, and on accountability. Can the cohabitation framework be improved? Of course, the Conference of Presidents - to which the Government of the Generalitat has not been able to attend - and in all the other sectoral coordination bodies; bilaterally, of course, also, in the context of the various resources that exist for this, and in this Parliament, of course, there can also be dialogue. You can talk about everything that the Constitution and the laws allow you to talk to and with everyone who is willing to talk to. Even the reform of the Constitution itself can be considered, it is far from a perpetual law and has no claim to be so at all. Each and every one of its determinations - including its most essential precepts - can be modified, and that aspiration is recognized and protected by the norm itself. The Constitution can also be amended, but only through the rules and procedures provided for it. In a deliberative democracy like ours, everything is susceptible to dialogue, but - let us remember - dialogue is the opposite of trying to advance through illegality, threat or faits accompli. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I make my own the words of King Philip in his speech last October 3rd. [[Rumors]] We will go forward because we believe in our country and we are proud of what we are; because our democratic principles are strong, solid and because they are based on the desire of millions of Spaniards to live together in peace and freedom. The Government will continue to fulfil its obligation to defend the law and unity of Spain, always seeking the fundamental principle of restoring harmony and social peace because we are all children of the same sun and taxaries of the same river. In the heat of that common sun have grown generations of men and women who have shared a history, a culture, many dreams and also some disappointments. Like any country, our history has very painful pages that we have been able to overcome and whose teachings we have incorporated into our coexistence. We have been together for centuries, mixing with each other, sharing feelings and that common house that houses us all. We have been able to make our diversity a strength, so Spain that is suffering for what is happening today is a Spain that wants Catalonia, that feels it as a fundamental part of itself, with its own language, with its culture and with its own way of being. It is that inclusive, friendly and serene Spain to which I would also like to send my recognition from this rostrum. I am talking about the thousands and thousands of Spaniards who during these days have gone out to the streets, also those of Catalonia to spontaneously proclaim their patriotism, their love of their country, even from different political positions. They have done so without stridentities, without exclusions, with the joy of recognizing themselves as companions of the same common project. For all of them, it is time to put an end to this tear and to do so with serenity, with prudence and with the ultimate goal of regaining coexistence. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u136	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Robles Fernández has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, I would like to begin by saying that I agree with your intervention. Indeed, we are experiencing very difficult moments in Spanish democracy, very serious moments, and precisely because we are experiencing very difficult and very serious moments for our rule of law, we believe that it is the time for politics, and we believe that it is the time for politics that is being done here in Parliament. That is why we have to tell you that we would have liked this appearance that you do today to have done on October 2nd. On October 1st you said that you would appear immediately before this Congress, and we had to wait eleven days to hear your explanations and I regret and my group regrets that you did that a bit to tow the decisions that were made yesterday in the Parliament of Catalonia. We have to claim the role of this Parliament, of this Congress, because this is where real politics is done, and our group wants to claim it clearly. I would say that the Socialist Party is a party with 140 years of history; it is a party whose men and women have committed themselves, suffering prison and even paying with the price of their lives, defending rights, freedoms and the rule of law. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party has always been a state party, a government party, a party that has brought modernity to this country - a country that has been greater thanks precisely to the Socialist Party - and that Socialist Party has contributed to the strength of Spain's European institutions precisely because of the role of socialist men and women. And because we have and have always had a sense of state as a party of government that we are, so we will continue to behave: as a party of state in defense of legality and the Constitution. And you know why? Because the Spanish Constitution of 1978 was the fruit of the efforts of so many people; of those generous people who made the transition in our country, who left aside many differences to build a stable framework, a stable framework of coexistence, a stable framework in which any agreement was possible and a stable framework that allowed - you have said and I agree with you - your own reform. There is Title X of the Constitution which includes the possibility of reforming the Constitution. We socialists defend this constitutional framework because during the transition, as I said before, many socialist men and women even paid the price of their freedom to reach this state of coexistence that we have today. Many socialist men and women, many Spaniards and many Catalans also did so that they gave their freedom to have that constitutional framework today. [[Applauds]] This constitutional framework, as we say, allows for reform, as also permitted by the Statut d'Autonomie de Catalunya. I remember that cry from all the Catalan people: Freedom, amnesty and the statute of autonomy! Or when L'estaca de Lluis Llach was not a heritage only of some but of all the Democrats in this country who fought for rights and freedoms. [[Applauds]] We say so precisely because we firmly believe in the values of the Constitution and the rule of law. Some now believe that until they arrived there was no policy in this country and there was, there was a policy of those who generously made the transition, of those who taught us to learn in freedom and democracy, and that is why the Socialist Party cannot accept what happened in Catalonia on 6 and 7 September. He cannot accept it because, from the point of view of coexistence and the rule of law, the minimum rules were broken. A State governed by law which also has a Statut d'Autonomie cannot impose rules, as was imposed on a part of the population of Catalonia. In addition, the precepts of the statute itself, legal reports and rules of international law were omitted. Laws came out - the law of transition and the law of referendum - that had no support or legal certainty, even in the area of international law to which the Government of the Generalitat referred. That is why we cannot accept it from the Socialists. We cannot accept anything of what followed; we cannot accept supposed unilateral declarations that leave out a very important part of the population of Catalonia. But what country does it want to build when only 38% of the citizens of Catalonia have voted? [[Applauds]] We cannot accept those unilateral declarations which exclude and leave out an important part of Catalonia, which impoverish it and which, you know what, affect mainly the middle classes and the working classes. Therefore, let it be very clear that the Socialist Party will never accept a breach of the legality and basic principles of a rule of law contained in the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy. That is why we have asked the Government of the Generalitat to return to the constitutional framework, to that constitutional framework that allows everything: that allows debate, that it is a framework of coexistence and that allows its own reform. I, Mr Rajoy, thank you for this call to prudence and I think it is good that we make policy; I think it is good that we make it because you have done nothing self-critical here, and perhaps it is good that politicians or those of us who are engaged in politics do something self-critical. I believe that his Government has often failed to understand the Catalan reality, for example, when this appeal was brought before the Constitutional before the Statute of Catalonia, or when in 2015 a reform of the Constitutional Court Act was made to rape the Constitutional Court a little bit and it was the Constitutional Court that resolved the issues; or when issues that would have to be strictly political were brought to justice; or when the police, the security forces of the State, were brought to Catalonia under very unfortunate working conditions. [[Applauds]] That is why my parliamentary group also wants to show the utmost appreciation to the judges, prosecutors and the police; to that police who, if he acted, was by political instructions, certainly wrong political instructions. I would like to thank, on behalf of my group, all the media that have allowed us to be informed day by day about what was happening; that information transparency which is so absolutely necessary. Mr. Rajoy, we picked up your glove. We believe that it is time to make politics, politics with capital, and for that we socialists return to our history, to that commitment to rights, to freedoms and to citizens. The Socialist Party has made Spain great and will continue to make it great; it will make it lead in Europe as it should, that Europe in which we want to work the socialists of rights, freedoms and citizens, in which everyone has room, because we have a constitutional framework that allows that room. And we call once again that the request made to the Government of the Generalitat be made clearly for the defence of constitutional values and for dialogue within the Constitution. I would also like to say that for this Socialist Party which has fought for democracy, which has fought for Europe, which recognizes, internalizes and assumes the basic values of the Constitution of freedom, equality, justice and political pluralism, it is essential to make policy and to do so here, within this framework, in Parliament. That is why the Socialist Party has inspired, set up a committee to study and reform the territorial model in which I would like to thank virtually all the political forces, including yours, that have made that bet to work and analyze the territorial model that we have. I ask Mr Rajoy, his group and all the forces, without exception, to join the draft dialogue to be held in the parliamentary seat; I agree that we need no more mediators than we, who are representatives of popular sovereignty. [[Applauds]] I would like to invite all of you to speak in this committee of study and dialogue for six months within the constitutional framework, to come all who want to come, to come Mr Puigdemont, to come the representatives of the Catalan Parliament, to come and explain your project here, because this is where you have to do it... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u138	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u139	And that bet of dialogue in which we extend our hand to all we want it to culminate - you said it before - with a serious and rigorous study within the corresponding framework of a constitutional reform, a constitutional reform that is indispensable precisely because this Constitution that we have has shown that it is the true framework of coexistence, a framework of coexistence in which all belong - yes, gentlemen of the Generalitat de Catalunya - we all belong. [[Applauds]] We all have a place and we can work to ensure that there is adequate reform. I'm gonna end up explaining something. The Socialists - I said at first - have always been with the rule of law, with the Constitution, with rights, with freedoms, with the citizens of this country, with the Catalan citizens - we are - and, above all, with those who have suffered worse as a result of the economic crisis. We want, as I said before, scenarios of dialogue, but we want them here, in this parliamentary seat, in respect of the Constitution and the framework of coexistence resulting from that transition which we are so proud of. In that spirit of transition we understand that everything can be talked about, that everything can be negotiated. There, with dialogue, with the rule of law, with the basic principles of coexistence and tolerance, the Socialist Party, with its history, calls on the citizens of this country to have hope, for all of us to work together in a future of peace and democracy, and that is possible. There, in that defence, in that constitutional framework, he will always find us in the Socialist Party. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u140	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias Turrión has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, I do not think today is the day we have to argue, but today I would like to reflect with you. You, your group and the coalitions for which you presented yourselves represent 7.9 million Spanish citizens and for us your opinion is important. I ask you to give importance to the Confederal Group of more than 5 million citizens and to have the honour of presiding over it. You are President of the Government because you have achieved the support of Citizens and the support of the Socialist Party and, in the last few days, you have again achieved the support of these two political formations and I congratulate you on that. I'll just give you a warning and I'll give it to you in good faith. Trust Mr. Rivera, Mr. Rajoy. [[Laughter]] Mr Rivera, as you well know, is José María Aznar's main political operator in this crisis and you José María Aznar does not like him. [[Laughs and applause.-Continue the rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u142	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u143	I believe, Mr President of the Government, that I do not lie if I tell you that at the moment the only state-level opposition you have in this House is us. You and I are in the antipodes, but I think when we talk we empathize and sometimes we even get along and that's why I ask you to listen to me. Mr President, today we are not talking about a public order problem, today we are not talking about a legal problem, and you are told by the grandson of a captain of the army's legal corps who was sentenced to death and imprisoned for defending the legality of a state against a coup d'état against Spain. What we are talking about here, Mr Rajoy, is a political problem, a political problem that we have had in Spain for a long time, it is not a short-term problem, it is the problem of plurinationality. The political tradition you represent, Mr Rajoy, has been the dominant conservative political tradition in the last two hundred years of Spanish history. That political tradition never recognized that Spain was plurinational, but had to deal with plurinationality. Forty years ago Mr Suárez, who did not have Mr Fraga's intellectual talent, but who had more political instinct, assumed that the Constitution of our country spoke of nationalities. The word nationalities in the 1978 Constitution implies recognizing that Spain is a plurinational country. A right-wing man like Herrero de Minón spoke of shared sovereignty and it is clear that there are shared sovereignty at the international level because, as you know, the monetary policy of Spain is not decided in these Courts, but decided by the European Central Bank and, as you know, the Navarro Improvement Act or the fiscal powers of the Basque Country itself imply that there are shared sovereignty. Mr Dastis acknowledged in an interview that when there is an international treaty involving Basque fiscal powers, the Basque Government must be present. You have at certain times acknowledged that Spain is plurinational. The President of this House, who is of the most valuable thing you have in the party, Mr Rajoy, forty years after the constitution of these democratic courts, said something I would like to remind you of. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u144	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u145	He placed Mr. Tarradellas at the same level as the parents of the Constitution. That was a way of recognizing in a smarter speech than that of the head of state that Spain recognized that the Generalitat of Catalonia pre-existing the Spanish Constitution and that the Constitution recognized a pre-existing institution that was that of the Generalitat. [[Applauds]] There was a time when you knew how to deal with the plurinationality of the state. You know something that you will not be able to recognize here, and that is that you were wrong about the statute; what you did, forcing the judges related to the Constitutional Court, was in practice breaking the territorial Constitution of our country. You were no longer a state party at that time; from that moment on, you used Catalonia to get involved in the flag and defend your party interests, and perhaps as a party it is going well for you, but Spain is going very badly, because since then you are primarily responsible for breaking up Spain, Mr Mariano Rajoy. [[Applauds]] I would ask you, with all the solemnity that the moment deserves, not to apply article 155 of the Constitution. Yesterday Mr Puigdemont listened to Tusk and stopped listening to Arthur Mas, and you know it, Mr Rajoy. You listen to Mr. Tusk, too. I ask you to take the lead in a negotiation and not behind the police and the law; stop acting as leader of the People's Party and act as president of the Government. Stop breaking up Spain, Mr. President. [[Applauds]] I end up with something that as a person and as a Spaniard afflicts me. I do not have children yet, but I would like to have them and I would like my children to know a Catalonia that would be part of a collective project called Spain, but that will only be possible, Mr President, if there is a referendum in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Let us applaud the Members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u146	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the same group, Mr Domènech Sampere. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u147	I was surprised by the speech of the President of the Government, the very detailed account he made of all the actions taken in connection with 1 October; in fact, for a moment I thought that he was not listening to the President of the Government, but to the Attorney General of the State or the Chief of Police, because he had even entered the logistics. I was hoping in this case not to talk so much about what has already been known or to talk so much about police actions that we already know, but to talk above all about political proposals. But I also expected too much, because where there were never political proposals on this issue, why would there have to be them right now? In addition, to begin to explain here that October 1st was a great success of the State... On October 1, you said there would be no ballot boxes, and there would be ballot boxes; you said that no one would vote, and he voted. Indeed, on 1 October, you said, there were no guarantees - they took care not to have them - but I do not think they can explain 1 October either as a state success either in Catalonia or at international level. You said there were no proposals. There's a denial. You say: Dialogue, whatever you want, but we are not going to talk about what 80% of Catalans want, which is the right to decide. It is therefore putting conditions on that dialogue. He says: There is no such thing anywhere in the world. Well, I'll just quote Scotland or Quebec, in case they ring a bell. I have not seen political proposals, I have seen, yes, a denial, but dialogue always has to start unconditionally, talk about everything. Finally, the only thing I've seen here is a requirement that basically says: Can you explain to me what happened yesterday? Because it's basically that. I understand it must be a new failure of the CNI that you don't know what happened yesterday. What happened yesterday was that the Government of the Generalitat took a step to offer dialogue and withdrew - or did not - any glimpse of declaration of independence. Today, President Puigdemont - who is not of my party, nor do I pretend to be of my party - has spoken of dialogue without conditions, which is the same as that said by Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, when he said that President Puigdemont could not make a declaration of independence, but he also said that you should dialogue and that this was done not by force but by using the word. Everyone here throws the laws through their heads, but the dialogue begins by recognizing all the subjects and the possibility of talking about all the proposals and facing up to all the problems. Dialogue doesn't start saying, "It's going to be just about this." Dialogue does not start just by saying: It is going to be a constitutional reform, mine, which I am going to agree with the People's Party; less so if that constitutional reform is on track with the application of Article 155, less so. The spirit of the Transition you mention is the spirit of the return of the Generalitat, not of the intervention of the Generalitat. [[Applauds]] That is why dialogue has to start this way. The dialogue begins with what eight nobles of Peace have said to him - it seems little, but they are eight nobles of Peace - which, in fact, have told him that dialogue is less repressive - not repressive - measures, confrontation of negotiation and search of ways like those of Scotland and Quebec. This has not only been said by eight Nobel Laureates of Peace, I am sure that many world leaders have told it privately, as has also been said by Kofi Annan, Ban Ki-moon or Jimmy Carter. This letter, in which these nobles of Peace explained how dialogue should be, ended with a beautiful phrase, and I think it is important to remember it, because neither can one think that this ends up calling elections from the State or stopping people, because this is not a problem of parliamentary majority, it is a problem of collective wills, and what is not solved now will have to be solved later. I'm done. He ended this letter of the nobles of Peace by saying: Rarely does a people who feel repressed disappear silently in the night. What we don't talk about now won't disappear silently at night. Therefore, dialogue, dialogue, dialogue. And if you can't dialogue, leave, no longer for the good of Catalonia, but for the good of Spain. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u148	For the same group, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rajoy, we have a definition problem. When more than two and a half million people are mobilized in Catalonia to decide, we do not have a problem with certain leaders, we have a problem of a political nature, and so I think we need to address it. Therefore, there are no solutions written exclusively on the basis of recourse to judges, police, civilian guards or even the head of State, who are protagonists in a story, in a narrative in which they should not be; it should be politics, negotiation and dialogue. I believe that these are the tools and political channels that need to be opened, and you and this Government need to open those political channels. Mr. Rajoy, I'm not an independentist, I'm not a nationalist. I was born in Logroño, raised in Seville and Malaga. I'm not confused with the flags. I believe that the cuts you make in public health and public education are the same as Puigdemont, but I do not ignore that political problem. I belong to a party without which the Transition, the PCE, would not be understood, and by that I can say that much remained to be done in the Transition, and many of the errors of that Transition are now being seen. Our country is a plurinational country. Our country has enormous deficiencies, not just territorial ones; it has deficiencies that need to be resolved. People go through deprivations in health, in education; they suffer misery, inequality. All this needs to be addressed, and that is why we need to make a complete review of the constituent element, we need to make a revision of the constitutional adaptation, we need to adapt it to a society that has changed forty years later. That is why we must be bold and courageous. Our country, I insist, is plurinational, and these changes must be made not from above but by relying on people, in a participatory way, and we must ensure that there is a country project that guarantees people their fundamental rights. All of this is at risk, so you are not, please, irresponsible, because we play not the next elections but the next generations. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u150	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, we're on time. Everyone talks about dialogue today. We welcome you. Yes, we and society demand you, Mr Rajoy, not to take measures without return that lead us to confrontation. Mr Rajoy, it's time for politics with capitals, it's time for the word. We have to wonder why we've come all this way, and we've come all this way, you know why? Because you irresponsibly fulminated the Catalan statute, also agreed in this House; because you, Mr Rajoy, had - remember - a president who spoke Catalan in privacy and who ended up fomenting hatred in Catalonia. Mrs.Margarita Robles, with all affection we say to her: Do not allow the People's Party, AP, which did not vote for the Constitution, to take hold of it. Don't let him get close to her. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Mr Rajoy, we have come this far because you do not understand what is happening in Catalonia and also want to humiliate Catalonia. We have come this far also because you want to crush the plurality of this House and want to return to Pre 15M. Restoration. Does that ring a bell, ladies and gentlemen of bipartisanship? Mr Rajoy, from Galicia we say to them: Let us stop hatred as a political weapon, let us stop hatred against Catalonia, let us stop hatred against Spain as well. Remember this: The referendum demand is the only way out. It will be today, it will be in a year, in five years, but there will be a referendum. And we ask you, Mr. Rajoy: Be alert, act like a president of the government, be a statesman. As you know, Galicians are people of the world, we are part of the Catalan people, we are part of the citizenship of Madrid. People ask us to. You, who can, dialogue. Talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u152	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u153	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to everyone, good afternoon to everyone, to everyone you are seeing us from anywhere in Spain, especially today in Catalonia. Yesterday was a very sad day for all those Catalans we want to remain Catalans, Spanish and European. Yesterday we saw how an autonomous parliament that governed a status of autonomy, a parliament that had been upholstered for too long by the dictatorship, a parliament that we had managed to make it a place of autonomy, of freedom, of cooperation, was converted by some gentlemen, by irresponsible politicians, into a theatre in which they wanted to strike Spanish democracy; a coup to Spanish democracy that is either in cash, in deferred or in time is a coup to Spanish democracy and as such we have to deal with it. That is why we cannot lose sight of today that we are facing the greatest challenge this country has had since the 23F in this House, the worst of the challenges, which is to fight against division, to fight against confrontation and - let us speak clearly - to fight against an ideology that seeks to divide the Spaniards, which is nationalism. That is why, as such, we must deal with this matter. We can minimize this issue and simplify things, but I, as a Catalan who I am, refuse to simplify what is already a problem of coexistence today, it is already an economic problem, today it is a problem between neighbours, between partners, between family members; and whoever denies it and who denies it lies. We warned some a long time ago that this was going to happen, that nationalism intended to divide Catalan society, break it in half and break Spain and get us out of Europe, and that is what is happening. Ladies and gentlemen, when we entered this House we swore the Spanish Constitution; I swore the Spanish Constitution to defend the Spanish Constitution, to defend the freedoms of all Spaniards, not to graze outside the Constitution, not to call for international mediators and not to liquidate national sovereignty, which is what this House represents. [[Applauds]] But not only are Members of this House obliged to defend it, there are citizens who, without swearing it, defend it better than we do. A million Catalans, a million citizens - people, even, supporting from all over Spain, families, friends - went out on the street last Sunday. I was there; I was there with them, because I am one of them, because I am a Catalan who wanted to be with them on the street, in my dear Barcelona. It was an exciting day, where we lived the spirit of Barcelona, a spirit of civicism, of respect, but also of demand. The silenced Catalonia said enough and said that we will rebel against those who impose a blow on us, that we will win them, but voting, in the ballot box. The silenced Catalonia said enough; the king, the head of state also said enough last week, with a firm, democratic but hopeful speech also to unite the Spaniards. The European Council two days ago - talking about Europe, which has not been talked about - where all the European governments are, told Mr Puigdemont to stop the blow hours earlier. Therefore, part of the Catalan people, who represent the majority of Catalans - although Mr Puigdemont does not like it - went out on the street. The Catalan people told Puigdemont on 27 September that they had no majority, and gave them the same, they went forward. This has also been said by the European Council, we have also been said by some groups in this House, and finally the government has also acted. I welcome the fact that the Government has finally rehabilitated and made a decision, which is to defend the Spanish Constitution from the Spanish Constitution. No democratic country can give up defending democratic laws. Do you imagine Germany or France praying to see if the CUPs do not declare independence? Do you imagine Macron or Merkel in a crisis cabinet waiting to see if there are differences between the CUP and PDeCat and Puigdemont and Junqueras? No, right? We do not expect a worthy country and a decent country that is in the hands of people who want to liquidate it. So we have to get going. The Spaniards have to shake hands. And I already know that some people don't like us giving our hands to the Spaniards that we think differently. Mr Iglesias, do not have any doubt, I have no complex to share with Mr Felipe González or Mr Aznar or Mr Rajoy or Mr Sánchez diagnosis and solutions. Don't be mistaken. [[Applauds]] But he would have a problem if he were in his place, sharing with those who want to liquidate equality between the Spanish, such as Mr Puigdemont, project and cause. So it wouldn't be me. [[Applauds]] Not only are we playing the economy and stability, we are playing the coexistence between Catalans, we are playing not being enemies among ourselves, we are playing to keep what is an intangible, to live in freedom, and we are also playing the dignity and respect of the Spaniards. I want you to think what message we would give to an average Spaniard today, who is tired of paying taxes, who has passed a crisis and is still suffering it, who pays his self-employed, who does not arrive at the end of the month, who does not find work, who with difficulties arrives at the end of the month with his pension, who fulfills all the laws, who fines him, who has to pay to Hacienda, if now it turns out that a coup player is blackmailing us and new privileges come out of the coup. What would an average Spanish citizen think who is watching us, who has to pay and fulfill every day, who ultimately defends as a patriot by paying taxes every day and let's say here: Gentlemen, look for an international mediator so that Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras achieve their goals without going through the ballot box and without reforming the Constitution. It would be unacceptable for this House to make deaf ears, it would be unacceptable for us to look elsewhere. I feel closer to those Spaniards who want to comply with the laws than they do to those who want to jump them. I feel closer to those Spaniards of good, who want to respect the one who thinks differently, than those who want to impose a decadent ideology like nationalism. So we are also playing with respect for our citizens. Some say these days: It is that if the Constitution is applied they will be angry Puigdemont and Junqueras. Do you know who's going to get angry if we don't apply the Constitution? The vast majority of the Spanish people will end up angry. [[Applauds]] So we are going to defend what this House represents, national sovereignty, the Spanish people and we are going to act without complexes, with firmness and at the same time with prudence to implement our Constitution. The Government has finally decided to request the Government of Catalonia to cease its illegal, unconstitutional, anti-democratic activity. Where's the problem? Who is against compliance with the laws in this country? Raise your hand, because here we make laws, eh, gentlemen. All these who say, Lord Rajoy, hide not behind the law. Pardon me, it's that if Mr. Rajoy didn't enforce the law, he'd be prevaricating, because he can't be president of the government, a member of a government, a minister of justice, a prosecutor or a judge and not enforce the laws. The legislators are obliged to be the first to defend the law. Do you know what the law in democracy is? The power of those who do not have the power, the right of those who cannot be defended except by the law. The powerful, privileged, those who strike democracy today skip the laws, invent new ones and apply the articles they want. Mr. Junqueras, in an interview the other day, asked which part of the statute was in force, which part of the Constitution was in force, calmly answered: "Everything that does not go against the process and the law of the referendum. They have repealed not the statute, but the articles that give them the desire. How can we dialogue with those who are liquidated by law and respect for citizens' rights? We have to dialogue, of course; this is the party that has dialogued most in Spain. We have reached agreements with the Socialist Party in some communities, also with the People's Party, and we have passed laws with groups with which we disagree in the country model, as recently the Spanish Broadcasting Act and the Autonomous Act. We are capable of dialogue, but, ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group which speaks to you is capable of dialogue between democrats and compatriots. We are not trained and we would be reckless if we were to rely on a dark table, an international mediator, which is the responsibility of this House and the Spanish people. [[Applauds]] The time has come to act and to do so democratically. In our opinion, what needs to be done is to decide, vote because we are not going to get out of this if we do not vote sooner or later, if we do not pass the ballot box. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] No one is going to make unilateral decisions to decide who rules in Catalonia. We'll agree, won't we? As no one will decide, except the Catalans, who rules in Catalonia, let's set a date. That is what I suggest, that in addition to applying the Constitution, we give it a democratic way out. The other day the opposition leader defended him in Parliament, but also Mr.Iceta and Mr.Albiol defended him. It therefore seems that there is a common minimum of consensus, which is going to vote and decide in democracy. I'm not afraid of the ballot boxes, because I want real ballot boxes, not like the ones we saw on October 1st. I'm not afraid to make political decisions, I'm not afraid to reach agreements with anyone who thinks differently. Catalonia's future goes by being generous, reaching agreements and restoring democracy in Catalonia again, but that will not happen if we do not, sooner or later, go through the polls. I also want to reform the Constitution of my country, because I want to leave our children a better Constitution than they have, because we have to update it, because I want to leave a better country for our future, for those who come, but we have to do it among democrats, we have to do it in this House, we have to do it by reforming what does not work. And I am very pleased that the Socialist Party - with which we have reached an agreement on this point - and the People's Party - which has never wanted - now decide that the Constitution can be reformed. I hope you will vote in favour of abolishing the outbursts, which you have not done in thirty-five years; I hope you will want to reform the Senate in that constitutional reform, which you have not done in thirty-five years; I hope you will want to change the Electoral Law, which you have not done in thirty-five years; and I hope you will come where we want to reform the Constitution. But for that it takes courage, to recognize the mistakes of the past and not to continue with the same mistakes. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let us not confuse desires with reality. I would love for the request made by the President of the Government to be answered in a few hours by Mr Puigdemont, saying: You are right, Mr Rajoy, we must comply with the laws; we are going back to democracy and we are going to start talking about health problems, education and labour problems. But I think it would be naive for some of us to be Members of this House. That's not gonna happen. Mr Puigdemont and his adviser have just said that they want an international mediator, without lights or tachographs, outside the institutions, outside democracy; in short, to blackmail all Spaniards. Therefore, we are at a complex moment, this is not solved with magical ideas, because it has been building for a long time - thirty years of nationalism in Catalonia - neither with study commissions nor with occurrences; this is solved by stopping the coup, going to the elections, having a new interlocutor and then, yes, with the new interlocutor and with people who respect the laws by reforming our Constitution. Emmanuel Macron said the other day in an intervention, precisely speaking of Europe, that nationalism has shown us the bonfire where Europe can perish. Nationalism is the main adversary of European construction, and those of us who are Europeanists have to be aware of the end of the mess, the end of the change of chromosomes, the end of the pastry with nationalism. The time has come for the national parties, who want a project for this country, with our differences - socialist, liberal, conservative - to be able to have a common minimum. And let's not get out of the easy way, to give nationalism always what it asks for, because today only one thing remains to be asked, which is independence, which has been suspended, to blackmail us. Let us take note of the mistakes of the past, let us give a hand among democrats to defend our Constitution without complexes, but with serenity and, above all, let us bear in mind that the greatest risk Europe has today is called nationalism and populism and that in Spain we also have a good dose of it. It would be good if we were conscious. I ended with a phrase that King Philip VI said in 2014, in the speech of the then Prince of Asturias awards. He said that the Spaniards are no longer enemies among us, that we cannot continue to be enemies among us. Do you know what's going on these days in Catalonia? That nationalism has made some Spaniards enemies among us. They've pointed to people, divided families, groups of friends, neighbors. They're dividing us, and I don't want to go through this again. As a Catalan I say and I ask this House: Please defend the Catalans who are not nationalists, defend democracy, defend all those who do not make noise, do not manifest themselves, respect others, want to go and vote and want to get out of it. We owe it to the heroes of Catalonia to get out of this; we owe it to those who have respected others to get out of this; we owe it to those of the 8 October demonstration that this House responds. [[Rumors]] Yes, to those who comply with the laws; to those who do not comply with the laws we owe nothing, but to those who comply with the laws this House owes much. So, as the king said, the Spaniards are no longer rivals among us. Let's see if it's true, let's see if we get started and see if we're able to recover the seny and abandon the gloom. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u154	For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak to you as Catalan, Catalan of the Catalan nation, a Catalan nation that lost its national institutions three hundred years ago, which is why we cannot be accused of being responsible for the great hecatombs, for the great wars that have provoked state nationalisms. Mr Rajoy, a few months ago in the investiture debate I told you something. I have read the Journal of Sessions and you - I think you mocked me a bit, you will know why, and even ridiculed me - said that my words provoked fear. I only told him that historically there have been two ways of resolving national conflicts: one, the democratic path - perhaps the case of Scotland would be the last example of this model - and two, the authoritarian path. I told him that you had chosen the authoritarian route and I even dared to tell him - I think I was right - more or less where we would be now. I even told him that it was possible for political prisoners to exist again in the Kingdom of Spain, and I think we are at the door of that. Why is this difference? Basically, because you and I -- sorry, you and we -- don't share the same idea. We say that there is no democracy without consent. It is not the force that makes the union; moreover, consent is the fundamental thing. If we look at the percentage of Catalan citizens voting for constitutionalist parties in 1978, we go to 90%, and today we are talking - it does not arrive - about 40%. It will then have to be acknowledged that there has been a decrease in this consent to the Spanish Constitution, which I recognize that an immense majority of Catalans regarded as a point of departure of great interest. You are a slave to a historical continuity, from Philip to Philip. Unity by force, Philip IV, the Union of Arms. Unity by force, Philip V, decree of new plant and right of conquest. And Philip VI - from Philip IV to Philip VI - legitimizing the repression that you and your government designed on 1 October; an unprecedented repression in the European democratic world. Not only did 2,200,000 people vote, but they resisted. This is something unheard of in Europe. The Catholics present here will recognize the quote: The Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath. Then the constitutions must respond to the democratic principle; that is, there is no Constitution without respect for the true truth, which is the democratic principle. Did the Supreme Court of Canada, even though the Canadian Constitution did not provide for the right to secession from Quebec, not set aside respect for the will of the Quebec people to decide their future? And if we go further, did the King of Sweden not have the protection of the Swedish Constitution to crush the Norwegians militarily when the Norwegians unilaterally decided to become independent? The Swedish king could do it, but he didn't. Why didn't you do it? Because it is clear that it put forward a democratic principle. But it is true that you and we do not share that principle. If we don't share it, it must be because we start from different origins. You are part of a vision - I was going to say frank, but I would not offend you - that you will accept at least that it is academically and politically a fraguist conception of the unity of Spain. [[Rumors]] Yeah, no offense, I'm saying it's a fraguistic conception. For you, the unity of Spain is summed up in the following: for you, the unity of Spain prevails above and is even pre-democracy. This is unheard of in the 21st century. That is why President Puigdemont made it clear yesterday that we have nothing against Spain and we have nothing against the Spanish. Moreover, intellectually - they should believe what I say because I say it sincerely - we have nothing against the unity of Spain, because it would go against my compatriots who feel Spanish and want to remain Spanish and belonging to the Kingdom of Spain. But they will agree with me - or they should - that this we Catalans can decide. [[Rumors.-Several Members: No!]] I do not intend to be right, I just want you to make the intellectual, historical and political effort to recognize that we are in the twenty-first century. In the twenty-first century, the men and women we tread on this earth are free men and women and, as we are free, we have the right and even the duty to take the chains out of all ideological prejudices and historical scourges. That is why we are talking about the right to decide and empower citizens. You are willing to everything, to everything certainly to preserve the unity of Spain. They are even willing to violate civil rights, they are willing to imprison us, they are even willing not to disallow the Deputy Married. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't mean to offend Congressman Married, I mean to condemn what he said! Because in the background it was the corollary of his thought, to be willing to everything, even to remind us that we had a president who was shot. [[Protests.-Applause.]] And you with these words, what you were doing was showing that you were incapable of getting all the historical prejudices out of hand and catching up. You have opted for an increase in repression, and that is true. We are a peaceful people, we are a peaceful people. I do not say defenceless, but we are a people that we have chosen to be peaceful, perhaps also because we are a nation without a state and because if we are where we are and still are what we are, with many difficulties, and we have even maintained the language is because we have not been able to waste time and we have had to devote great efforts, generations, to maintaining what for others for historical reasons had already secured it. We have never had the temptation to be violent. We couldn't waste our time opting for violence! We have always chosen resistance, creativity to maintain our national consciousness and to be able to forge a nation, a people, enriching ourselves with all the contributions of so many people from all over. What will you tell my friends, family and neighbors that they are not independenceists? What will you tell them? Don't worry, I've already disabled those who are like Joan Tardà. I have fined them, seized them, repressed them and even imprisoned them. Now, free of independenceists, now, non-independence Catalans, you can already live freely. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Is this your project? Do you think the non-independence Catalans are going to applaud him? No, no, Do you know who's going to applaud him? [[A Member of Parliament: Married!]] Fortunately, the few fascists that still exist in our country. [[Rumors]] Yes, only the fascists will applaud him. The vast majority of Catalans, whether we are independent or not, will not applaud this solution because it is an unacceptable solution in the 21st century. And it's also useless, it's sterile, democracy always wins. It's true that they can make us suffer. I believe that there is no right for us to suffer in the twenty-first century, there is no right, but in the end we will win. In the end, democracy will win, democracy is unbeatable. [[Rumors]] Moreover, historically we know what it is to suffer, because in the imagination of Catalans, even in many who are not independentists, the right to decide - whether they like it or not - will no longer disappear. What will provoke his action is that the flag of the right to decide is added to another. Do you know what it is? The flag of amnesty. [[Rumors]] The flag of amnesty and this is going to wipe out your government because Spanish society is not going to allow it and, of course, Catalan society is not going to. I have already announced to you that we will not participate in the Commission proposed by the Socialist Party so that for a few months we can study how and how ideas can be concluded that could be part of the material that would be used by a subcommittee of the Constitutional Commission that would propose a hypothetical reform of the Spanish Constitution; the Spanish Constitution that can only be reformed with the help of you, the Socialist Party and citizens. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] And even if the Catalans all thought the same - I hope this never happens, because Mr Rivera and I are Catalans and think very differently, and this enriches our country, Catalonia -, even if we imagined the absurdity of all Catalans thinking the same, even if we all thought the same, we would always be a demographic minority at the mercy of the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Citizens. [[Applauds]] You know that yesterday in the Parliament of Catalonia happened what happened.. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u156	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u157	... what happened to nearly a thousand journalists, hundreds of televisions; then, to be a domestic subject, it's not bad. The cause of Catalonia had never been as internationalized as it is today. So, as everything is dialectical and the world does not end today at twelve o'clock, it is clear that the position of our Government, the position of the parliamentary majority and the position, I believe, of broad citizen representation before the world, even though you choose to increase repression, will not suffer any setback. We are not criminals; the criminals flee from the police; we are responsible citizens; citizens who, in any case, will opt for the always peaceful resistance, we will defend the Government of Catalonia and, above all, we will defend it when President Puigdemont stands firm in the will to negotiate, in the will to seek mediators, in the will to pose a political problem to the world in order to solve it as we deserve Spanish and Catalan citizens, that is, through... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u158	Mr. Tardà, one second. You have greatly exceeded the time required for this intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u159	I finish, Madam President, and I also thank you for your kindness. In any case, Mr Rajoy, negotiation, mediation, and you know that we will act accordingly, always to the Catalan, civically, peacefully, but we will never, never, take a step back. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u161	Let's wait for your ladies to go to the cafeteria. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u162	Mr Esteban Bravo, the order in this House is issued by the Presidency. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u163	I was saying it so time wouldn't start.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u164	Mr Esteban, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. At this point, Mr President, the dilemma is obvious: to overcome or solve the problem. The first option is simple and easy because the force, both institutional and repressive of State institutions, is clearly in their hands, in the hands of the Government. But what happens is that the problem is much deeper, deeper, and perhaps that victory would not actually solve anything and would mean a defeat in the medium term. That is why it is necessary to analyse the problem well, and of course it does not help anything to qualify what has happened in Catalonia in recent days as a coup d'état, as some members of its formation and some other political party have done; a coup d'état which has equated to 23-F. Nothing to see. What is happening in Catalonia is not a coup d'état: no one wants to deprive others of their freedoms, no one wants to suppress democracy, no one is using guns and no one is threatening to impose a dictatorial regime. We have to go to the facts and the facts are that on October 1st there were normal people, of all conditions, who wanted to vote and who went to vote; people of different ideology also, older and younger, with more means and less means, but of course they were there with that unbreakable will. Frankly, they did not want to vote against democracy or were doing so. That cannot be said, Mr President, because they were not committing any crime. We can't count it a crime to try to put a ballot box in an urn. They were not threatening anyone and, sincerely, there was unnecessary, excessive violence; at some times and at some points the thing went unchecked and, in the face of some passive resistance or even a loss of nerves, what we saw were unreadable and unpleasant scenes. They were not activists who were looking for him and who were provoking him, because if you draw that conclusion it is that nothing has been understood. I know a lot of people who went to vote there, some are friends and other family members, and I assure you - by the way, in my family I have those who wanted to go to vote and those who did not - that those who went to vote there are neither criminals nor activists. The truth, a few words to regret what ended up happening as to the violence we saw in the images would, I think, have been quite helpful. What has happened here, Mr President - and so a large part of the Catalan people feels - is a lack of will for dialogue. And you have to remember some things: not only the brushing of the statute, but some photo - which has recently, by the way, appeared quite in the media - in which you are directing the collection of signatures against the statue; there has not been a tax solution; it has been treated to Barcelona and Catalonia with a certain contempt, with one here is what we say to you, you have to enter through the ring. In such a way that we met on strike day - and this says El País, a newspaper quite close to the government - with people who have gone with Spanish flags saying: I am not in favour of independence, but I could not stay at home. And he was saying it because he doesn't agree that people can't be expressed and because he doesn't agree with what happened that October 1st. Some people have been able to conclude that a negotiated exit or dialogue with the Spanish Government is impossible. Statements of recent times have not helped: Mrs Cospedal lying to Article 8 - armed forces to defend herself from the inner enemy -; Mr Casado, who wants to illegalize ideas and the independenceists, will surely want to illegalize me too. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] ; Mr. Maillo saying that the 800 wounded were a great farce and a lie; Mr. Girauta yesterday said that nationalism is the most reactionary ideology that exists. Of course, Basque nationalism and Catalan must be intolerant nationalism. What we are seeing on some streets in the rest of the state is democratic patriotism, democratic patriotism. [[Applauds]] But of course, intolerant nationalism only with the force of voting alongside democracy also in the hard times, and I say this because of the position of my party during the Civil War and during the Second World War, in the hard times, and instead a democratic patriotism, but there have been conatos of groups, of groups, with fascist outbreaks, and that must also be said. So to describe it with that generality is surprising, as Mr Rivera has now said: nationalism is the greatest enemy of European construction, and you tell me that in the second Aberri Eguna... [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes affirmative gestures]] Yeah, yeah, keep saying yes. In the second Aberri Eguna the motto was: 'Euskadi-Europe'. My party, which was in the new international teams, in the creation of the Christian Democratic International and the European beginning and which contributed a great deal to building Europe. No, state nationalisms are the ones that can, with their selfishness, break up in any case Europe. But, of course, neither Basque nationalism nor Catalan can be blamed for anti-Europeanism. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, you said that what is not legal is not democratic, I have heard it on several occasions. I would add a little something because I think that is not true, not everything that is legal is democratic, and we have examples in many countries. What I would say to you is that democratic is not always legal and legal is not always democratic, because, Mr President, democracy is the rule of law, yes, but also citizen acceptance, and in Catalonia there is an important part of citizenship that does not accept the legal system. And to that one must react, one cannot say: I impose it because yes. Hey, 2 million people, over 2 million people. I suppose you also consider them Spanish, you will have to give them an answer, you can't just stay in a 'no move anything'. Because, moreover, this problem of disaffection is no longer a subject of some competences in health or in another area, no, this is a national problem and we will have to deal with it as such and give it an answer. And Mr. President, you can't stay in the Civil Guard anthem, in 'Long live Spain, live the King, live the order and the law'. It's the mantra they keep repeating. We must say something more than 'Long live Spain, live the King, live the order and the law'. The spokesman for the Government often repeats a great deal: within the law, dialogue without date or expiration. All right, but there is also something more necessary: a will to reach an agreement and even to put your votes at the service of a change in legislation, of a change in the legal order, because, of course, you can say here, as the President has said, that you can change the Constitution, even Article 2 and everything you want, but without expressing any willingness to do so. So, even if all the Catalans and all the Basques agreed to modify those articles, you here would democratically say no, no. [[Applauds]] Although all Basques and Catalans agree on this, do not tell us that the Constitution can be changed, because until they show another attitude that is a formal truth, but it is a falsehood in practice; it is only a formal truth. By the way, like the King, who in my opinion, in the opinion of our group, abdicated from his arbitration duties. Surely in most of the Spanish state I would like the message, I do not say no, but this week a survey has been carried out in Euskadi - I don't know in Catalonia, but I imagine it looks like -, I don't just tell you that it suspends in its recent performance, in its appearance, is that 68% of those consulted put a zero, from zero to ten have put a zero 68% in Euskadi. I think this would give you some thought. Mr President, you and I usually talk about agriculture in many debates, and today I also want to talk about agriculture. I once told him that Spain continues to have the problem of two types of potatoes: Catalan potato and Euskalpatata. Hey, isn't it better if we start counting how many potatoes of each type there are? We'll figure it out first anyway. And you say - moreover, you say it convinced, I am sure, because when you say things absolutely convinced - that the 21st century cannot be a century of imposition, but these things are not managed in democratic countries, how can they not, Mr President? Quebec, which was not ready for use, the Scottish case and has been mentioned to you by the Norwegian case, which, by the way, Mr Tardà, was based on Norwegian historical rights, but it is that Danish law also provides for the right of self-determination for Greenland. In the twenty-first century, in fact, it cannot be imposed by force. Let us therefore face it, let us manage it and the time has come, and with all the guarantees and with all the majorities that are necessary, let us vote. Why not? If it's the best way to make it clear that that silent majority was there. Stop being quiet. Let's vote and count the potatoes. I'm finishing up, Madam President. The truth is that I'm worried about the aggressiveness of the Spanish media, El País, El Mundo and the radios, and I'm surprised because they push you. I'm sure you're getting a lot of pressure and that your position is nothing simple. You are driven to do things and the important thing in a problem like this is to have a certain empathy with each other and know what the situation and possibilities of each other are. I think we should all appreciate what President Puigdemont has done, it was not easy, but he opened the dialogue. There was no formal declaration of independence and it opened the dialogue, and it opened it even though it is in a tripartite Government in which some parties mark others and it is not simple. An opportunity for such a dialogue is being opened. And I also want to understand your statement this morning, Mr President, I want to understand it in the same sense because, on the one hand, time is being saved and, on the other hand, you know perfectly well that there has not been a formal declaration of independence in Parliament. In addition, I'll tell you one thing: I think what you do is ask, do not require according to Article 155. If you interpret it as 155, very well, but I think that required further action later because, if you read the Constitution, what you have to require is the fulfillment of the obligations to the autonomous community by telling you that you have failed to do this, fulfill it, but it is that you in principle, according to what you have announced to us, are not requiring anything, but are asking only. Therefore, let's see what the Government is responding to and let's see later if you make the request, but I ask you not to apply Article 155 and ask it because I think it would complicate the solutions and complicate the dialogue. And although today it may seem impossible for us to have a dialogue and to reach a solution, I want to think that there are still possibilities. Because, Mr President, too many times the possibilities for political action have been missed and the time has come. That is why it is a good thing to buy time, but you must take advantage of it, talk to the government, but talk to the government directly, without conditions, without any limit and without any limit, already speak and seek a solution that connects legality and legitimacy because the objective, Mr President, must not be to impose the law, but to get the citizens, and in this case the Catalan citizens, to agree with it. I think it is possible, I think a door to dialogue has been opened and I think you too would like that to be so. Let's see if it is possible, but - I insist - first, do not apply 155 because it would cloud the whole situation and, second, do not close the door to dialogue, open it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I must start my speech by denouncing the police violence of 1 October. What was lived in Catalonia on that day was unnecessary, free, unacceptable in a democratic state and improper in a country of the European Union; what happened will mark several generations of Catalans and will have their own names in spaces that will form part of our collective memory as a society: Sant Julià de Ramis, Sant Carles de la Ràpita, Soses, the city of Lleida, the city of Barcelona, the city of Girona, Dosrius, in the Maresme. It took place, ladies and gentlemen, against the schools where President Puigdemot, President Mas, President Forcadell, Vice President Junqueras, Mayor Xavier Trias, were to vote at the school of the daughters of the President of the Generalitat. He intended to punish and humiliate, ladies and gentlemen, and that was a shame. It is essential that political responsibilities be assumed, it is essential that the Minister of the Interior resign, it is essential that a committee of inquiry be opened and it is essential that someone asks for forgiveness. How could it have happened in Catalonia on 1 October and that neither you nor the minister nor the monarch today apologized to the hundreds of Catalans beaten by the police on that day simply for exercising their right to vote? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you that the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights have denounced police violence and called for investigations, but, ladies and gentlemen, despite that, there was a referendum; in spite of that, there was a referendum, and today the world knows that Catalonia has won the right to have its own State. [[Show photocopies]] Yesterday, the President of the Generalitat, on a historic day in the Parliament of Catalonia, made an act of tremendous generosity and political height. He took a step in the direction of carrying out the democratic mandate of 1 October, as it could not otherwise be, but also announced the suspension of any statement and kept open the door of dialogue and mediation, expressing the need to expand the environment and begin the path of dialogue. He did not defraud, he addressed everyone; he also addressed you, the President of the Government, in that generous offer, he addressed the whole of Spanish society expressing the will to get back to us. Mr Rajoy, take this opportunity that President Puigdemont offered you yesterday, perhaps this is the last chance we all have to reach a good solution for all. Today, at the end of your speech, you spoke of dialogue in an apocalyptic tone in your first phase, without any concession, without any self-criticism, without assuming any responsibility for what has happened in recent years. And I say to him the same thing that President Puigdemont said to him: open to dialogue, but without limits. You tell us: you can't impose our proposals on us, and we tell you: you can't stop us from defending our proposals, which are none other than giving way to the October 1 mandate, recognizing that Catalonia is a political subject, accepting that we are the Catalans who have the right to decide our future. Because, Mr Rajoy, that is the discussion, and you said it: it is not a discussion about competences, it is not a discussion about the application of a law, it is not a discussion about autonomous financing; it is a discussion about whether Catalonia is recognized as a political subject, it is the Catalan national question that has been raised, and the only possible and necessary dialogue must be on the substance of that problem. The rest is cheating on us. Mr President, the international community is asking you for a dialogue on this and Catalan civil society and Spanish civil society are asking you for a dialogue on this, on the national question, which is what Catalonia raises. Mr Rajoy, I ask you to banish any hint of incendiary speech, even from your ranks, which has occurred by your colleague Mr Casado, and to condemn the actions of the extreme right against the citizens. [[Applauds]] The extreme right is re-emerging and the Government is not acting. Mr Rajoy, we need to create a different political climate, a political climate that allows politics to be the instrument of conflict resolution. This is due, Mr President, to the withdrawal of the National Police and the Civil Guard in Catalonia, to restore control of the finances of the Generalitat and to repeal the decree that invites companies to leave Catalonia. Mr Rajoy, the application of article 155 and 116 of the Constitution would be a capital error. Abandon any claim to resolve the Catalan question with the use of force. It is not democratic, it is not European, it is not civilized. The democratic, the European and the civilized is to dialogue and agree, as Mr Puigdemont invited him yesterday. Catalonia will resist, it has done so at other times in history. We're a nation, we're a nation. We have decided and we want to decide. I hope you'll listen to us once and for all. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, you will allow me to begin by saying that there is life beyond Catalonia and that sometimes there are trees and forests that prevent you from seeing other trees and forests. I'll tell him. You mentioned that there has been intimidation, insults and aggression in Catalonia. On Sunday in Valencia there was intimidation, assaults, insults and not a single I.D. or a single detainee. There is a news that may also go unnoticed this week with all this news alluded to from Catalonia, and it is that the prosecutor asks the condemnation of the People's Party. Let us not forget: the prosecutor believes that the People's Party was financed. It's news that sometimes they bury and it's good to remember. If you were honest, you'd ask yourself: How did we get here? How much guilt do I have for getting here? If you were honest with yourself, I would recognize that you have a lot of guilt, for your actions and for your omissions. His actions did not begin in 2012, they began long before, and his omissions in the absolute majority have taken us here. So, much of the blame is on you. And now what? A gesture had been asked, there had been a request for no irreversible reactions; from Europe the President of the European Council had asked Mr Puigdemont to do so. Well, there has been no unilateral declaration of independence, it was seen yesterday on the faces of the UPC, it was seen yesterday on the faces of a lot of people who were at the door of Parliament, say the European reference newspapers, says the Ibex or the market for futures, which have risen. Therefore, there was no unilateral declaration of independence. If there has not been, an opportunity is opened, a space is opened, a space to listen, to dialogue, to consensus, to - allow me this word - seduce, to persuade, to enchant. There are many marriages that live together all their lives because they want to, but they certainly practice all these verbs, sure they find a point of balance in all these verbs. What doesn't work, what never works, Mr. Rajoy, I mean, you're mine, only mine. That never works. The President of the European Council, Mr Donald Tusk, yesterday asked him to seek a solution without resorting to force - without resorting to force - and also to appeal to dialogue when he spoke about the strength of the arguments. It has to open a dialogue to solve the Catalan problem, but not only the Catalan problem, because there are not only Basque potatoes, Basque potatoes, or Catalan potatoes; there are Valencian potatoes, bats, from the Balearic Islands, there are many potatoes here... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u170	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u171	And you have to find a territorial solution for all those potatoes. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Let's see what we say, eh?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u172	One second, Your Honor. Keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u173	You have to find a solution for those potatoes, for our financing system, which has not been solved for years. I'm done. There is a campaign in my land to support the use of Valencian, our co-official language, and it is a campaign that I like very much. He says, "I'll build a thousand bridges a thousand times, just to be with you." I'll build a thousand bridges a thousand times, just to be with you. Mr Rajoy, do not pay attention to the war language - I finish, I have two sentences left, Madam President - do not pay attention to the war language we have heard here, do not pay attention to some incendiary speeches. Mr. Rajoy, build a thousand bridges whenever it takes. It is the only way that this problem can be solved in a peaceful and everyone's way. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u174	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u175	Mr Rajoy, you can continue to do that you do not see what is happening, denying that there has been a referendum, that the performance of October 1 by the Police and the Civil Guard was disproportionate and disproportionate, even that a large majority of the Catalan population asks to be subject to decision and therefore to decide their future. He can keep doing it, but reality is clumsy and it's not going to disappear. Listening to you and your ministers, dialogue is synonymous with denial and imposition for you. They cling to the 78 regime, which was no more, let us make it clear, that the closure with impunity of fascism and the acceptance for it of the denial of the right to decide of Catalans and Basques, and they try to sell it as a solution when it is the origin of the problem and of the Catalan process. After listening to you today, I ask you a question, Mr. Rajoy. Was Francoism democratic for you? Because there were laws. For me, that's why I wasn't democratic, maybe for you. He'll make it clear to me. And in the face of the Government's outstretched hand, you reject it and prepare to take further steps in police and judicial code rather than in political and democratic code... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u176	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u177	... which is what Europe demands those who advocate for negotiation and brokering as a formula to address what is nothing but a question of fundamental rights, that is, a political question. Catalan citizenship has spoken clearly on 1 October, despite all the obstacles it has done, and now it is up to us to open a path of dialogue to implement the existing social demand, so that Catalonia becomes an independent state in the form of a republic. You will have the support of the majority of this House in your policies, but, like you, you have the unity of Spain as your ultimate goal, and in Catalonia and in Euskal Herria you have less and less support. You will be able to use force to try to impose, you have us accustomed to it, but you know that Catalonia has already disconnected, that it is making its way, that you will continue to count on our support, and that you, meanwhile, will neither convince nor conquer. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u179	Madam President, thank you very much. Let Euskal Herria Bildu speak of the use of force is truly unheard of, honourable Members. Mr Rajoy, three thoughts. You have the support of the Navarro People's Union in the decisions you have to make regarding the conflict with Catalonia, because the Navarro People's Union has always been with stability, has always been with the legal system and has always been with the Magna Charter. [[Applauds]] Therefore, we will always be in whatever is the defense of the unity of Spain. Second reflection - and this is a message to the Members of ERC and PDeCat - please tell Mr Puigdemont to resign; if he has any political dignity and some public responsibility, to resign. Because, ladies and gentlemen, schools cannot be used to educate the difference and some media cannot be used as platforms of nationalism. Mr Rajoy, you were told by the Basque Group spokesman that you have been pushed by the media; other political parties, other political forces, use the media. Third reflection. Call for autonomous elections in Catalonia and, from there, ladies and gentlemen of this House, let us recover the spirit of the second transition; let us recover, from serenity and prudence, the dialogue towards unity, from difference but towards unity. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a magnificent opportunity for all the Members in this House, all of us, to redefin politics, to do politics with capitals and not politics, as I have heard here in this House. Let us therefore return to the common sense; let us therefore return to the sense of state, and in that space you will undoubtedly find the Union of the Navarro People. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u181	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, on behalf of the Forum, I would like to reiterate our unequivocal, public and unequivocal support for your Government, the judiciary and the State Security Forces and Bodies in their duty to ensure the defence of freedoms in Catalonia and to comply with and enforce the Constitution and laws as the basis of our rule of law. [[Applauds]] Having said that, Mr Rajoy, and with the greatest desire for collaboration and loyalty with you and your Government, I say to you that naiveties must be stopped. It is enough to go behind the events and to tow the insatiables of the independenceists. Please, let's go ahead, not behind. Let us not lose reason for insufficient communication. Rule of law, yes, but it has to be explained. Better communication is essential to explain, inside and outside Spain, what is happening to us. Spanish diplomacy has to be very active in Europe because we must warn that the very serious problem that the Spanish people are having today is going to have other countries if it is not cut down democratically. This independence is not an exclusive problem of Spain, it can also be of other countries of the European Union. Put diplomacy and communication to explain it. The well-known democratic system of which all Spaniards feel participative and proud is precisely what is intended to break down, dragging the social fracture of the Catalans and their economic desolation, as evidenced by the revealing throes of companies that move away from the uncertainty resulting from the repeated and contumid range of independenceist destinies. The Forum will support in the General Courts all measures that its Government proposes to implement with the support of the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u182	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the other day I saw the image in Sant Boi with five hundred neighbors next to a small street, five hundred each other and in the middle of the Mossos d'Esquadra. All of a sudden, he puts on your chicken skin and you say, "Where have we come from?" Forty years of cohabitation have come down and today is not the day to say why we have come here, but we are here. And as we are here, the Canary Coalition and the canarian nationalists will be with the constitutionalist, democratic forces and always in the rule of law and within the framework of the Constitution. But we have hatred, as they said, between family and friends. I am impressed to go through Tenerife, the Canary Islands, and that there are people who want to enter the Acorazada Brunete in the Plaza de Catalunya and that there are people who say that this is enough and that they will leave if they want to leave. In the end it is becoming a feeling and passions and hatreds are rekindling, and this cannot be. I remain with what the President said this morning: we have to restore the rule of law but we have to regain coexistence. In this sense, the words of Pedro Sánchez, secretary general of the PSOE, go, that this is not resolved only with justice and that we have to work within the framework where we represent all citizens. Because Catalonia is neither the two million independenceists - if there are them - nor the million that was manifested the other day; Catalonia is seven and a half million Catalans and here, where the Constitution was made, we have the opportunity to update and recover that capacity of the Constitution to accept all identities again. And there we will be the Canary nationalists because this reform of the Constitution is also important for the recognition of the peculiarities of the Canary Islands. There's a canary singer named Braulio who has a wonderful song called Canaries Song, which says: I'm afraid that my Earth will one day shake the volcano. / If you fuck passions / God knows what's going to happen. / Let us build the hope / that one day all and in peace, / let us move side by side / towards our identity. May that 21st century identity and Constitution welcome us all and remove the hatred of this country, of friends, of neighbours and of peoples such as Sant Boi. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u185	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Too bad, only two minutes, but that's all there is. New Canarias has experienced with increasing concern the unrest that has been growing in Catalan society since at least 2010 until 1 October, we believe that without sufficient democratic guarantees but with a mobilization that has a high political value that needs to be recognized. It is also necessary to recognize the tremendous mistakes that gave rise to certain events that day and that many of us reminded times that we would rather not have remembered. Moreover, since 1 October, disappointment has gained weight in a large part of Catalan society and even fear of the future and, fortunately, there have been some movements of hope and rationality. In that connection, we have some hope that yesterday we have heard Mr Puigdemont take a step back and, consequently, give the dialogue a chance, so we wanted to interpret what was said yesterday. To the same extent, Mr Rajoy, we hold certain hopes after seeing that you have not succumbed to certain particularly aggressive and hard-to-use chants of Article 155, which means what it means, because Article 155 gives, as I know you know better than I do, for much more than that. Today, too, we have heard of what really seems to us to be the root of the problem. It was in our electoral program, so we agreed at the time; we believe that there is only one path that has a light at the end and it is the reform of the Spanish Constitution. We know that for many comrades it may seem late, but there is no other way than that, to address, among others, Title VIII, the territorial structure of the State. We discuss and adapt the Constitution to what is really the Spanish state of the twenty-first century. We trust that this hope that has been illuminated today will truly have continuity and serve to illuminate the future. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u186	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u187	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Spain faces one of the greatest political challenges in its recent history. Since the failed coup d'état of 23F, we have not experienced a coup to democracy as with which we now want to break our unity and coexistence. The representatives of the Generalitat de Catalunya intend to liquidate by blackmail, and now in delay, the Constitution of all and for all that has given us the best forty years of our history in terms of freedom, democracy, stability and growth. In early September, the President of the Catalan Parliament, Carmen Forcadell, broke the agreement of the entire Catalan people by forcing the adoption of the referendum law and the law of disconnection, two laws declared unconstitutional and therefore do not exist. To this end, he violated the Rules of Procedure of the House, curtailed the rights of deputies by preventing them from expressing their ideas and coerced officials to fail to comply with the law. This coup to the Constitution and the Statute of Catalonia led yesterday afternoon to a unilateral declaration of independence with delayed effects. The farce continues to maintain tension and uncertainty in Catalonia, another mockery of the President of the Generalitat, Mr Puigdemont, to the rule of law that only serves to continue to do evil to Catalonia. On 1 October, moreover, the Generalitat's attempt to simulate the existence of a referendum failed. What happened, simply, was a bust. Because, as the Central Electoral Board itself strongly stated, no trial took place in Catalonia that day that could be considered that, nor by the person who summoned him, incompetent to do so, nor by the way in which he did it, violating the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, nor by the object, which is unconstitutional, nor by the lack of guarantees with which it developed. The results are therefore worthless, and in no case can they be used as an argument at all. That is for the simple reason that there were no polling stations or constituted tables, because opaque plastic cubes were used as urns that in some cases even arrived full of ballot papers at the tables. There was no real census, we were allowed to vote as many times as we wanted, and we saw people filling ballot boxes at traffic lights, on the street, and even children throwing ballot papers at a handful. In seventy-five municipalities there were more voters than inhabitants and the spurt was such that in the end the sum of the yeses, noes, whites and nulls resulted in more than one hundred per cent: 100,8 %. Yesterday, ten days later, Mr Puigdemont presented the result written earlier by Mr Turull and Mr Romeva. What democracy is that, Mr Esteban? Organic democracy. I'm sorry that you give credibility to results like these. In short, ladies and gentlemen, an electoral fraud that will remain for the history and shame of independence in Catalonia. But I must point out that in this mockery of democracy we sought to build an epic story full of lies and with a victimistic tone that was clearly false, as false as many of the images that were responsible for propagating about the actions of the Civil Guard and the National Police from the first hour of the morning, who simply did what they did to comply with judicial decisions, and had to do it alone in a situation of enormous complexity, because, as we then knew, the head of the mossos, in charge of enforcing the laws at that time, was plotting against his own justice. False were also many of the images of wounded, such as those of Marta Torrecillas, councillor of your party, Mr Tardà, who said that he had broken his fingers one by one and after a while appeared with the wrong hand blindfolded, as false are the accusations that you made today against the deputy of my parliamentary group Mr Casado. [[Applauds]] We even had to hear the very serious allegations of Mrs. Colau, Mr. Domènech, who falsely blamed the National Police - textual - for sexual assault. I therefore hope that the Mayor of Barcelona will apologize to the State Security Forces and the women victims of sexual assault who are suffering them and withdraw their words. [[Applauds]] I take this opportunity to thank you again for the work of the State Security Forces and Corpses. We are very proud of the Civil Guard and the National Police. They are the guarantors of our freedoms and rights and we will not allow anyone to disrespect you, Mr Campuzano. But some separatists have not only harassed, pointed out and stigmatized the National Police or the Civil Guard, including judges, prosecutors, mayors, councillors, journalists, Catalan parliamentarians who continue to defend legality and, in addition, millions of Catalans who decided not to participate in this fight despite calls to their homes to insult them for not wanting to participate in this pantomime. They are the true heroes of these days that we have lived in Catalonia and their strength is the hope of democracy. It must be said loud and clear: here the only responsible for the sad days that we are living in Catalonia and the rest of Spain are the coupsmen who attack the unity of the nation and divide and deceive Catalan society. They will respond to history and they will also respond to justice, because that is what happens in a democratic state of law; a state where there is - I would like to remind you - a separation of powers. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the policies of hatred, exclusion and intolerance promoted by the Generalitat and the independenceists that have fractured and confronted all Catalans. His excessive ambition for power has broken society. We have seen astonishments how secessionist machinery indoctrinates and manipulates children in schools or punishes them for ideological reasons; how it offends our constitutional symbols, the flag of Spain, and even despises the senyera; how it uses public television and radio as tools to promote independence, stigmatizing the dissenting; how it breaks relations in Catalonia between friends, brothers and entire families. This is the society that leaves totalitarian independence. The Generalitat has humiliated the majority of Catalans by adding to the Catalan people and all their representation - as they have done here today also some political formations - insulting those who did not share their imposture. But I remind many of you that here too, apart from your political formations, there are Catalan Members in the People's Party, in the Socialist Party and also in Citizens. [[Applauds]] The imposture, ladies and gentlemen, has reached such an extreme that even the President of Parliament, who leads harassment of the courts, has been allowed to say that those who do not vote for what she likes are not Catalans. What a shame, ladies and gentlemen! Well, we will not allow anyone in Catalonia to suffer what Stefan Zweig denounced years ago when, fleeing his country for persecution, he said: So now I am a being from nowhere, alien in all; host at best. I have also lost my own country, the one that had chosen my heart, Europe. That is why all Catalans today are told stronger than ever that they are not alone, that we are together in the struggle for freedom and democracy. This is how we saw it in the mass concentration of much of the silent majority that last Sunday demonstrated without any subsidy - without any subsidy - that the Catalan people are not the property of independence nationalism, as we have been wanted to believe for a long time. One million people changed the silence for a cry for unity in Spain, for tolerance, for coexistence, for harmony, for the rule of law and for the recovery of the seny in Catalonia. It was one of the most important and exciting civic manifestations we have experienced in our recent history. A new spirit of Ermua traveled with the same strength the streets of the Catalan capital: the spirit of October 8. Barcelona taught Mr Puigdemont what the real Catalonia is: a diverse, united, plural and peaceful Catalonia where Catalan, Spanish and European flags coexist; Catalonia which is committed to coexistence and integration and not to rupture, confrontation or exclusion. That Catalonia silenced so many times, humiliated and despised by some went out into the street and filled our hearts with hope. Many Catalans regained confidence in themselves and gave a lesson to Catalonia, Spain, Europe and the world of what we are: a great nation and I am very proud to have also been there with them. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Spain has been ensuring compliance with the rule of law and has an obligation to implement all the constitutional mechanisms available to protect the unity of the nation, in addition to everything in its time. Our rules of law must be protected and citizens' rights must be protected so that we all remain free and equal. We defend respect for the law as the basic foundation of any democratic system. It is simple: without law there is no democracy and without democracy we would not have guaranteed our freedom and that is precisely what distinguishes civilization from barbarism, the rule of law and the separation of powers. Today I would like to thank the message of the Head of State, King Philip VI, of commitment to the Constitution, democracy and the unity and permanence of Spain. A message similar to that made by his father thirty-six years ago, appealing to the democratic coexistence achieved in Spain that is only possible if the laws are served by citizens and institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no possible mediation between those who violate and despise the laws and those who defend them; between those who intend to tear Spain apart - as Azaña would say - and those who protect their unity and advocate for the national sovereignty of the Spanish people. That national sovereignty that resides right here, in the Courts. And the unity of the Democrats today constitutes the weakness of the independenceists. That is why it is time to be united in defense of our Constitution. That is why I would also like to thank the constitutionalist forces for defending the rule of law. The Spanish admiral Blas de Lezo said that a nation is not lost because some attack it but because those who love it do not defend it. The axes of the Government and of my group have been very clear all this time: dialogue always within the law, never forgetting that in a rule of law one cannot dialogue with those who do not respect the law. The sedition is not fought with dialogue or cheating negotiations because politics is not trapping, nor opportunism. Just beginning this legislature, this government began what some media called the dialogue operation; however, others only intended to impose their plans. They did not want to have a dialogue with the government, they did not want to have a dialogue in the Senate, they did not want to come here to Congress to have a dialogue with all of us. And while the Catalonian Generalitat has spent taxpayers' money on all kinds of independent propaganda, the Spanish Government has met the needs of Catalans by allocating more than €69 billion from the Autonomous Liquidity Fund to finance public services and pay for suppliers. That's also dialogue. The problem is that for Mr Puigdemont to engage in dialogue is to impose and one cannot engage in dialogue by starting with blackmail as a premise. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has the support of the entire international community, the European Union and our partners. And that is because not only the future of Spain is in danger but also the future of Europe. Secessionists are becoming more and more alone, even large companies and Catalan banks have begun their march from Catalonia in search of legal certainty. And they don't leave because they want to, they leave because they've been thrown out. We cannot allow the secessionist process, therefore, to put and continue to put into check the economic recovery of our country that has cost us so much effort to the Spaniards or to impoverish the thriving Catalan society and the Catalan industrial fabric. We do not want any company to leave Catalonia, we want Catalonia to remain the engine of the Spanish and European economy. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. Spain is a great country and we must be proud. We are a modern nation with more than 500 years of history. We are among the great economic powers and our voice is heard and respected outside our borders. We have been able to consolidate a welfare state that few enjoy in the world, lead world tourism and have an admired historical and cultural heritage. We are recognized for our solidarity, we have one of the most plural, diverse and tolerant societies in Europe. For this reason, we defend Spain from the Constitution, one of the most modern in the world. This Spain that speaks Catalan as well as Spanish, Galician, or Basque; the Spain that waves without complexes the Spanish flag next to that of its autonomous community or its locality; that of 47 million, 6 of which have not been born here. We defend Spain from all and for all. If this crisis should serve anything, let it be to unite more; as Stefan Zweig also said: let us admire each other. The People's Group will always defend these principles and values with the aim of overcoming this economic crisis and this social crisis. A Catalonia with the Olympic spirit of Barcelona 92, Europeanist, open to the world, tolerant, entrepreneurial, innovative, bright future is what we want; a Catalonia convinced that the future is to create and not to erase, to build and not to destroy, in the sum and not in the rest, and that the unity of Spain is the only way to prosperity because together we are better. And as Cambó would say, Mr Campuzano, the great Catalonia and the great Spain. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u188	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my first reply by trying to make reference to what is most important to me today and what I believe can open up solutions for the future. Firstly, it is very important that Mr Puigdemont agrees with the response to the request made to him this morning by the Spanish Government. It's enough just for me to say what we've heard you say here to Mr. Aitor Esteban. Mr Aitor Esteban said that Mr Puigdemont did not declare independence yesterday. There are other people who see things differently. That is why it would be very important for Mr Puigdemont to clarify to all the Spaniards whether he declared independence yesterday or whether, on the contrary, he did not. [[Applauds]] It is that easy and very well understood, because, as all the honourable Members of this House will understand, it is not the same as someone, in this case the president of an autonomous government, the president of the Generalitat, declares independence, in which case the government has to act in a way, or does not declare independence, in which case we are faced with a different situation. It is therefore very important that Mr Puigdemont is right. Ladies and gentlemen who spoke about what happened yesterday in the Parliament of Catalonia, there is no one here, no one, who can think that what happened yesterday in the Parliament of Catalonia - including its end, with a signature of seventy-two Members of Parliament of a text that I recommend to everyone here who has not read it - can say that what happened yesterday in the Parliament of Catalonia was something normal, reasonable and proper to a democratic country. I do not know whether what happened happened, as Mr Tardà said in his speech; the fact is that what happened was absolutely regrettable, because we cannot steal the citizens of Catalonia, and the Spanish citizens as a whole, the clarity to say whether it affects the unity of the nation or not. [[Applauds]] And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking for something as reasonable as what I am saying here today. I insist, it is very difficult to tell the Government of Spain not to ask or require the President of the Generalitat on a subject of the importance of which we are living. Mr Esteban said he did not declare independence; I welcome it, but Mr Puigdemont has to say, which has nothing to do with the importance that Mr Esteban's word may have. This is the first important issue for the future. The second issue is that of dialogue. I've never refused to engage in dialogue. A specific proposal has been made here and we are prepared to open up and participate actively, as the Socialist Group has asked us, in the Commission on the development and modernisation of the autonomous state. We are prepared for that committee to start working now and we do not refuse to talk about a reform of the Constitution - we have never refused - but what we cannot give up is to defend what we think and give our opinion on what we want to be our country, I suppose just like you and anyone who sits in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, without prejudice to other issues that have been raised here, I believe that these are the two issues on which we must place the emphasis and which we must pay attention to in the future if we are to build, as I think is our duty, something positive. The agreement adopted today by the Council of Ministers, in case any person had doubts, consists in the following: to request the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia, in his capacity as the highest representative of the Generalitat and as the ordinary representative of the State in Catalonia, to confirm whether any authority of the Generalitat has declared the independence of Catalonia or whether his statement on 10 October 2017 before the plenary of Parliament implies the declaration of independence, regardless of whether it is in force or not. It is an easy-to-answer question; I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a question of forced response, because Catalans have the right to know whether, as Mr Esteban says, independence has not been declared or whether, as others say, independence has been declared, but its effects will not yet begin. I think it is a democratic obligation and I think it is very reasonable for this whole House to make that request to Mr Puigdemont. Secondly, if the answer is yes or no answer, Mr Puigdemont will be required to order the revocation of that declaration of independence. The first has to be answered within a time limit that ends next Monday at 10 a.m. and for the second - which I hope will not happen - it has to be completed by Thursday of the following week at 10 a.m. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of other considerations in which it is more difficult for us to agree, it would be important for us all to make an effort to ensure that Mr Puigdemont met the first request and to build in that committee to which I have just referred. From there, I would like to make some comments on the different interventions that have taken place. I agree with the Socialist Party and its spokesman, Mrs Robles, in the defence of legality, the Constitution, the rule of law, the existence of a stable framework and the claim of the 1978 Constitution. Under the Constitution of 1978 we live the best stage in the history of Spain, but in terms of everything: freedom, democracy, human rights, external presence - we enter Europe -, well-being, basic public services, care for people... It was undoubtedly the best and most productive stage in Spain's history. I share his diagnosis of what has happened in Catalonia - it is very difficult that he does not share it -: the law of transitionality, the law of the referendum, the decree of convening of the referendum, what has happened on the 6th and 7th of last September that, without a doubt, were two very black days in the history of Spanish democracy so it meant the liquidation of the rights of the deputies of the opposition and the waiver of parliamentary procedures, the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, etc. I appreciate your loyalty to Spain, your party's support in these difficult times and, of course, I agree, as I have pointed out before, in the dialogue, but the dialogue within the law and within the Constitution that we have all given ourselves. Mr Iglesias and other representatives of your parliamentary group. You said that here there is a problem that is not public order or legal, that is a political problem. I may agree, but allow me to make some considerations about the law. The law is the rules of coexistence that we all give ourselves, without the law we would be in the jungle. The law guarantees our rights, those of the strong and those of the weak. If we suppress the law, if we pass over it, we will be in the law of the strongest. The law guarantees the safety of citizens, the law gives stability; we are all subject to the rule of law; the law obliges us all, even those who call for referendums, because if we start to make exceptions to the law, the next question will be who decides which laws to comply with and which laws to comply with, and with what moral authority we could force someone to comply with the law. That is why I say - you did not like it but I reaffirm it here - that without law there is no democracy; there is no democracy, Mr. Churches. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: Yes, sir!-Applause]] Your Honor, you've done - not the first time you've done it, always in a confusing way - some considerations about the referendum. I really do not know - I do not know, it is probably an important mistake on my part - what has been the evolution of the Spanish left in this matter of nationalisms, referendum and territorial integrity, and I will recall something that was already said in this House by a member of my Government, listen: Can we accept a right of self-determination that means perpetual blackmail on the territorial identity of Spain and on the stability of its institutional system? Does it make sense from a left-wing perspective - for me from a left-wing perspective makes no sense - to understand the right of self-determination as the possibility that each autonomous community can propose periodically, whatever the requirements of quorum and so on, its desire to separate itself from Spain? Is it possible for a democratic State to survive with this constant prospect of disintegration, with this constant pressure on its institutional stability? This was said by Jordi Solé Tura, a man who is much closer to his ideological approaches - to his own - than to mine. But this is what we all thought had always defended the left until now we see with amazement that the left - and the more extremist it seems that with more enthusiasm - defends exactly the opposite that they have always defended. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, because this is the case, because Mr.Solé Tura's questions are very well-formed, there is no Constitution in the world that recognizes the right of self-determination, it is that there is no Constitution written in the world that recognizes the right of self-determination and it is logical. In its day it was recognized by the Soviet Union, the former Yugoslavia or Ethiopia, but that is already history of the past, history in which we do not need to enter now because I believe that recognition qualifies itself. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe - it is also important that we talk about Europe - is a project that was formally born in 1957, before it had its history as a Community of Coal and Steel, but it is an institution, Europe, which has been created on the basis of values and principles, the most important are democracy, respect for the law, respect for the rule of law, inclusion, territorial unity, integration, and Europe I believe that it has not gone wrong, neither to Europeans nor to Spanishs, throughout their history. This operation has been supported by Mr Farage - I do not want us to be like Mr Farage - Mr Wilders and all the Members - not all of them - of the extreme right and the extreme left of the European Parliament, and Mr Maduro. I don't want those fellow travellers to Spain and you shouldn't have them either, Mr. Iglesias. [[Applauds]] I'm glad you're complimenting Adolfo Suárez. I cannot speak on behalf of Adolfo Suarez or interpret, as you have done, Adolfo Suarez, but I can ask: Does anyone in this House believe that Mr Suarez would have been in favour of the right of self-determination? Does anyone in this House believe that Mr. Suárez would have supported passing the law? Does anyone in this House believe that Mr Suárez would have agreed on something with someone who intends to liquidate the rule of law? Your Honor, you have spoken about Spain and I know the autonomous state, I have lived it and I have been in political life for a few years, I have even been vice president of the Xunta de Galicia and I also know the origin and why of the autonomous state, which was the 1978 Constitution, which is something that we should all take very much into account. The 1978 Constitution which, as has been said here, was something very difficult to build - think that there were people coming from exile there and there were other people who had been in Franco's governments - was the result, logical and reasonable, of the effort of many Spaniards to whom we all owe thanks for what they did. There were agreed rules of play and rules of coexistence and it is advisable not to break them. There were gatherings of people who were supporters of a State without autonomous communities and gatherings of people with radically different approaches and what was achieved, and then the Spanish people endorsed, went to an intermediate solution that did not content everyone in its entirety, but that at least served them to live with a majority of Spaniards. That's what was agreed in 1978 and today Spain is the most decentralized country in the world. The government I chair spends 20% of the total Spanish public expenditure scarce if we exclude pensions. Today there is a level of self-government in Spain as never before in the history of Spain. Let someone explain to me a moment when there was a higher level of self-government than there is at the moment in Spain. And, of course, if we play to break the rules of the game and also unilaterally, as has happened now, it seems to me that we have a very important problem as a country. Ladies and gentlemen, you have made reference to dialogue - Mrs Díaz has made reference in her speech too - and I am in favour of dialogue and I have always been in favour of all sorts of dialogues - I have said this in my first speech, we are going to participate in a committee, others are not going to do it and we are going to try to build because I think it is most important - but there are dialogues that are not possible. I can't dialogue to see how I agree with someone that we jointly skip the law or the Spanish Constitution itself. I cannot dialogue when the dialogue consists of a referendum yes or a referendum yes. I have heard that in private many times, but we have all heard it in this House. That is not a democratic attitude, that is the attempt to impose its own will over and above the will of others. The problem that we have, and to the best of honor, is that we have an obligation to act with the law, while others skip the law as we have seen it happening in a really dramatic way in the last few days in the Parliament of Catalonia. Therefore, talking about dialogue and talking about rights after some of the actions we have seen is certainly on the part of some something that should not happen. Mr Tardà, the exaggerated - I say it to you with all appreciation - becomes irrelevant, and you should realize this, you and your fellow banker. How can you talk about the authoritarian way of government or that we are in the 20th century? Mr. Tardà, I'm going to tell you a story that hasn't happened - so it'll be story if it ever does - but it's a story that could happen. Suppose you're at home on Tuesday night and you're a Member of the National Parliament. You see the agenda, there is debate on various matters, you share it with your colleagues, and the next day you wake up quietly and you arrive here, and then you find that there is a law that had not been qualified by the Bureau, and you find that the Bureau qualifies you in a quarter of an hour, and then you find that by majority you change the agenda to introduce that bill, and then you find that you are not allowed to amend, and then you find that there is practically no debate, and then you find that you are approved of the law. And then you come home at night and being with your family, how do you explain this to your family? The next day you have to come back to the same House, here, and then a law that had not been qualified is qualified in a quarter of an hour, and then also by majority is placed on the agenda, and then you are not allowed to amend. Listen, what if those laws are and involve the liquidation of the Spanish Constitution, of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and the replacement by a parallel legality - which is a constitution, the Law of Transition, which we will see later on in what it ends -, what would you think, Mr Tardà? Would you do something? Would you say that's authoritarian or not? Would you say that's 21st century or not? You can go up to this rostrum - and you have the right to reply - to explain this, because I believe that all the honourable Members will be interested in what happened on the 6th, what happened on the 7th and what happened on the 1st of October. Do you think the October 1 show is typical of a 21st-century country? I guess not. Do you think it's normal what happened yesterday? Please! Do you think it's normal? Do you think it's reasonable and sensible all we could see on television yesterday? Your Honor, don't talk about suffering or at least talk about everyone's, because I know a lot of scared, scared and harassed people, but I haven't heard of you, Mr. Tardà. [[Applauds]] Mr Tardà, you are asking for dialogue, but you have already said that you are not going to participate in the Commission on the evaluation of the Spanish territorial model and its modernisation. He has already said so; in the same way that they said, and did, that they were not going to participate in the Conference of Presidents, in the same way that they have refused to speak and participate in the debate on autonomous financing and have not been in the working groups. You have decided not to dialogue or to speak; you want to impose, which is what you did on days 6 and 7, on day 1 and yesterday. Imposing, Mr. Tardà. I cannot accept any lesson from you either on dialogue or on democracy while you and your party do not act accordingly. [[Applauds]] Mr Esteban, without a doubt always - as you have commented in your speech - we must go to the facts. But the facts are those of day 6, which I have just told here; those of the 7, which I have also recalled; what happened when, against the slightest common sense, knowing that it would only serve to generate problems and fire more firewood, is the referendum; and the facts are those that happened yesterday in the Parliament of Catalonia. You defend the referendum, you talk about the law, but I just pointed it out to you and I have to reiterate it. Referendums can be called by jumping the law to the bullfighter: we can't say that, we shouldn't even think about it, because there are our rules of coexistence, there are the rules of the game, there are the rights of everyone. That is a basic principle of any democracy, it is a fundamental value of the European Union. He talked about police violence. I repeat it here again: I have to defend the actions of the State Security Forces and Corpses in a situation that is certainly dramatic and very difficult; now, I will tell you one thing: when the law is violated, then everything else comes; when the law is violated, the economic consequences come, the companies leave, there is division among the people, harassment of honest citizens that the only thing they have done is think differently from those who harass. That is why it is so important that we are able to defend and affirm the rule of law here. I insist, what is not legal is not democratic. It has raised a problem of majorities, minorities, of how many we are, how many we are others, of feelings. I just want to say one thing constructively. We all have feelings: you may have some, but others may have others. The vast majority of Spaniards have a feeling for their country, which is part of Catalonia and which is part of Murcia, which has been cited here, or potatoes. Someone's been talking about potatoes. I don't know if it was Mr. Tardà, but someone talked about... [[A Member of Parliament: Baldoví!]] Baldoví talked about potatoes. [[Laughter]] He talked about all the potatoes: the Catalans, the Valencians, the Murcians... He didn't talk about the canary potatoes or the Galicians, but the most important problem, Mr Baldoví, is that he didn't talk about the Spanish potatoes, and there are a lot of people who want to talk to him about the Spanish potatoes. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] On the other hand, I agree with Mr Esteban's speech. Obviously we have to find a way out of this. I have tried in the first part of my second speech today to emphasize the two issues that I think are most important, and I believe that we can all work on the next dates. I cannot accept Mr Campuzano's assertions regarding the actions of the State Security Forces and Corpses, in the same way that I cannot accept that there has been a referendum. I can't accept that, Mr. Campuzano. If one thing is as true as the other, it seems to me that you have a problem with making statements that may have a majority endorsement. I do not agree with Mr Puigdemont's tremendous generosity. I believe that what you have done, and which culminated in the signature of seventy-two Members of Parliament of something absolutely absurd - as I think a large majority of those who have signed shares - is nowhere to be found. Qualifying Mr Puigdemont's performance yesterday of tremendous generosity is false. I am just going to say that I would like to have a minimum of generosity - I do not want it to have a tremendous generosity - because if it had a minimum of generosity I am sure that it would respond to the government's request, and then open up avenues for the future. [[Applauds]] Mr Puigdemont has the opportunity to build, and you - forgive me for quoting you - all those who make up your parliamentary group have a magnificent opportunity to help build. The responsibility in this case is also yours, and a lot. I agree with the considerations made by Mr Baldoví, except for the first two, for two reasons: because it had nothing to do with the matter that brought us together here, the fundamental one, and the second, because I do not know why he is doing the case, nor is it necessary at this time. I am fundamentally in agreement with the dialogue. I will not repeat what I have said on numerous occasions this afternoon. I'm just glad you bet here for the dialogue. I will tell Mrs Beitialarrangoitia that I believe in the 1978 Constitution. I think it has opened a stage in Spain of law, democracy and human rights, and I think it has been very positive for the whole of our country, with some problems that we have experienced, with people who have attacked the human rights of people, but I certainly believe it has been one of the constitutions that has helped Spain most throughout our history. I thank Mr Alli for his support. So is Mr Martínez Oblanca. No doubt we will all have to communicate and explain ourselves better. I am particularly grateful for your support for public officials, in particular the Civil Guard and the National Police. I am pleased that Mrs Oramas has referred to her being with the constitutionalist forces, the rule of law and democracy, and I agree with the two objectives she has set: one, perhaps the most important, to regain coexistence, and the other to affirm that she will be there to build. Mr Quevedo has spoken of hope, which I believe in the times we live in is certainly positive, hope of avoiding greater evils and hope of returning common sense, compliance with the law, the principles and values that have made us great. I have also heard about the reform of the Constitution. I thank the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group for his loyalty, in this case not to the Government of the People's Party, but for his loyalty to Spain, to the Constitution and to the values contained therein. [[Applauds]] Finally, I would like to thank Mr Rivera, and also his support, as in the case of Mr Hernando, not the Government of Spain, but the Spanish Constitution, for those principles and values enshrined in the Constitution of all European countries. We have shared throughout the last diagnostic dates and much of the solutions. He has pointed one out as the last solution. Let's see how events occur over the next few days. But I insist, as I said at the beginning of this intervention and after a few laps, that some I have given to this matter, it is very important that those who have opposed the Constitution, contrary to the fundamentals of the Constitution, correct, that there is nothing going to be rectified either, and perhaps it is not even necessary to rectify, but simply to say what Mr Esteban has explained to us here, and of course also to point out that it will continue within the framework of the Constitution and within the framework of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. [[Laughter]] Thank you so much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u190	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Robles Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u191	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, despite this indigestion of potatoes that we have, I would like to thank you very much, on behalf of the Socialist Party, for joining the proposals made by the Socialist Party; that proposal to participate in the Territorial Model Study Commission, and that proposal to move forward with constitutional reform. I used to say that the Socialist Party, its men and women, have always worked... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u192	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u193	...for freedoms, for rights and for the welfare state. They have always worked to defend dialogue, even in very complicated and difficult situations. Here we have the case of the socialist Ernest Lluch who was murdered precisely for defending dialogue and constitutional values. Socialists believe deeply in those constitutional values, in those constitutional values in which everyone has room, also the Government of the Generalitat and those people who have voted for independence in Catalonia. That seems absolutely essential to us. Mrs Díaz, spokesman for En Marea, I would like to say that it is not a question of the People's Party joining the Constitution. The People's Party cannot take over the Constitution because the Constitution is the work of all the Democrats in this country, of all those who made the transition. [[Applauds]] And because we firmly believe in the Constitution, in its possibilities of a framework of coexistence, in its possibilities of being reformed into a European project, precisely because we believe in those values, we are committed to a reform of the Constitution, whatever it does to bring it up to date in the twenty-first century. Mr Rivera, I have to say that I welcome the reform of the Constitution, because before your party existed for a long time the Socialist Party, deeply constitutionalist, had called for that reform to protect and reform that framework of coexistence that the Constitution entails. And there, in that framework of the Constitution, in that framework of the defence of rights and freedoms will always be the Socialist Party, making a call to all without exception, because we have a framework of coexistence in which we all fit. [[Applauds]] From this committee of studies, Mr Tardà, I invite you to participate if you believe in dialogue, speak; I invite Mr Puigdemont to come here, we will be able to work so that there is no more fracture in Spanish society and Catalan society, of which I, who went to live with eleven years in Catalonia, also feel part. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u194	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, I thank you, first of all, for the tone, and secondly, for two details that seem to me not minor. You have said a phrase 'We are all children of the same sun and taxaries of the same stream'. The chief politician of eldiario.es immediately realized that this phrase is by Manuel Azaña, and pronounced it on July 18, 1938, two years after a coup d'état against the legality of our country took place. He said so in Barcelona, and the focus of Azaña's speech was reconciliation and the search for international mediation. [[Applauds]] I am pleased, Mr Rajoy, that you have quoted a Democrat like Manuel Azaña, who is not from the political tradition you represent. He's honored to have done it. The second detail is also not minor. For the first time I have seen your parliamentary spokesman read a speech in this House. I think it has been prudent to do so and we have had to avoid some parliamentary incident, and we can continue to debate with a good tone. Keep it up, Mr. Rajoy, because maybe we can figure some things out. Considerations about the law, which you have said. He has mentioned something that is true, that there is no democracy without law, it is true, but coming from you, a political formation that has often failed to comply with the law, perhaps they should be more self-critical. Precisely because of non-compliance with the law, his ministers of justice, finance and the former Minister of the Interior were rejected in this House. It is true that the law must be complied with, but not everyone has the same legitimacy to tell the Spaniards that the law must be complied with, because theirs is not a party that has complied with the law. [[Applauds]] Sometimes, Mr President, in democracy the most sensible thing is to change the laws. That's something everyone should understand. When laws do not solve political problems that are threatening Spain as a viable country project, it might be sensible to try to change laws. You have told me about the left, but there is something that is more important to me than my own ideas, and it is my country, and I am very concerned about knowing my country's history. In order for my country to remain united, it is essential not to try to impose the idea of Spain by force, but to seek political solutions. You talked about Mr. Suárez. Mr Suárez is not a saint of my devotion, and it is a known fact that he did not have the intellectual height of the founder of his party, Mr Manuel Fraga, but Mr Suárez had two very important qualities in politics: the guts - which he demonstrated in this House with Mr Gutiérrez Mellado and Mr Santiago Carrillo - because having guts is not so common in politics, and he also had instinct. You asked whether Mr Suárez had accepted a referendum in Catalonia. Of course Mr Suárez would not have done what you did with the statute, creating a problem that we now have to solve politically. [[Applauds]] And if in anything Mr Suárez was skilled he was in creating new legalities, because sometimes it is necessary to create new laws to solve political problems. You spoke of the autonomous state that was agreed in 1978. The problem - and it is clear from what is happening in this Parliament - is that this model has lapsed. The fundamental thing about the Spanish Transition is that there was a pact with Catalonia, and the proof that there was was that it voted in favour of the 1978 Constitution massively in Catalonia. What would happen, Mr President of the Government, if Catalan citizens today had to vote for the 1978 Constitution? What result do you think it would be if we voted if that text satisfied the Catalans? We therefore have a political problem, Mr Esteban told us; the head of state is not a beloved figure either in Catalonia or in Euskadi and is increasingly less loved in Spain as a whole, when he aligns himself with the Government and when he does not have a single word for the victims of the crisis and for the victims of corruption. And that problem has not been invented by us, the political system in this country began to show that it had problems on 15 May 2011, and the proof that this is the case in this Parliament. The territorial constitution of this country has a problem. Would it not be sensible, gentlemen of the People's Party, for us to be able to invent new legalities that collectively allow us to build a new agreement that overcomes the crisis of legitimacy that our political system has? [[Applauds]] Because our political system has a crisis of legitimacy. I'm done. You are wise and intelligent, Mr Rajoy, and I think you should know that Spain, our homeland, will not survive as a collective project if the majority of the Catalan people do not want to be part of that collective people. Spain will not survive if corruption continues to undermine the legitimacy of our institutions. Let us build a new agreement that will only be able to wipe out the institutions and listen to the majority of the Catalan people. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Today we not only have to ask ourselves what Puigdemont is going to answer, but what we are going to do for our country. [[Applauds]] I am deeply concerned, Mr President, that this whole House and an entire country are thinking about what box Puigdemont is going to answer, yes or no, if he declared independence. The Spaniards don't deserve it. This is not a bureaucratic issue, it is not an administrative issue, it is a problem of thirty years of hegemony of nationalism on my land, in Catalonia, imposing an ideology on the majority of the population and trying to destroy our country, and we either approach it as such and we are aware of the dimension of the problem and how difficult it is to democratically defeat nationalism or we are going to think that here it is to see who makes the shortest regatta, who deceives who with the answer and with the question in a letter or in a bureaufax, as we have seen, so I ask the Government, please, to take height and above all awareness of the problem, because this is not to get out of the way, it is not to see whether Puigdemont gains time or not the Government. We are playing Spain, freedom and democracy in Catalonia, Mr President, so I ask you, please - this we will certainly talk about in the next few days - that beyond what Puigdemont answers, let us be aware that Puigdemont neither respects the Constitution nor wants us to remain compatriots nor wants to respect anything. Mr President, it is all a blackmail, a deception, a theatre; those of us who live in Catalonia know them and know that they have been doing it for many years. [[Applauds]] The Catalan society that went out on the street, the king, the European Council, the Spaniards, who have shown solidarity with the Catalan people during these days, the government, all together we have to be aware of the dimension of the problem. I wish you something that might not be easy to say, but this is not solved in a quarter of an hour. The problem created in thirty years in a territory, continuously agreeing and giving in to the Pujol, to Carod-Rovira, to Artur Mas, do not think that with a requirement and a bureaufax we will fix it. That is a requirement to apply article 155 and to call elections, but they do not think that this is the end of the problem. It is not a tactical issue, it is not a regatta, but part of the solution to restore democracy in Catalonia. That is important, Mr President, because I will support you for action, to defend the Constitution, because you have said so, because we defend the Constitution, but my problem and that of many Spaniards is not how Puigdemont answers the letter, in how long and whether it is very clever or very cunning. The problem is that we must have a country project for the next forty years, in order to defeat nationalism politically, ideologically and democratically. If we don't approach it like this, we'll be the same in three or four years. They've been like this a long time. November 9th, what if it wasn't? Another failed referendum, another show and another act outside the law. It was 2014, and it's 2016; it hasn't taken three years. I wish I was wrong, but we'll see it again, so either we take this seriously or this House is aware of what's going on in my land, in Catalonia, or we're aware of how to remake the common Spanish project or we're going to be on the short regatta. And do you know what's going on, Mr. President? That Catalonia can't be suspended. This of suspending a coup rhetorically is very good, but, what do Catalans who are not separatists in the coming months, wait for Puigdemont to seek a world mediator, at a dialogue table outside this House, to continue to point out to the dissenters, to continue to indoctrinate in the schools, to continue to control public television, which looks like the NO-DO public television in Catalonia right now? Is that what we're going to allow or are we going to act? What I propose is that we vote, we want to vote. Make sure Mr. Junqueras doesn't want an election. So much about voting and now they're afraid to do it. Why? We're going to vote for autonomous elections. If they're so wonderful and say they've taken out 91% of the votes, I guess they'll take out 91% of the votes in the autonomics. Or not? Or maybe you don't get 50% or maybe we beat you? [[Applauds]] In order to solve what is happening in Catalonia neither the short race nor the tacticalism nor the bureaucracy will solve it. We must have a high eye and know what we want for the future of Spain, and neither can we be thinking continuously about what those who are outside the law are going to do in this case. We can't put ourselves in the head of a UPC assembly, because they're out of the law. Yesterday the CUP said: our battle is on the street, not in institutions. Of course, they don't care about institutions, they liquidate them. They have liquidated the Parliament of Catalonia, the statute of autonomy, democracy in Catalonia, so let's not get on their playing field and we will act from a democratic framework. We have reason, democracy and institutions, so let us lead, please. Let's not wait for them to do anything. We'll handle it. The Spanish are waiting for their government and for this House to say what we are going to do. Mr. Rajoy, if you want, you have a country behind you. I am sure that most of the Spaniards who are listening to us today are absolutely convinced that we must defend the Constitution and democracy. I don't think I'm right if I say that. Most Spaniards agree and you have the majority support of this House. I understand prudence and share it - I am prudent - but the reckless thing may be not to act. The reckless thing can be to put it in Puigdemont's head. What will Mr Puigdemont think? Neither France nor Germany nor the United States nor any decent and large country, such as Spain, can be thinking what Puigdemont is doing or seeing how the trilero cheats on us with the ball. Since I don't believe in beatings or triplets, but I believe in Democrats and compatriots, I ask the government to act. You will have my full support to defend the Constitution that we all swear in this House and, above all, if we reform this Constitution in the future, that no one is wrong: we must reform it to guarantee the equality and freedom of all Spaniards; we must reform it to remove political privileges, but we must not reform it for those who strike democracy to win. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u198	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u199	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, President Puigdemont is not a member of our party, he is not a Republican. I think he's a progressive man and, knowing him a little bit, I'm convinced that from this rostrum he would have respected Mr. Rivera a lot. I would have respected him. I am convinced that never, ever, would President Puigdemont ever have said about Mr Rivera what Mr Rivera has said here in this rostrum of President Carles Puigdemont. [[Applause from the Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left]] Having said that, Mr. Rajoy, I'm sorry. I don't know if you're going to believe me or not, but I think we're facing a great missed opportunity. Teaching sabre and not teaching the word is not the same as 21st century men and women or people with great responsibilities such as you, who are at the head of the Government of a very important State of the European Union. I think that the size of the statesmen is seen in difficult times and the threatening tone, from the political point of view - I do not say that you have this character -, which you have used here, leads us down the wrong path, since you know perfectly well what will be the answer of President Puigdemont. By the way, this authoritarian drift, Mrs. Robles, I hope it doesn't happen. Do you remember that song by Maria del Mar Bonet: What do these people want to do in the morning?Is that what you're talking about? The day you may come looking for us, I hope you will too. Then it will not be worth saying: that dirty work will be done by the right, because you will have supported the authoritarian response of the People's Party. [[Applause from the Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left]] If one day you come looking for us, if one day President Puigdemont is arrested, if President Puigdemont and his Government are imprisoned, you will be co-responsible, co-responsible for what happened. [[A lady MP: A judge will do it.-Protests and rumors.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u200	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u201	Yes, because history illustrates it very faithfully. [[Protests]] By the way, never, ever, ever had happened what is already happening here, that you put yourselves at the service of the People's Party to execute a hypothetical - let's hope it is hypothetical - reform of the Constitution. For this reason, we value the word dialogue and mediation here. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u202	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u203	I wish it never will, but it can happen unfortunately. Two. Mr Rajoy, do you imagine that you are a president of a parliament that is so richly at home after a working day and you receive a court summons that you are accused of having allowed the freedom of expression of Members to be protected in the parliament that presides - this could happen here in this Parliament? Can you imagine that you are a mayor or a mayor of the 412 mayors who in their house richly at night with their family, after a working day in the city hall, receive a judicial summons because they have allowed in their plenary sessions the agreements made in the Parliament of Catalonia to be ratified? [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group and of the Joint Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats]] Yeah. Do you imagine being a deputy or a deputy who at the end of the day in Parliament is at home so richly too and it turns out that he learns that the Constitutional Court, a constitutional organ - hear - corrupted in its functions as a partyist, has charged this law of consultations that was approved in the Parliament of Catalonia? Do you know what it was approved for? So that it would be possible to hold a referendum -attention!- consultative, consultative so that one could know what the Catalans' opinion was about the relationship with the Kingdom of Spain. Finally, you talk about September 6 and 7. All right, I accept that, Mr Rajoy, I accept that the Rules of Procedure have been forced. But, listen - Madam President, I will finish immediately - take up my exercise of political honesty, but you must admit that in the Parliament of Catalonia two years earlier an attempt was made to create a paper with all the parliamentary groups to work on hypothetical laws and not only the opposition did not admit it, but you will also remember a photograph of Mr Iceta, Mrs Arrimadas and Mr Albiol before the Constitutional Court. I mean, are you telling the truth? Yeah. But I don't tell them, Mr. Rajoy, I don't tell the truth? Yeah? Do you believe that in the 21st century we can walk like this, with such simplistic manicism? [[Several Members: Nooo!]] Well, here we go, here we go. [[Applause from the Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and the Joint Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u204	For the Basque Parliamentary Group PNV, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u205	Mr President, of course, I am no one's spokesman, except for the Basque Group - with the permission of my colleagues and the Euzkadi Buru Batzar - but, look, this I am telling you knows until Mr Borrel, who was the one you commissioned to read the manifesto in that demonstration for the unity of Spain held in Barcelona. I do not see much television, but as Mr Ferreras is usually on his programme 24 hours a day, the other day after the session of the Parliament of Catalonia I put on television and saw that he was on his programme with Mr Borrel and some Tertulians were saying that Mr Puigdemont had declared independence, and others who had not declared it. [[Laughter]] Mr Borrel said that he did not understand what they were talking about, since Mr Puigdemont could not declare independence, and that it would have to be the Parliament of Catalonia because Mr Puigdemont could not do so. Why? I refer to the facts. Was there a formal statement? No, no, And what does the law of disconnection - agreed, suspended by the Constitutional, but including the steps that the Generalitat would have to take - say? He said that Parliament would meet in ordinary session to make the formal declaration of independence. Did it happen? No; obviously not with Spanish law either, because it does not exist. Therefore, the President cannot declare independence. I refer to the facts; moreover, I believe that we must always try to find the most favourable explanation for seeking solutions and for not finding conflicts. I do not know what Mr Puigdemont is going to say, for I am not his spokesman here, but I refer to the facts and the interpretation that seems logical of the steps that had been announced. I would also say to you, Mr President - I say this to both sides - that you should be careful of humiliations. I believe that much of Spanish society felt a certain humiliation after day 1 and after October 3. I can understand it - I also put myself in the skin of these people - but neither do we seek humiliations, because in order for solutions to be given we must give honorable solutions and outputs, honorable encounters for all, for all parties. I'd like you to make a call to the dialogue. I'm going to take your speech out there, I think it's the most important thing. You have spoken about that committee, but I also say that the work of that committee, under 155, seems to me to have no results. I mean, if the 155 application is approved, the climate to discuss all that is going to be impossible. That's why I insist, don't do it. Nor do we refuse to change the Constitution that you have spoken of. It seems good to me; I hope it's so that those of us who feel away from it don't feel any more. I hope things will go around, but the most important thing seems to me to be that appeal to the dialogue that you have made. He said that without law there is no democracy. Yes, Mr President, but the mere existence of the law does not ensure that there is democracy; so it must be felt by the people and, above all, by the Catalans at the moment. You said: Is it possible that the state can endure - you described it this way - the blackmail of secession over and over again? I say to you, Mr President: And is it possible that an advanced democracy, as the Spanish one presumes to be, can endure the unrest and constant revolt every equis decades in the same places of the state? Is that possible? That's acceptable and the other one's not? Because we could go back - I'm not talking about cannons - to what Espartero said, to what he said every 50 years... Now I'm not talking about cannons, but about imposing certain positions against a will - which we don't know if it's a majority, but let's see it. Is that good for a democratic state in the 21st century, really? Because avoiding blackmail is very easy; let's avoid it: laws of clarity with clear majorities, with reinforced majorities and even with times to choose and, if you choose and vote, that you cannot vote again every certain time. You tell me that every autonomous community... No, man, no; let's trap the lonely; let's see, here Euskadi and Catalonia are the ones that move, and you right now in Galicia have absolute majority, with which we know where the national problems are, and periodically arise. But that through the law can be arranged: Canada, United Kingdom, Norway, Denmark. In 1978, would you have accepted Mr. Suárez? I don't know, he had just been Secretary General of the Movement. Certainly not, but it is that neither would the factual powers have allowed it, because the Spanish Constitution of 1978 was done as it was done, and now, Mr President, we are in the 21st century in an open society. I'm finishing up, Madam President. All I'm saying from the referendum is that these are facts that have been given, that people have come out and tried to put a ballot paper, a paper in an urn; that per se is not a crime. That the guarantees didn't exist? Obviously, Mr President, because you have made sure to stop it, not because the other side did not want it. The State has made sure to prevent it. Have all the guarantees been given? No, no, What's its validity, for what? What is clear to me is that it is worth something that we should all bear in mind: that more than two million Catalans of every condition have said that they want to vote. Mr President - I am finished - there is a door for dialogue. Don't strain him, don't strain the situation. I hope that there will be a time when, although we cannot see the light now, we can see solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u206	For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u207	Mr Rajoy, I will not be the one to answer the Government's request to the Generalitat, but I do not think it prudent or sensible or responsible to respond to an offer of dialogue, of time off, of intelligent pause, with the threat of suspending autonomy; quite the contrary. One tip: do politics, the policy that existed forty years ago when Adolfo Suárez passed the decree of restoration of the Generalitat. Please see the explanatory statement and the basis of this decree, which is still in full application of the laws of Francoism. There was boldness, there was a willingness to resolve a political issue and there was, above all, a fundamental element: to accept that those who defend independence, those who defend the referendum, those who defend the right to decide, those who defend that Catalonia is our nation, it is the nation, we have part of the truth. Without recognizing the legitimacy of our arguments, you are in a profoundly undemocratic position, because the discussion we have is precisely whether those ideas that we defend can be defended within the framework of these institutions. If not, it is that we are expelled from institutions, expelled from dialogue and expelled from politics as an instrument to resolve this conflict. Mr Rivera, you have made an intervention of your own. [[Phalangist]] [[Protests.-Applause.]] Yes, of a *. [[Phalangist]] He has made his own intervention of those who entered Barcelona in 1939, and wants to liquidate the Catalanist program that began to be built in the early 20th century, which is the program that has led to the best times for our country. You want to return us to Franco's times, no doubt. [[Señor Cantó García del Moral: De Franco!]] Finally, I am addressing the Socialist Party: Mrs Robles, it is not compatible with the implementation of the 155th territorial commission. You have to understand. It will not be possible to talk about the territorial model with the Government of Catalonia suspended, so I would advise you that, in what depends on you, you should be able to make common sense to the Government. I'm done, Madam President. Mr. Rajoy, don't underestimate Catalonia's strength, don't do it. For seven years he has ignored that force of Catalonia. Catalonia is here, Catalonia is demanding its rights, Catalonia has set in motion, Catalonia will exercise its will to be a nation. Remember it! Thank you. [[Applause.- Mr Rivera Díaz asked for the floor.- Mr Hernando Fraile was in the speaker's rostrum to begin his speech.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u208	One second, Mr. Hernando. Mr. Rivera, what do you want?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u209	Madam President, I am asking for the floor for obvious reasons, for allusions and for an offence to this group that I represent and to my person. I simply wanted to make it clear that the only ones who have struck democracy here are the gentlemen of that parliamentary group. I was born in 1979, I'm a Democrat and I'm being stripped of my rights these gentlemen who here charge a salary and public money paid by all the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u210	Mr Hernando, I haven't given you the floor yet. Mr Rivera, you have spoken under the article protecting Members when it comes to allusions, and I am going to ask Mr Campuzano if he wants to respond and remove from the Journal of Sessions the expressions he has given.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u211	Madam President, I am very sorry, but I understand that Mr Rivera's speech has been in the terms I have defined: *. [[Phalangist]] Thank you. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u212	It shall appear in the Journal of Meetings and shall also record the withdrawal by the Presidency of that word which you have spoken. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-Protests and rumors.-Mr. Campuzano i Canadés asks for the floor.]] Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor. [[The Rumors Continue]] Silence, silence. I'm not giving any more words, Mr. Campuzano. [[The Rumors Continue]] Silence, silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u213	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this week we could hear - it would be good if we did not listen to those words -, this week we could read the article of whoever was spokesperson for Convergence i Union in this House when Convergence i Union had a parliamentary group in this House, Mr López de Lerma, who spoke among other things about the problems of Catalonia and said that Catalonia was in free fall, and that this was mainly due to the fantasy that some had manufactured around - as Mr Iglesias has done this afternoon - a ruling of the Constitutional Court. Mr. Iglesias, you usually make historical disquisitions that are often simply based on Google quotes, let me say that. You have spoken of Hazaña, very well, you read Hazaña, his memoirs, his newspapers and you will be able to see what Hazaña thought of what was the infamous government that happened in Catalonia during the Civil War and the disloyal behavior of that government towards the Spanish Republic, such disloyal behavior as some had had already had in 1934. It would be good if you read that. * Word withdrawn from the Journal of Meetings in accordance with Rules 103.1 and 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. I don't know if you met Suarez. I met Suarez, I met him personally; I already told you that Mr Suarez would never, ever have accepted that this should happen in Catalonia, nor would he have ever agreed with someone who is doing in Catalonia right now what Mr Puigdemont is doing and those you now have as allies in Catalonia, who are the gentlemen of the Republican Left of Catalonia. Look, what Mr Suárez did precisely in the Transition and what this whole House did was to erase what was then called assimilation, and he endowed Catalonia with its own institutions of government. These own institutions have served when they have acted loyally to turn Catalonia into what Catalonia has been: an exemplary community for the rest of Spain. Today some have acted unfairly and unfortunately we are facing what we are facing: a coup d'état to democracy, the Constitution and also the spirit of Mr Suárez and Mr Tarradellas himself when he said: I am here! This is what happened. They're going to allow me, because I don't want to be too long on this turn, to talk about the Lliga too, to make historical appointments, because today we're with history. Cambó said that patriotism can have two manifestations: a positive one, the one inspired by love for the very one that is fruitful and peculiar to strong spirits; or the negative one, inspired by hatred and aversion to others, is typical of uncultivated and sick spirits. Unfortunately this is what some people in Catalonia are imposing in recent years on these people and that silent majority that on October 8 went out to the streets to say: Enough! Look, tomorrow is Hispanic Day, we will commemorate the Discovery of America and the unity of the territories of Spain. It was a feat that fills us with pride to all the Spaniards who respect our history, a story that has had lights and also some shadows, but that have brought us here and that seems to me to make us worthy to be here today. Together, I have to tell you all, we are much better and that is what the history of this great country has shown for 500 years. Let's walk and let some sow weeds so that this town breaks down. We are a great people of Europe, a great people of the world, we have done great deeds that are recognized throughout the world, and our democracy and our Constitution have been an example for democracies and transitions in many parts of the world. Please, don't make them drunk anymore with their attitudes and behaviors. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u214	I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. I believe that what is important is already said and I will respond to the speakers from the various parliamentary groups who have taken the floor. I am pleased that in a matter as important for Spain as this is there is a coincidence in substance because, in the end and at the end, it is in what also coincide an immense majority of the Spaniards. We have contributed something over the past forty years to both the UCD and the PSOE and the People's Party and other political forces to which I have referred in this House. It's not an easy time, but it's our turn, and it's our turn to add. Mr. Iglesias, Azaña had his stages. I can send you some things that you have certainly already had the opportunity to read that they would not allow you to defend your positions here, but the problem today is no longer of Azaña or Ortega or of any other people who ruled at that time so difficult for Spain; the problem is ours, and I have at least made two concrete proposals here, which I believe are for the two most important matters. The first is an answer and the second is a commission in the spirit of trying to reach understandings and agreements among all. When you put forward a bill in Parliament, what you want is for it to come forward, right? And then you want it to come true or not? [[Mr Iglesias Turrion speaks words that are not perceived]] We can approve all your proposals and then - after what we have heard here some - it is irrelevant, because if they are not fulfilled it brings me without care. I welcome the enthusiasm you have shown for Don Adolfo Suárez. He said he was a man with guts and instinct, and I celebrate him for many reasons. First, because I share that statement and, second, because I hope it doesn't bother you, and that is that when I stop being in this House - I hope that in many years' time and that you see it - I would like someone like you to say too: What a gut and instinct Mr Rajoy had, and I wouldn't lie. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter and applause]] I would like to associate myself with the words spoken by the head of State in his day, as the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group has done. You know that millions and millions of Spaniards have been comforted, and that is also the function of the head of State. Finally, let me not share that assertion that there is a crisis of legitimacy in our country, because there is no crisis of legitimacy. This is a country which has a democratic constitution, which guarantees its rights, mine and those of all, which guarantees our freedoms, which affirms national sovereignty, which has allowed us to enter Europe, to have a great international presence and that this country has made progress, because it has done so and a great deal, over these years. You cannot say that we have a crisis of legitimacy, because you, thanks to those rules, are sitting in Congress today. Of course, because there is a democratic system and you can naturally stand for election and you can say here what you think is appropriate and appropriate. You should talk to a little more pride in your country, which you also call homeland, and do well to do so. There is no crisis of legitimacy, Mr. Churches. Mr Tardà, can you imagine the President of the Congress of Deputies changing the agenda for you or not letting you intervene or changing the agenda again? Can you imagine? Or, put to the imagination, do you imagine the president of the Congress of Deputies demonstrating with a megaphone in one hand in front of the seat of the Judiciary? [[Laughter and applause]] A curious system of respect. That's right. Your Honor, that's why I was telling you before, and I repeat it again now, that the exaggerated ends up being irrelevant. The Rules of Procedure were not forced on the 6th and 7th days in Parliament, it was much worse than that: they were deprived of their rights to Members, who have them because they have been elected by the citizens of Catalonia to whom you so often appeal in your speeches here. Mr. Rivera, whatever you say and do, Mr. Puigdemont, I care, frankly, I care. Look at what you've organized in the last stages. [[Laughter]] I think we should all care. I am aware of the dimension of the problem, I know that it does not have a solution in a quarter of an hour, I know what I do and I try to think about things and think about the consequences of my decisions. You have, of course, every right to comment. I have to govern; I can also give my opinion, but above all my function is to govern. I sometimes don't understand you, Mr. Rivera. I have shared my decisions with you, I have shared them, and I do not understand at least part of your intervention. [[Applauds]] Mr Esteban, I was not in that demonstration - which he also did not summon the People's Party - nor did we order anything from Mr Borrell; another thing is that we might be in charge of it in the future. [[Laughter]] Be absolutely certain that this has not been so. You have said, and rightly so, that Mr Puigdemont cannot declare independence, you have said, and neither can the Catalan Parliament. Man, unless they liquidate the law. He said yes, that the Catalan Parliament, yes. Well, look, I'm telling you that neither Mr Puigdemont nor the Parliament of Catalonia can do this unless they liquidate the law, which is what we hope Mr Puigdemont will tell us whether or not he has done in the last few days. It is true that working in the Commission with Article 155 in progress is not easy, so what I told you before is key. That's the key, Mr. Esteban. You are also concerned and therefore also have to support it. I cannot agree that the Spanish Constitution was done as it was done, unless that means nothing, but I believe that behind that statement there is something that I believe I would not like if it were translated into something concrete and verbalized. I believe that the Spanish Constitution - I do not know why there is a certain tendency in many Members to question it - is the best we have had, I do not know if throughout our history - some will be able to comment on the constitutions of 1812 or 1876, but without a doubt it is a constitution that has allowed us, as a country, to make a very important leap forward. The autonomous state itself originates from the Spanish Constitution; without the Spanish Constitution or with another constitution there would be no autonomous communities. It is clear that this is the case. Who would guarantee people's rights and freedoms? Would we have entered Europe? Well, you never know. We also demand something that has been very positive for all Spaniards. Of course, it can be reformed, but, like so many things in life, it is advisable to do so with caution and after thinking about it. Mr. Campuzano, I liked the recommendation: Do you politics. That's what you told me, isn't it? I've been doing it for thirty-six years, which isn't bad. [[Laughter]] Now you also speak of Suárez, and I welcome, as in the case of Mr Iglesias, that you do. I am much closer to your ideology than you and, of course, Mr. Churches. At the stage of Mr Suárez, who was undoubtedly one of the most relevant figures in Spanish politics in recent years, no one liquidated the law, no one skipped the rule of law, no one approved a Constitution for their autonomy. Mr Suárez would not have allowed that, because the laws would not have empowered him to do that and he would have had to prevent it. So, me, like Mr. Suárez. I am in favour of dialogue, even I think I am an expert on it, and of course I do not despise the people of Catalonia, I have never done so; in fact, I do not despise any person, or the people of Catalonia who vote for you or the people of Catalonia who do not vote for you or the people who do not think like you. I think that's what we should all do, not despise anyone, not harass. I have received many testimonies from many people who felt harassed, who felt pressured. I have received many testimonies and, of course, I will not despise any Spanish or world citizens, why not say so. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and of the members of the Government, applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-11-CD171011.u216	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is adjourned. It was eight and ten minutes of the night.
