ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the item on the agenda relating to the direct and single reading of the draft law amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the draft law approving the methodology for marking the Basque Country quota for the five-year period 2017-2021, which will be discussed cumulatively. I give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. [[Rumors]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. [[Pause]] Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u2	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is bringing to the House today the bill amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May of the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the bill approving the methodology for marking the Basque Country quota for the five-year period 2017-2021. In short, it is a matter of transferring to the legislation, as we have always said, an agreement between the Government of the State and the Basque institutions, and as such it is dealt with in Parliament. It was the Bureau of Congress that agreed on November 10th to proceed with the urgent procedure in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the House and no doubt with the intention that these rules will be in force with certainty from January 1, 2018. What are we talking about when we refer to the Economic Concert and the quota? We are talking about the specific autonomous financing regime of the Basque Country. We are talking about a system supported by the Constitution and the statute of autonomy, and with a very broad support of citizenship in the Basque Country and in Spain as a whole. We are talking about an instrument agreed between the State and the Basque institutions, its Government, the outside parliaments within the framework of our legal system. We are talking about dialogue and institutional loyalty. We are talking about self-government, how self-government is managed and applied in the state of autonomy in Spain, and we are talking about political integration within that exercise of self-government. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about Spain, plural Spain and the singularities that make us a country with a great personality, a country that is diverse in equality and equal in its diversity. We are also talking about citizens and political representatives who feel recognized in the existence of genuine and integrated institutions in a State that respects and promotes them. We are talking, in short, about normality in political relations and coexistence within the Spanish State, something which, without a doubt, all your ladies and gentlemen are seeking and working to preserve. What are we not talking about when we refer to the concert and the Basque quota? We are not talking about any kind of privilege or discrimination, nor are we talking about coins of change in political negotiation. Finally, we are talking about respect for dialogue and plurality. Ladies and gentlemen, the financing of the autonomous communities and, in general, the revision and updating of the entire territorial treasury of our country, is an outstanding issue that the economic crisis has prevented us from addressing in recent years. We have experienced the worst fiscal crisis in the state, we have all experienced it in our institutions. This crisis has been characterized by a lack of income, which made it impossible to deal with both the reform of the model of autonomous financing of the common system and the reform, in this case, of the specific regime of the Basque Country. It is the improvement of the economy, its gradual recovery of public revenues and the time that has elapsed that allows us to make a better assessment of the behavior of the current financing model that opens the doors and creates the conditions for us to address the outstanding tasks such as the renewals of the Basque quota or of the Navarra contribution, as I will now refer to. The new Basque quota law and the draft amendment to the Law on Economic Concert are now before the Courts. But we are also working to bring to Parliament the reform of the system of autonomous financing of the common system communities. We have already raised and repeatedly insisted that we need the Socialist Parliamentary Group and we need the Socialist Party in this commitment to renew autonomous funding, as with the rest of the groups in this House, but, from the government responsibility it exercises, we need the Socialist Party and the Socialist Group in this House in particular. We are also working to update the Navarro Agreement with the Kingdom of Spain in fiscal terms; we are working to develop the whaler economic regime and we are doing so to review and update different aspects of the Canary Islands economic and fiscal regime and the tax regime of Ceuta and Melilla. All these rules have in common that represent the plurality of Spain and also have in common that bring wealth and economic strength to the country through the different territories to contribute among all to the growth, the creation of employment and the support of the welfare state. Probably the most complex task is the reform of the autonomous financing system in the common system communities because it affects many administrations with different political sign governments and territories with very different interests, needs, geographical, demographic and social realities. Without forgetting that this system also obviously includes the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, whose authorities - I must recall - at that time did not participate in the Conference of Presidents at the beginning of this year 2017, which gave impetus to the reform of the financing model and which did not appoint its experts when the work began in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council to evaluate the system and make proposals. Such work is currently progressing in the area of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. In fact, the Standing Committee of Assessment Technicians, Autonomous Communities and Autonomous Cities are assessing the experts' proposals and have until tomorrow Friday to express their views on them. From there, the committee itself will discuss the configuring elements of the system. After these discussions, a draft will be prepared and discussed again in the Standing Committee in order to be able to adopt a final document which will in turn be submitted to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council for discussion. With all these elements we must be realistic and consider that on the dates we are at it is not easy - we know, but this is the will of all - to reconcile positions before the end of the year, but we must not be really ambitious in proposing those objectives, which should be incorporated into the new General Budgets of the State for 2018. In any event, the Government remains committed to the deadlines and to the implementation of the agreements as soon as possible. We will therefore continue these talks in the different areas, as is absolutely normal, talks in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, talks in this House, also within the Commission for the reform of the Spanish territorial model, and talks in the field of political formations, so that we all try to negotiate and agree on a new model in the first months of 2018. What we are bringing to the House today is the result of another negotiation, a negotiation that had been waiting to be updated for years and which, thanks to the dialogue today, we will be able to achieve, is going to be a reality. The Government therefore wishes to emphasize, first of all, the dialogue. It is the demonstration that something as simple as talking and listening can be the beginning of many operational, positive, good things for everyone. When there is will in people, loyalty in institutions and respect for the law any agreement is possible, like the one we see here today. An agreement that will benefit the Basque Country and will benefit the general interest of Spain both because of its economic content and because it contributes to the overall political stability of our country. A good - political stability - absolutely essential to maintain economic recovery and to strengthen coexistence. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Economic Concert and the quota are the two basic rules of the Basque Country's financing system. For the government and for this minister in particular, it is a pleasure to have concluded these agreements with the Basque institutions, which give continuity to Basque self-government and which give clarity and stability to the financial relations between the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Administration. I have to say that it is the same satisfaction and pride that I had in 2002, when I came up to this rostrum to promote the adoption of the Concert Law, which since then became a permanent institution of our democracy, without renewal deadlines, as a stable expression of forality within the Spanish legal framework. It is true that the concert had its historical roots in the 19th century, when the outlaws came to an agreement with the State so that it was they who collected most of the taxes and then paid a sum to the Ministry of Finance. These roots must be valued because they are part of our history and of the common heritage of the Basque Country and of the whole of Spain, but the current vitality and legitimacy of the concert have its starting point a hundred years later, in another much more relevant historical fact, as is the Spanish Constitution of 1978, which is the one that supports the concert in the recognition of the historical rights of the outside territories. From there all the constitutional governments of Spain have developed the Basque financing system. Thus, the government of Adolfo Suárez agreed to the first concert, which entered into force in 1981; that of Felipe González, the concertation of VAT; that of José María Aznar, the excise duties and the indefinite nature of the concert; that of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, the shielding of the rules outside the court, and in the X Legislature we also made the renewal of the concert as regards the concertation of the taxes of the electric sector and the IDEC. I would like to stress that the constitutional recognition of the concert is part of that spirit of transition that we so many share in this House, a spirit based on reconciliation and consensus and that for forty years has allowed the Spaniards, inhabitants of the different autonomous communities, to be proud of the plural reality of Spain of autonomy. The concert regime is based on the concertation - as its own name says - of state taxes with the Basque Country, in such a way that it is the outside institutions, that is, the general councils and outlaws of Álava, Guipúzcoa and Vizcaya, which exercise the tax powers of the agreed taxes. Therefore, Basque citizens and companies with tax offices in their territory pay their taxes just like any other Spanish citizen or resident company, only they do so to the out-of-pocket estates. Although in this case I would like to introduce a nuance and clarify that, in recent years, they pay even more than the majority of Spaniards, since the foreign holdings have not transferred part of the tax rebate launched by the Government of Spain in 2015 and 2016 in the IRPF and in the company tax. Currently, virtually all taxes of the Spanish tax system, with the exception of customs taxes, are entered into with the Basque Country. As a result of this concertation, it is the foreign estates that collect taxes in the Basque Country. With the money collected the autonomous community pays the Basque quota, which is the amount that it gives to the State Treasury for the skills exercised by it and which are not assumed by the community. The remaining money, which does not go to the State, finances the competences of all Basque institutions, i.e. the autonomous community, the outlaws and the municipalities, bearing in mind that the Basque local authorities do not receive from the State the participation in the taxes of the State corresponding to the taxes agreed. That's how the system works. What we are doing now with the bill amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May on the Economic Concert, is to adapt the concert to various legislative changes that have taken place in the state legislation and that were pending its incorporation into it. It has thus been agreed to update, inter alia, the provisions relating to tax groups, electricity tax, the option of non-residents to tax by the IRPF or the adjustment of the regulation of tax offences, in accordance with the new regime established in the Penal Code. Other measures introduced concern the IRPF, company tax and VAT, non-resident income tax and inheritance and donation tax, which involve optimising the tax management capacity of outlaws. Tax management improvements have also been introduced and in the coordination of our administrations. These measures aim to give greater clarity to the rule and facilitate its implementation in a way that is more coherent and beneficial to citizens. Among the measures incorporated into the concert is also the updating of the threshold figure of the volume of operations that delimits the competition between the administrations to demand the tax on companies and VAT, which goes from 7 to 10 million, update that the concert itself previews to be carried out periodically, as well as the extension of the concertation to new facts taxable in the tax on inheritances and donations, such as the succession of non-resident causers and the donation of properties located abroad. As regards the determination of the quota, the second part of this update of the financing scheme for the Basque Country is to determine the amount of the quota for the Basque Country for the five-year period 2017-2021. In addition, the bill approving the Basque Country quota marking methodology for the five-year period 2017-2021 specifies the criteria and parameters for the application of consumer adjustments with indirect taxes. Thus, the rates of consumption and collection of VAT and excise duties are specified, the rules for their calculation are laid down and the procedure for their settlement and payment is laid down. Finally, in order to guarantee institutional continuity, a mechanism is established to extend the validity of the norm beyond the five-year period 2017-2021 for the assumption, that we hope it will not occur, that it will not occur to us as in the five-year period not renewed, that before the end of the five-year period an agreement has not been reached for the renewal of the next five-year period, which is exactly, as we all know and regret, what has not been done in terms of the renewal of the five-year period that expired in 2011, which has been extended year by year until the entry into force of the new law that we are debating now in Congress. The first thing I would like to stress about the new Basque quota law is that it updates the contribution that the autonomous community makes to the State Treasury. In this area, therefore, it complies with the normality of financing the activities, as it stated, which the State carries out in the autonomous community in terms of untransferred competences. Indeed, the quota to be paid by the Basque Country is established by assessing at the state level the competences exercised by the State not assumed by the autonomous community and is regulated in a five-year law. This law establishes a base quota and from there, for the following years, the quota is determined by applying an update index, an index that is based on the evolution of the state's collection of the taxes agreed between each of the years of the five-year and the base years. The amount of the base quota for 2017 has been set at EUR 13 billion, a figure that is in the range of the establishment of the previous base quotas. When I had the honour of defending the quota law, which began in 2002, the figure barely exceeded EUR 1 billion. These are figures that are derived from the applied methodology, figures that are absolutely in line with what has always been the basis of the quota. It does not need to be remembered that that negotiation, which came to a good port and to those quota figures, was done when in this House there was an absolute majority of the People's Party. Therefore, we did not need to be in a minority to establish those figures when they are in perfect correspondence with those of that time - I insist - when we had an absolute majority in this House. What is done is to apply an index, in this case the so-called imputation index, to the burdens of the State budget that are not borne by the community. This index is reflected in the preliminary draft law, is basically determined by the income of the historical territories in relation to the State and is 6.24% for the new five-year period. To put it briefly, as understandable as possible, we are talking about the autonomous community collecting from its citizens and businesses the tax money it has assumed and with that money it pays 6.24% of the total unaccomplished competences. That's what we call the quota. With the rest of the money that it has raised, which may be more and less years, depending on the economic situation and its own management capacity, the Foreign Treasury does what it does is to meet the competences of the community, the outlaws and the local entities. Where does the amount of budget burdens that are not borne by the community come from? It goes from subtracting from the total expenditure of the State budget, which in this case amounts to 276 152.2 million euros, the full budgetary allocation that at state level corresponds to the competences assumed by the autonomous community, which is 89 966.5 million euros. Next to the value of these unmet charges, which amounts to just over EUR 186 185 million, it applies 6.24 %, giving us an amount of EUR 11 617.9 million. Logically, according to the Concert Law... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u3	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u4	... this amount should be reduced by 6.24% of non-tax revenue and unconcluded tax revenue, which are amounts that have not been collected by the out-of-pocket holdings, as well as by the government deficit, all of which are reflected in the General State Budgets for the base year. Once these adjustments and compensations have been made, the net amount to be paid is fixed, which is the 13 billion to which I have already referred. From this liquid quota the cost of active employment policies has been reduced since 2011, which since that year were assumed by the Basque Autonomous Community, giving us a final figure of 1076 million euros. As you know, among the powers not assumed by the Autonomous Community are all those reserved by the Spanish Constitution to the Central Administration, such as from the Head of State to foreign policy, national defence or ports and airports of general interest, as well as several other powers not transferred to the Autonomous Community and other expenditure figures such as the amounts allocated by the General Budgets of the State to the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. As far as VAT adjustments are concerned, that is another issue I would like to explain. I have put myself here a little technical because, as one has to read and listen to some things, I think it is worth occupying the speaker's rostrum to explain it, and I hope that they will be understandable for all these explanations of how we come to these figures. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] The more attention you devote, the more you'll find out. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Another question I would like to explain is the question of the adjustment of VAT, which has sometimes caused some confusion. As I have explained before, the peculiarity of the foral system lies in the fact that the Basque Country has as income the totality of the taxes that are generated in its territory and has as expenditure the contribution to the support of the burdens of the State through the so-called quota. The law of the concert states that the Basque Country has to pay VAT for what is consumed in that territory, but this figure may not coincide with what is collected there. Why? Because income from VAT returns may not be made in the same place where it is consumed. For example, VAT on imports is always entered in the State, although it enters through the customs office of the Basque Country and corresponds to products consumed there. In this way, if what is collected in the Basque Country is less than VAT than what is consumed in that territory, the State compensates the Basque Country, but if the opposite happens and the Basque Country is collected more then the State would be paid. Therefore, the two must not be mixed together. This is a system of VAT own settlement, it must not be subtracted. Otherwise, we do not understand what this system is or what the quota is or the transfers or actually the concepts themselves. Therefore they should not be mixed - I insist - both things. One thing is the quota, with which the Basque Country helps to sustain the competences of the State, and another very different the adjustments to consumption. They have different purposes and natures. The first, as I said, is to finance the State's powers in the autonomous community; the other, to adjust the VAT collection for consumption, because the dynamics of this tax makes it enter by window in a place other than the consumption where the taxable fact is. Therefore, conceptually these balances should not be offset; it seems that we are talking about different tax entities. This different nature exists and the compensation between administrations has existed since VAT was introduced in Spain in 1985, it has therefore a long tradition in the financial relationship between our tax administrations. I recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that in many cases the explanation of the figures, of the adjustments, even if it tries to be as light and simple as possible can be complicated, but I have submitted to it - and I apologize if I have been excessively prolific - because we are talking about a matter that affects a very important part of the Spanish population, that which resides in the Basque Country, its public services and its contribution to the common expenses of the State and I believe that we all need to know how it works. Basque citizens and businesses pay their taxes, like everyone else; as I said before, even something more, as is happening in recent years because taxes are somewhat higher in the autonomous community than in the rest of Spain. And these citizens and businesses are contributing, as are others, to financing the public services they receive and those we all receive depending on which public administration they provide. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we are bringing here today in the form of two bills is the result of the dialogue and negotiation between the Government of the State and the Basque Government and the outlaws, and ends with the discrepancies and uncertainty that have existed since 2007 on the amount of the quota. This broad agreement between the Government of the State and the Basque institutions has great political and economic relevance because it regularizes the financial relations between our administrations and nourishes them of clarity and stability for the next five years. So it is a good agreement for the Basque Country and a good agreement for the whole of Spain. It is good for our economy that is in recovery and in direct job creation; it establishes agreed rules between our administrations that is the essence of this peaceful relationship between these administrations and it provides political stability and economic stability that is always convenient, but today it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the economic recovery that the Basque Country and the whole of Spain is experiencing. I would like to stress that if we can bring this agreement to Parliament today it is because we, the Government of Spain and the Basque institutions, have worked in the field as much as possible. Neither of the two administrations has thought of putting on the table approaches that would go beyond that scenario as far as possible, because we are both aware of where the limits that bind us all and what is the best way to benefit our citizens. Today we can ratify this agreement because the Government of Spain and the Basque institutions have worked within the framework of laws and institutional loyalty. The Statute of Gernika, the Economic Concert, the Law of the quota are part of the legal framework in which our institutional relations develop, in the same way as is the Constitution, the norm that recognizes and protects the specificities and historical rights of the Basque Country. I would like to thank and appreciate the willingness of the leaders of these institutions in the Basque Country, also represented from the rostrum today by their finance adviser, Mr Pedro Azpiazu, and also by the finance delegates of these outlaws. We have, he said, come to that understanding because we have managed to be realistic in the approaches, and today we vote, therefore, this agreement because we are both aware that together we are stronger, and in saying together I am not referring to the governments, but to the citizens and to the whole of our communities, which are those in which our citizens live. Today, Congress is debating and voting on this agreement because we feel committed to the well-being of all citizens and because in doing so we are reaffirming our commitment to governance and stability. I insist, without governability and without stability, it is not possible to strengthen well-being. What these bills demonstrate is that our laws, the Constitution, the statutes and the State of Self-Government provide a very broad framework for strengthening and improving self-government, and also that political dialogue and agreement are possible between individuals, political groups and institutions in which different ways of thinking exist when there is will. It is possible and even probable that our State of autonomy can be improved as any human work, but what is also certain is that in the forty years that it has of existence it represents a historical milestone in the configuration of the Spanish State, a State that defends the economic, cultural, social and political rights and singularities of the different nationalities and regions and at the same time the unity of all of them. The obligation that we political leaders have is to take advantage of this legal framework to improve the lives of our citizens and to move forward obviously in the self-government of our institutions, and that, I insist, is only possible from the dialogue and from the will of the agreement. Of course, the Spanish Government wants to go that way and intends to demonstrate it day by day, as it does today. In this regard, I would like to end by appreciating and thanking the Basque Government, the outlaws and the Basque Nationalist Party, whose president also accompanies us today in the rostrum - with which we have had a loyal and sincere dialogue - that they have had that will of understanding from the beginning and that we have therefore been able to find ourselves on this path. But I would also like to thank the other groups in the House for their favourable attitude, which we are going to see in today's vote. I would especially like to thank the Socialist Party because with its vote it will confirm and reaffirm its commitment to forality, a commitment that we would like to see extended to the whole revision of the reform of autonomous financing. At the same time, I urge all political representatives in this House to continue to deepen and improve the funding of all our autonomous communities, of all our local corporations, because what we will be doing with this is improving the welfare state and thus strengthening economic recovery, promoting job creation, promoting equal opportunities among Spaniards and improving the quality of life of all. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u5	Thank you very much. An amendment to the full refund of each bill has been submitted. For the defence of your amendments, I have the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u6	Thank you, President. Deputies, citizens who accompany us today, institutions who are in the rostrum, welcome to the Congress of Deputies. Today we come to discuss two bills and Citizens have tabled the only possible amendment, as no partial amendments or any other amendments are allowed. The amendment as a whole is the only possible one that our group had, because this House is not going to discuss partial amendments by agreement of most groups. Today we do not discuss the existence of the concert or discuss forality, because that is something that is in the Constitution. We can take a different view in this House on historical rights and privileges, but we are not going to discuss this because it is in the Constitution and it takes two thirds to change our Constitution - so I am not going to waste much time on the few minutes I have for this intervention - but today we do come to talk about how it is calculated, managed and agreed on the calculation of the Basque quota, that is, the contribution of the Basque Country and its assets to the whole of the common Treasury of the rest of the Spaniards by the exception that in this case forality is involved. That's the problem. Today's problem is not about the Basque Concert, but today's problem is about the quota, or what everyone already calls 'cuponazo', because it obviously does not respond to a technical calculation but to a political bias. What the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the PNV, the Basque Government and the Government of Spain are doing today is a political setback, not a technical calculation. In the ten minutes I have I will focus on explaining to you why it is a political setback and not a technical calculation. First of all, I will explain to you the three reasons why we bring this amendment to its entirety. The first is that we believe in solidarity between the Spanish and the equality of all the Spanish. That is the first and main reason why we are presenting this amendment. These two laws that we are going to discuss do not guarantee solidarity; quite the contrary. They work for inequality and have an even greater impact on territorial insolidity, and that is why we are voting against it. The second reason is because we consider it a constitutional fraud. The Constitution recognizes forality, but also in article 138 it states that no status of autonomy or any community, despite its differences, may have any economic or social privilege. That is the text of article 138 and we consider this agreement to be contrary to article 138 of the Constitution. The third reason is an opportunity criterion. The Government of Spain and the Government of the PNV and the Socialist Party in the Basque Country bring us an agreement as a matter of urgency. We do not say that the five-year period has not expired, because it is true, but, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Government of Spain and also of the Socialist Party in their part, it is also urgent to bring here the Lofca, the Act on autonomous financing, and they have not brought it. They haven't brought it since the end of 2014. The Spanish Autonomous Financing Act sets a five-year period to recalculate the parameters and, Mr Montoro, the People's Party with an absolute majority has been in breach of the Autonomous Financing Act for all autonomous communities for three years. Why is it not urgent to think about the other autonomous communities and it is only urgent to think about the agreement with the Basque Country? [[Applauds]] Those are the three reasons why we will vote against. First, solidarity and equality in the face of inequality and privilege. Secondly, because we believe that we must also talk about the Lofca and the rest of the communities and not just about the Basque quota. We must also talk about the general budgets, which are curiously blocked by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. The other day a popular leader said that there was no atmosphere to approve budgets, but for this there is an atmosphere, to approve the 'cup' there is an atmosphere. [[Applauds]] Finally, as I said, the third reason is because we consider it to be contrary to article 138 of the Constitution. First point. The second autonomous community in per capita income - that is, a rich community - not only does it not contribute to the rest of the Spanish, according to the data of the Ministry of Finance itself, but it is a net recipient of funds from the rest of the communities. How can it be understood that a community that is richer not only does not participate in solidarity with the rest of the Spaniards, but is subsidized by almost 30% by the rest of the Spaniards? How can the government explain this to us? How can we accept this injustice, Mr Montoro? In 2008 you, Mr Montoro, and Mr Rajoy, when Mr Zapatero reached an agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party, said - and rightly so - that the Socialist Party's agreement was unfair. You were right, but this is even more unfair than the one Mr Zapatero reached with the Basque nationalists. Now, Mr Montoro and Mr Rajoy - who is not -, what is opportunistic is to criticize Zapatero's agreement with the nationalists and say that this one, which is more unjust, more insolidary and which gives them even more subsidy, is wonderful and the fruit of dialogue. Mr Montoro, this is even more unfair than the agreement reached in 2008 with Mr Zapatero. [[Applauds]] I'm going to give you data from the Ministry of Finance. The Community of Madrid contributes EUR 19 205 million to territorial solidarity; Catalonia - I hope that then the Catalan nationalists will explain to us how they will vote in favour of this - provides EUR 9892 million; even the Valencian Community, which is below the average per capita income, which is certainly the most damaged in this system, contributes EUR 1735 million, but the Basque Country before the agreement received EUR 3387 million. And you have to add the 300 that you are going to give now every year and the 1400 that you have recognized from a debt that we do not know why you were wrong in the calculation before. Where do the $1400 million come from? [[Rumors.-Mr. Hernando Fraile utters words that are not perceived]] Yes, yes, it's ministry data. Don't get nervous. Ask Mr. Montoro, he publishes them, I don't; I can't publish them. [[Applauds]] Therefore, a community that should contribute funds to the common fund receives grants of €3387 million. Who pays for it, Mr. Montoro? You said it's wonderful for the rest of the Spaniards. It's not so wonderful. The rest of the Spaniards are financing that, the 'cup'. It is financed by your cuts, your pockets, your taxes, your money; not you, it is financed by the Spanish. And Citizens have decided that we are going to be supportive but that we are not going to make the rest of the Spaniards pay for their political moods with the nationalists. We are not going to go there and, indeed, it will be the first time a party votes against. And we would do it again if we had been present in an agreement like 2008 and in others that are not fair. I'm going to give you a data, because the Basque Nationalist Party always draws good management data. It's very easy, with more money it's easier. Do you know what's going on? The average expenditure per student in the Basque Country is 8976 euros per year. Do you know what the average expenditure is in Madrid? It's 4443, and in Catalonia, 4595. The Spanish average is 5100. Hey, that's how I manage education better too, twice as much money, of course. [[Applauds]] So don't take so much breasts out of good management, because with more money and not contributing to solidarity it's all much simpler, but much more unjust. I will set an example for you so that the citizens understand us. This is as if we have a community, in this case we are going to put a citizen, who charges 200 000 euros a year and, instead of paying 40 or 45% of IRPF, the government says to him: No, don't give me anything, don't pay IRPF even if you cover 200 000 euros a year and I will also give you the long-term unemployment and a non-contributory pension. That's the 'cuponazo': give money to the one who should contribute; that's the 'cuponazo'. [[Applauds]] Meanwhile, to other communities that do not arrive at the end of the month - to other individuals, following the example - you ask them to pay more taxes; they raise taxes. Let us talk about the Valencian Community, Madrid, Catalonia and the Balearic Islands, which contribute clearly to interterritorial solidarity. Hey, what face are the Catalan nationalists and separatists going to vote for this? I saw that Esquerra did not ask for the speaking time; they were muted before this. [[Mrs Capella and Mrs Farré and Mrs Jordà and Mrs Roura say words that are not perceived]] Oh, they asked for it? Fantastic, you will explain to us why 'Spain steals from us' and why you are able to vote for this injustice. They're gonna explain it to us all. [[Applauds]] Do you know why Catalan nationalists do not vote against this? Because they want another 'bunny', because they want privileges, because they want another pact like this, because they want to bring out the blow to democracy they have given. That is why you do not vote against it, because you also like privilege as good supremacists. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, the privilege. [[Applauds]] The next point I was talking about is the Constitution. Article 138 has already been read; there can be no economic and social privileges arising from the difference between statutes of autonomy or, in this case, from the Basque Concert. Therefore, we consider it unconstitutional. Is it the opinion of Citizens what I tell you, Mr. Montoro? For it is the opinion of Citizens; it is the opinion of Francisco de la Torre, who was general secretary of the inspectors of the Treasury of Spain - something you will know, I say -; it is the opinion of Luis Garicano - a good economist of this country - but, Mr Montoro, it is the opinion of the experts that you have appointed. Mr Ángel de la Fuente explains today on the cover of a diary that you have done magic, that you have multiplied the money for the Basque Country. The experts you've appointed don't know where the numbers came from. Mr. Montoro, appoint experts to say otherwise that experts are useless. Mr. Angel of the Source will know something, won't he? You named him. He seems to me a very sensible and very prepared person, really. Furthermore, I know him, and I think he is one of the people who knows most about autonomous financing not only from Spain, but from Europe. But if you appoint an expert and the expert warns that inequalities must be corrected and you increase inequality, you are leaving Mr Angel de la Fuente at the foot of the horses. But also Mr. Alain Cuenca. Do you know who Mr. Alain Cuenca is? Mr. Alain Cuenca was Director General of Financial Coordination with Mr. Zapatero. And, you Socialists, in this case you have not even heard those who worked with you. Do you know who Carlos Monastery is? An expert appointed by the Autonomous Community of Asturias who resigned because he was against the quota. Right, Mrs. Lastra? Can you hear me? Yes, of Asturias. You know it well. The one you appointed to talk about this resigned because he was against what you are going to vote for today. That's what's happening, that you don't hear common sense, don't read the Constitution and, on top of that, you jump to experts. [[Applauds]] So, Mr. Montoro, it's not an opinion. You say, no, you have no idea. Well, then you're saying that the experts you've appointed have no idea; are you saying that? Well, I think you have a better idea than you do. What happens is that experts believe you, or ready, I don't know if experts. You are experts in cakemaking; you are experts in inequality; you are experts in pacting with the nationalists and abandoning the rest of the Spaniards; you are experts in making pacts outside the Constitution and then dressing them in dialogue; you are experts, but experts precisely in going against the general interests of the Spaniards. We, Mr. Montoro, do not want experts in triquiñuela, experts in where the ball is. We want experts to see a better funding model. Mr Montoro, Citizens has been the only party that voted in favour of the investiture of your Government. Think about it. The Basque Nationalist Party did not vote in favour. Think about it; think about it. The 2018 General State Budgets, who has agreed with you? Citizens. We have been loyal to the government; we have been loyal to the Constitution and loyal to the whole... Yes, yes, it makes them angry that we agree things! [[Rumors]] Look how they get nervous. It makes them angry, but it's reality. We have agreed some budgets and, by whom are they blocked, Mr Montoro? For the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. But you get nervous because Citizens, which is the only party that voted yes to the investiture, the only party that has supported budgets in advance for 2018, tell you what most Spaniards and most of their voters think. [[Applauds]] I'm just finishing up, that we don't have any more time or replica. On the General Budgets of the State some said that there is no atmosphere. Mr Eguibar of the Basque Nationalist Party said: We have no pact and there is nothing planned for the approval of the budgets. Like they're not urgent! Look, there's a drop in the IRPF for all the planned Spaniards and they're blocked because the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party don't support them. There is equal pay between police forces; there is zero to three years of schooling; there is an increase in paternity leave. Is there no urgency for that, gentlemen of the nationalist party? You guys just mind talking about your own thing? Don't you care about Spain? Don't you care about all those families who are waiting for general budgets? Look, if there is an environment, as some say, to approve this injustice, especially for what there is an environment, it is to approve the General Budgets of the State, Mr Montoro. I ask the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party - it is not worth supporting injustices and then looking elsewhere before justice for many Spanish families - to stop blocking the General Budgets of the State. Let's talk about all the Spaniards, not just pacts in the dark and politics. And, Mr Montoro, on the Lofca, which we agreed on in the investiture agreement you and we have already done more than a year ago, you have not yet done anything. The experts who had appointed for the Lofca pass through the lining, pass through the arch of triumph. [[Rumors]] Yes, yes, they pass through the arch of triumph, and I ask you to listen to the experts again... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u8	...that they bring here the law of financing for all Spaniards and that they do not make 'cups' at the expense of the rest of the Spaniards. I'm done, President. We are in favour of equality among all Spaniards. We are in favour of the Constitution. We respect even what we do not like about the Constitution; but what we are not willing to do is to shut up, look elsewhere or do what the Socialist Party does. You can't call yourself progressive and defend this. One cannot say that he believes in solidarity and defends insolidity. You can't say one who believes in the equality of the Spaniards and vote against greater inequality. In short, there is no right for this House today to perpetrate another new injustice here. Some of you are saying that we are going to be voting this alone, perhaps we are going to be voting this alone, but I am convinced that the majority of the Spaniards are more in agreement with an amendment to this entire quota than with the injustice that you are going to vote on today. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the floor, applause.- The Minister for Finance and Public Service, Montoro Romero, asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u9	I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain silent and please take your seats.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Political differences are part of the functioning of a Parliament and, of course, are part of any development of basic and fundamental political agreements. Political differences must be expressed in concrete terms, beyond epithets and qualifications, they must be made from respect, and today your lordship, Mr Rivera, has not used respect; he has not used respect when talking about patches, triumphal arches, etc. That is not the case with a political leader who has maximum aspirations in a country. You don't speak like that from this rostrum, if I may. [[Applauds]] Are we on an election campaign? Yeah, we're on an election campaign. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: You'll know]] A very important electoral campaign for the future of Spain, in which very important things will be decided from the version of what this electoral campaign is representing for the next elections on 21 December in Catalonia. Very important. We are playing a lot, as we did when we went together in the implementation of Article 155 for the first time in our country. When we are experiencing this situation, certain qualifications are left, certain clashes between Spanish citizens are left, there is the emphasis on comparative grievances on the part of whoever does it, of the political leader who does it. When instead of normalizing the institutional relationship what is done is to put the emphasis on the aggravation, it is to lead to the confrontation between Spaniards, to do so by a political party in this House or to do so by an autonomous leader from his own autonomous community. [[Applauds]] And we don't work for that, we haven't made this democracy to confront each other. We have made this democracy from plurality and differences. That is what we have done in the 1978 Constitution and that is what the different successive Governments of Spain have done, to develop that Constitution and that Constitution implies differences but those differences do not have to lead to grievances. We see it in the economic reality of those territories, we see it in the economic reality behind that plurality. I can cite many examples of the application of the Economic Concert and the Basque quota. For example, in the 1980s the outland haciendas were not enough to avoid the great industrial crisis, when the Basque Country lost its heavy industrial fabric. I had outside finance then but it wasn't enough to avoid it. In the recent economic crisis, the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands was unable to prevent the Canary Islands from leaving at the highest unemployment rate in Spain alongside Andalusia. So let us not try to look for the causes of economic crises and differences in the unique behaviour of our farms. That is a mistake of concept, as it is also trying to establish solidarity on the premises of what our finances are not. We do not live in estates where territorially solidarity is interacted, that is not true in the Spanish Treasury. The experts are very respectable... [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows a cover of the newspaper El Mundo]] I know, he's very respectable, but he talks to you, too. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mr Rivera, with all due respect, the difference between each other and also between you and me is that I have spent my whole life dedicated to this, my whole life, and I have also devoted part of my life to this House and to the Government of Spain, and others have just arrived. [[Applauds]] [[Rumors.-Mr Floriano Corrales: How rude!]] Please have some..., I don't know what to call it, at the time of understanding. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows the cover of El Mundo again]] But if that's all right, what I want to tell you is that one thing is to write an opinion from outside and another thing is to bring a law to this House. [[Applauds]] I assure you it's completely different; I assure you it's completely different. And if you want to take a cover headline, that's fine, but there's a way to propose a government and a way to propose the understanding between Spaniards: selling newspapers! [[Applauds]] That is really the formula that some are proposing; indeed, this is the exhibition he does with the covers, selling newspapers! We're talking about laws consistent with our democracy, that's what we're talking about. We are talking about laws that are enshrined in the Spanish Constitution and I have tried to explain that tax balances are not comparable, they are not comparable. I have explained that the basic quota is practically the quota that we have applied to all the governments of Spain. [[Mr. De la Torre: No]] Isn't that right? We've all been wrong. That is the greatness of those who come new to this House, that everything was so bad in our country that until they arrived the seas were not opened; what do the seas say!, the heavens were not opened. Mr Rivera, we with you, of course, have - and we are fulfilling - entered into an investment agreement where respect for our institutions and respect for foraality lies, or is it not? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: No]] It's there. And there is also the development of autonomous funding that we are carrying out within the deadline of 2017, fulfilling that program. That's what we're doing. We're having a loyal behavior, a behavior that never uses those ratings, Mr. Rivera, never, ever uses those ratings. Loyalty must also be understood in relation to collaboration and cooperation, which are those which the Government and the Ministry of Finance and Public Service try to have with their group at all times, offering them all explanations, all relevant data and all the justifications that we can and must give and face all those who want to hear us in a legislature like this and in any other legislature or any other circumstance. Therefore, you take a position, but certain qualifications that have been used here are not acceptable, and I want to say that on the part of the Government of Spain we do not accept any aggravation with regard to territories whose fiscal treatment is recognized in the Constitution, which we have been developing for forty years and that now, when we are overcoming an economic crisis, the most terrible in our history, because we have never before had recessions and job losses of this intensity, it is time to strengthen the links and relations between our administrations, and the confrontation between these administrations to what leads us, without a doubt, to create grievances where there must be none and to hinder a climate of political stability that we need to settle economic recovery and job creation in our country. [[Mr Rivera Díaz asks for the floor]] Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u11	Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u12	Madam President, given that the Minister has opened the turn of reply and referred to my personal assessment, I would like to have a brief turn in order to be able to reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u13	Mr Rivera, pursuant to Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, you have three minutes from the seat.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u14	Thank you, President. Mr Montoro, to say that you have not at all respected the experts you have appointed is a truth, though it hurts, and that is what I have told you. And I don't think you're in a position either to give many lessons on how to talk and respect citizens; we all know you already and you're a failed minister in this House for some of those things. Secondly, what we have come to defend here, Minister, is interterritorial solidarity. It is legitimate - let it be clear that I agree with you on that - that you are in favour of contributing money to the Basque Country and that the Basque Country does not contribute to the rest of the Spaniards, but it is also legitimate for others to think differently. The only thing I have said to you, and I remind you again, is that Mr Rajoy was invested as president not with the Socialist Party or the PNV, but with those of Citizens; that we support the 2017 budgets and that those of 2018, that these gentlemen and those others block, preventing improvements for the Spaniards, we have agreed with you. For me that is loyalty with Spain, with Spanish citizens and with the word given. Third. The Lofca agreement, Mr Montoro, has been failing since the end of 2014. You had an absolute majority. We are going to end 2017 and here there is no Lofca, here there is no fair funding for the rest of the communities, and if you don't like to hear it, I'm sorry, but I'm going to repeat it: We want fair funding for all the communities, and it comes before, as a matter of urgency, a 'cuponazo' than an agreement for all the Spaniards. Fourth. Mr Montoro, what I was teaching you is not that it was a cover of a newspaper - I already know that some would like there to be no newspapers and already try -, what I was teaching you were the words of the highest expert that you, as Minister of Finance, and the government appointed, of Mr De la Fuente, who literally says, and I teach it again: 'The figure of the quota is magic. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows again the cover of the newspaper El Mundo]] The Basque Country must pay more.' It's not my opinion, Mr. Montoro, it's your expert, it's the one you've appointed and I think you're a competent person. What is my fault that you appoint a committee of experts and then ignore them? What fault do I have for the Socialist Party naming experts and then passing over? It's you. What do they call them for then? They deal in a room with the PNV and the Basque nationalists again and there is no need for experts and no need to make a paripé. You set up a commission, some experts, bring a document and pass it on. That's the reality. Therefore, Mr Montoro, yes, it is true, there are discrepancies, because Citizens believe that communities that raise more money should collaborate with solidarity and you believe that no, that the Basque Country is an exception and does not have to cooperate, and we disagree politically with that. You and the Socialist Party are defending that privilege that we consider unconstitutional, and nothing is wrong, Mr Montoro, you will vote in favour of increasing insolidity and we will vote in favour of combating inequality. Everyone votes what they want, but then don't be offended when we tell you the truth, because you too have every right to do so. [[Rumors]] Finally, do not continue with the insult, and I say this because yesterday, speaking of insults, your spokesman called us populists, irresponsible and ignorant. However, even if they continue to insult us, even if they do, we will not stop defending equality. Yesterday we were told everything and the day before yesterday with the Education Act. Anyway, we are convinced that this is the project that Spain needs, and if there are groups in the House that do not like, it is legitimate to disagree, but no need to insult. So don't try...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u15	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u16	I'm done. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u17	Your Honor, I had three minutes. Your time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u18	Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u19	Mr. Montoro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rivera, I want to thank you, you've changed the tone. Speak better from the seat than from the rostrum. [[Laughter]] Try to bring an amendment to the whole next time from the seat and not from the rostrum. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u21	Mrs Oramas González-Moro first spoke on the question of position-setting by the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rivera, the Constitution and the legal framework always, not when you're interested in a few votes for Citizens manipulation. Flaco favor you do the unity of the Spaniards by getting involved in that national flag and creating a new territorial conflict. [[Applauds]] You with a slogan, by a few votes, are able, by a Catalan election and a few votes in Catalonia, to face the rest of the citizens. This Constitution shielded and updated the Basque and the Navarros as well as the Economic and Fiscal Regime. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u24	Do you know what I'm saying? He is irresponsible, because he is a populist and because by a few votes he wants to face the citizens of this country. [[Applauds]] It does not tell the truth, you manipulate the Constitution and distort the reality of what the General Courts have agreed today and in thirty years of democracy. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows a copy of the Spanish Constitution]] Keep this up, wrapped in a national flag but facing the citizens and communities of this country. Coalition Canaria will support the Constitution, it will support the Basque and the Navarros, the Fiscal Economic Regime, the constitutional framework and the legal framework, as the democratic parties of this country have done for thirty years. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u25	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will not give the floor to the speaker until there is no silence in the Chamber. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rivera, Mr Prendes and other Members of Parliament for Citizens, since they invoke the constitutional principle of equality between Spaniards, do they agree with the insolidary pardon of FLA's interests? [[Laughter]] Do you agree with the forgiveness between 2012 and 2016 of €75 billion of interest to Catalonia, or with the 5321 million to the Valencian Community, or with the 3555 million to Andalusia? Do you agree that Madrid is only forgiven 187 million or Asturias 271 million? If you do not agree, I hope you will present an initiative to reject this perverse distribution of gifts to which I have never heard you object and which supposes that Catalonia received by cancellation of interest 1009 euros per inhabitant; the Valencian Community, 1078; Andalusia, 422; Asturias received by cancellation of interest 262 euros per inhabitant, the fourth part that Catalonia or Valencia; and Madrid, 33 times less than Catalonia and Valencia. What equality is this? Why in Catalonia, Valencia or Andalusia do they support inequality and in the Basque Country reject it? Is the FLA supportive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u27	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Parliamentary Group, historically Union of the Navarro People has abstained when the Basque quota is brought to this House, but this time we are going to vote in favour of this bill which is being presented in this House today for three reasons. Firstly, now that in Madrid and in many communities it has become fashionable, both in political discourse and in the media focus, against the Basque quota and, therefore, against the Navarra Economic Convention, although it has substantial differences, we will vote in favour of it. Secondly, because no one can question the legality of these singularities which both the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre have. And thirdly, because the Navarro People's Union is facing the re-centralisation of community funding. Those are the three reasons. I want to make them understand and do some pedagogy. The two Members of the Navarro People's Union are prepared to go and explain to each of the Members who have doubts that, at least with regard to Navarra's uniqueness, they must understand that the economic agreement is part of the collective being of the Navarros and not so much of a competitive power, which is also. That is why, because of this singularity based on constitutional loyalty, based on co-responsibility management - because economic and financial decisions are made in our community - and also based on the solidarity of all Navarras with the rest of the Spaniards, we will vote yes to this Basque quota, as I also hope that you will vote when here comes the Economic Convention of Navarra's relationship with the whole state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u29	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u30	The Economic Concert is an important tool for the development of our self-government, it is the rest of our historical rights, a starting point to defend for those who aspire to full sovereignty and something to overcome insofar as it is also what continues to bind us to Madrid. It gives us the ability to manage our resources, but it also contains a risk: if things come wrong - for example, if there is a lower collection - no one helps us. It is therefore no privilege. No one gives us anything; moreover, the Basque Autonomous Community pays 6.24%, when the weight of our economy is 6.1 of GDP and represents 4.8 of the population. I will say even more, through quotas, that we pay those powers that have not been transferred or that the Government in office refuses to transfer, with what we contribute, without being able to say anything about it, to the payment of the monarchy or the Navy, issues that are at all priorities for Basque citizenship. Therefore, those who think that the financing problems of the autonomous communities are due to the concert and the quota are wrong, and should set their gaze on the capacity for insufficient collection for a misguided fiscal policy and on the unbalanced distribution of resources to the benefit of the State and to the detriment of the autonomous communities. But it is also wrong for those who think that the concert and the quota can become a matter of negotiation, they are a right contained in a law that must be complied with and whose renewal has been deliberately delayed by the Government until their own needs have led them to negotiate the support of the PNV, which, confusing their partisan interests with those of the citizenry, has used as a currency of exchange, negotiating behind the backs of the PNV and its political representatives. And the final result, the agreement by which today we vote these two laws, is not good, because it gives for good the scheme of subordination before the State and does not break with that false bilaterality to which it clings, which is only to submit to a dynamic by which the fact that the agreed fulfillment - the concert and the quota - will be...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u31	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u32	Yeah, I'm finishing up. ...will depend on the situation of weakness or strength of the ruling party. If you do not break with this relationship that has led you to renew the laws - yes, but after more than ten years in which we have paid above what is stipulated by the law, now an amount to be returned in comfortable terms and without interest - if you do not break with this, you cannot defend the interests of the citizenry. Therefore - and end with this - Euskal Herria Bildu supports the update and improvements of the Law of the concert and will vote favorably, while he will abstain in the Law of the quota, as it is not time to play small. It is time to act with a country view; it is not time to ally and help in the needs of the PP and the drivers of Article 155, but to defend our limited decision-making capacities to work for a different future in which Madrid does not decide for us and we are subject to all our decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u33	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Group, Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Some have been surprised that Compromís votes not to the Basque quota and I would just like to remember why we do it: of each one, according to his capacity, and to each one, according to his need. Redistribution is a progressive value and we will never give it to the far right. Let me, in the short time I have, address Citizens. You do not deceive anyone, you come to do what you know best, you come to do the Pharisees, because you had the opportunity to defend equality in budgets when Compromís tabled an amendment to make investments fair, depending on economic necessity, and you voted no. Where were you to denounce the abuses of Mr Rajoy's executive with the groups in this House? Where were you? And in the short time I have left, let me think about it. We come from Valencia to give a message to the rest of the state: we want a system of financing just for everyone, without any kind of privilege. And we are very tired - I insist, very tired - that in Spain politics has always revolved around the axis Madrid-Euskadi-Cataluña. There is a forgotten Spain that we represent, and we are already very tired. We will vote against the Basque quota.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u35	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Bel Accensi. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will intervene very briefly. We will vote in favour of the concert and the quota, as we have always done. We must do so because it is an agreement of the legitimate Government and of the whole Basque country with the Spanish State. I want to do a math, Mr. Rivera. Mr. Rivera, listen, listen. [[Rumors]] Yes, you must listen, you must listen. Those who oppose the quota on the basis of uniformity and equality are because they do not actually accept diversity. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral: Yes.-Laughter and applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u37	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u38	They do not accept national diversity, they do not accept linguistic diversity, they do not accept cultural diversity, they do not accept economic diversity, and we start by not accepting these diversity and we end up not accepting ideological diversity or politics, Mr Rivera. [[Applauds]] We Catalans know that, and so do the Spanish. We have suffered for many years and will not accept to suffer again. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Finance, good morning. I would like to welcome the representation of the Basque Government and the outlaws who are accompanying us here today, with the Councillor, Mr Azpiazu, at the head, on such an important day for us. Ongi etorriak. Today is a key day, because we will approve the amendment of the law approving the economic concert and the Five-year law of the quota for the period 2017-2021, thus ratifying the agreement of the Joint Commission on Economic Concert, two bills resulting from a bilateral agreement between the representation of the Basque Government and the Government of the State, an agreement that, on the one hand, adapts the concert to various legislative changes in the state system and, on the other, normalizes and regularizes the financial relations of the Basque State, ending the discrepancies of the last ten years and allowing economic certainty, financial stability and legal certainty to all institutions. It is therefore a concert that adapts to new realities and economic situations. I would like to clarify certain manifestations that are taking place - sometimes wrong and others said in an interesting way - about the concert and the quota. There are many voices talking - today we have heard it here - about overfinancing, privileges. Well, I have to tell you that the concert is nothing like that or the panacea that solves everything, because for it to work requires a great capacity for political and institutional management both in the collection of taxes and in the management of expenditure. The concert is legitimized not only historically, but also by the Constitution, which recognizes it, by the Statute of Gernika, which collects it, and by the European judicial process, which recognizes it as any other tax system and establishes as a condition for the concerted systems to be legal to have an institutional, regulatory, economic and fiscal autonomy, a fully European and modern fit that, as such an autonomous system, implies that the effects of its fiscal rules cannot be compensated by the State in which it is integrated, so that if there is a deficit the State cannot rescue you. The Basque financing system is a one-sided risk model for Euskadi. The Basques are the ones who assume the risk of collection, because the base quota is established according to the expenses of the State and not the collection. Subsequently, in the following years, it is when the base year's net quota is updated on the basis of the State's agreed income. The payment of the quota is therefore compulsory, regardless of the financial situation of the Basque Country. Thus, if the Basque Country did not collect enough, it would have to adjust its own expenditure, since it could not go to mechanisms such as the FLA or other instruments, as the rest of the autonomous communities of common system do. This forces us to collect and manage well and to spend carefully. Because I would also like to remind you that in the Economic Concert the average tax burden must be equal to or higher than that of the common system. It is malicious and with absolute lack of realism to say that there is nothing like a tax haven. The objective and true fact is - as the numbers confirm - that the fiscal pressure in Euskadi is higher than in common territory, with marginal rates of higher income, a nominal rate of larger companies in three points and even with taxes that tax wealth; yes, there the property tax is paid. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u41	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. You don't listen. You are complaining about the megaphony of the Chamber, but it is that part of the reason why you are not listening, apart from the fact that the megaphony is being renewed, is because you continue to speak permanently. Please respect the speaker and think that it is you who are in the rostrum. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u42	Euskadi is solidary, contributes to the common expenses not assumed by the State in proportion to its wealth. We pay 6.24% of state expenditure throughout Spain when the economy in Euskadi is 6.19% of the state and accounts for only 4.66% of the population. Therefore, with the 6,24, for example, we pay the AVE Madrid-Valencia and also with the 6,24 we pay the highways of the State. We also contribute 6.24 to the Inter-Territorial Solidarity Fund, which is the instrument used by the State to contribute to solidarity between regions, a fund the amount of which the Government establishes in the General Budgets and a fund in which Euskadi is not logically the beneficiary. We also feel that the per capita expenditure capacity in Euskadi - we have heard it here today - is higher; yes, because the income level in Euskadi is 30% higher than the state average. We also have more skills. That we have more resources to finance these costs is a consequence of what I have already said, but also of the increased fiscal pressure. So we are also more effective at collecting, because fiscal policy is in our hands, and at the same time the weight of the submerged economy is less, five points less. In short, because higher income, more competition and higher efficiency explain that per capita expenditure is higher. Why are we not going to have more spending capacity and allocate it to health or social policies if it is financed by our fiscal effort once the obligations towards and without subsidies from the State have been met? Among the various funding systems of the State, the fifteen common system communities and the outlying communities, there are no communication vessels. The fact that the Basque Country pays more or less a quota does not affect the common system communities at all, since the relationship is absolutely bilateral. The State finances the common system communities regardless of what is paid per quota, so the outside communities cannot be held accountable for the common system problem. They're just different systems. Although the Basque Country gave 100 per cent of its collection, first, it would not go to the autonomous communities, but to the State, and second, that amount would not solve the problem of common system financing. The new five-year quota law provides for a base or starting point of $1.3 billion, which is higher than that established so far. To say, as has been said here in this House, that there is a negative quota is a solemn nonsense, because it cannot exist by definition. The agreement is, yes, complex - is it easily understandable the settlement in the common system? - but at all opaque. It is established with a technical basis in which technicians from the State Administration and the Basque Administration participate. Are you insinuating, gentlemen, that these officials are provoking? The technicians of both administrations have worked professionally and according to technical criteria, putting on the table the numbers and objective data of the budget. Therefore, legality, transparency and knowledge. Those who criticize or reject it with such lightness, or do so with absolute ignorance or, worse, with populist and short-term interests, in search of an easy vote, trying to untie and face, some, and seek scapegoats, others. This, gentlemen of Citizens, not only I say to you, but also the one who was your candidate for the Mayor of Bilbao, who resigned yesterday for the vote of his formation against these two laws, because, according to his words, to strike against the bond of forality is to break a constitutional pact unnecessarily. In short, Lords of Citizens, you do not understand and, worse, you do not want to understand. To claim a homogeneous comparison of common and foral financing schemes based on economic studies on the part of which they face major conceptual and methodological difficulties and which require assuming conditions and assumptions, rather than questionable, erroneous in order to compare deeply different regimes and justify, through criticism of the concert, the poor financing of the common system territories is a political irresponsibility. Repeating falsehood often does not make it a reality. In short, neither privileges nor paradises nor insolidity. Those who speak like this should exercise self-criticism and look to the future, ceasing to demonize success or otherwise others to start learning to improve, and not embark on the search for any hint of disadvantage or discrimination in which there is usually little to gain and much to lose. A differential fact does not amount to any privilege, nor does the recognition of a difference amount to inequality. I'm done. I want to thank all the political groups that are going to support these two laws, you are the majority in this House; I thank you very much. What is incomprehensible is the political position of those who will vote against or abstain, more importantly if there are those who are Basque representatives, who knowing - as they know - perfectly the nature and meaning of the Economic Concert and the quota take a position that is contrary to the interests of Basque citizens. Finally, I would like to thank all the technicians and technicians, officials and officials who have worked to achieve this agreement and to save the differences, and of course the outlaws and the Finance Adviser of the Basque Government, Mr Azpiazu, who is accompanying us here today and the Finance Minister, Mr Montoro. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Alba Goveli has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to start by greeting the Basque institutions represented here, egun on. Ladies and gentlemen, today I have the honour to represent my confederal group in this debate, to speak on behalf of a group that defends public services and equality in a multi-national state framework, and to do so in order to defend the adoption of the laws of the concert and the quota precisely in this framework, in that of plurinationality and in that of the defence of public services. In fact, we are going to defend its approval with different arguments and contrasts to those used by the PNV, which speaks a lot about rights with history, but without just quoting the citizens; that it confuses what is of all and of all with their partisan interest; that it even boasts of the good that it negotiates with something that is a right of citizens won at a time, the right to govern itself; a right won with the noble objective of living better, because even though this right has a lot of history - the first Economic Concert dates back to 1878 - it did not win history. Let's talk about the Economic Concert and the Basque Cup, but we could talk about financing any other community or territory. The principles that inspire our position are valid in this and in all cases. Moreover, we aspire to address the specifics of Euskadi with attention to our particularities, but questioning the rest of the state. To do this is not a coffee for everyone, as the PNV usually likes to say, is to apply a fundamental value to a progressive force that sincerely believes in another model of state. That value is no other than that of interterritorial solidarity; nothing that happens in the rest of the territories of the State is alien to Euskadi and what happens in Euskadi is not alien to the rest of the territories, because if there has been a huge mistake made by the PNV, and by extension by the governments of UCD in 1981, and those of the PSOE and the People's Party subsequently, it has been to address the question of the concert and the quota as if someone came to see what gets him to Madrid. Selling it for decades in this key has sown the storms that the lords of Citizens today unleash, and that at other times has also unleashed the People's Party for pure electoral interest. In this sense, the position of Citizens is still curious. In Catalonia, it defends the Constitution as a sacred thing; as soon as a bilateral tool like this appears in it, it seems a little allergic to it. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows a copy of the Spanish Constitution]] It would be interesting to ask you exactly what the quota is for some of you who are going to vote today than not; after listening to some intervention by throwing it to a large extent I think that more than one of you has not even looked at it. I shall then briefly derail the principles underlying the position taken by our confederal group on this issue. The first principle to be put on the table is that of respect for institutionality. Never again should anything as fundamental as the financing of the various territories be the subject of negotiations between two parties. [[Applauds]] Never again can anything that has been seen to generate comparative grievances, which can condition the development of an entire community, be seen as a currency of exchange for other things. That is why this negotiation to update the quota that PP and PNV have made, in exchange for budgetary support, when the Basque and central governments should have made it, is so damaging to the social and political legitimacy of the Economic Concert. It is harmful, both in the state and in the Euskadi itself, and I want to influence this, gentlemen of the PNV. Do not try to pose this as Euskadi vis-à-vis the State, it is not so and you know it; you know perfectly well that there are a growing number of Basques and Basques - by the way, according to some demoscopic studies they are already a majority - who defend our self-government and at the same time disapprove of their negotiations with the Rajoy government. The second principle is transparency. Never again a negotiation on territorial financing without input, black on white, all details, calculations and tax criteria. That's why we've been recording requests for information in Congress, in the Senate, in general meetings, in the Basque Parliament. Thanks to our initiative for the first time in thirty-six years a large part of the calculations has been published, but not all the information we had requested. That's why we're going to register a new batch of requests for information. And it seems that to some parties talking so much about historical rights brings them back to more 19th century ways of acting and not so much of the 21st century. The third principle I wish to point out is that of justice. It is enough to use autonomous financing as a battlefield between political parties to reward loyalty or punish turn-offs; it is enough to negotiate between a couple of parties what belongs to the entire citizenship of each territory. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are not just talking about Euskadi's funding, we must also address the funding of all communities. We cannot look elsewhere at the obvious underfunding of the Valencian Community, Aragon, Andalusia, La Rioja, Galicia, Catalonia and many others. [[Applauds]] In 2017 it is inexplicable, for example, that in Extremadura they have to manifest to have a train in condition. There are many unjust situations, but not for the territories in abstract, no; they are unjust for the citizens who live in the Valencian Community, in La Rioja, in Andalusia, in Baleares or in Extremadura, who are being denied the public services and the financing instruments they deserve. This leads me to raise the fourth political principle, that of putting the well-being of citizens above any other issue, and that is that when we talk about autonomous financing in the bottom we are talking about the resources that different communities have to offer quality services. To talk about territorial funding is to talk about citizen welfare. It is not an entelequia, it is not a football match between different territories; it is above all and above all the condition for citizens to enjoy, among others, public education and health commensurate with what they deserve. And you will wonder why we say this with so much emphasis. Because the main obstacle to good territorial financing today is not the Basque concert or quota, just as it wants us to believe Citizens; it is the ones who do not pay taxes, it is the great fortunes, which represent most of the tax fraud. [[Applauds]] The real 'bunny', Mr Rivera, has nothing to do with Euskadi: it is the tax reforms that reduce the tax burden on big companies and big fortunes. The 'cuponazo' are Montoro's fiscal amnesties and corruption, which outrage us and bleed us economically. [[Applauds]] Citizens' Lords, blaming a territory and a citizen, in this case a Basque, for injustice is their style, but it is simply false. They will have us in front of them to prevent us from facing territories with others on account of the funding that we all deserve without exception. As a Basque deputy of an alternative force, also in the territorial sphere, it seems to me fundamental to affirm in this rostrum that a plurinational State is not something to satisfy the political demands only of Catalans or Basques, it is a valuable and powerful tool for all the territories and communities of the State to have, for example, the financial and economic resources they need to be able to secure public services for their citizenship. In short, and with this end, our vote will be a yes to the amendment of the Law on Economic Concert and to the adoption of the five-year law of the quota, a deeply critical yes and from territorial responsibility, a responsibility that contrasts with which they are not demonstrating neither the PNV nor the PP nor of course Citizens. [[Laughter]] I will vote yes, and allow me to speak for a moment in the first person because as Basque I know first hand what the concert and the quota mean to us. Yes, because we defend a plurinational State, in which all territories and communities are treated with justice, because we believe in and respect bilateral instruments, and because we place the well-being of citizens and their right to quality public services above all else. We will vote yes on the rights and needs of Basque citizens, but also defending those of all the territories of the State. It's imperative that we get out of the old logic of what's mine. Let us ensure fair and sufficient funding for all. Today, on the day we update the concert and the Basque Cup, we must say loud and clear that it is inescapable to open the debate on the reform of the Organic Law on the Financing of the Autonomous Communities, and there we will be, in the first line, Basques, Andalusians, Galicians, extremists, Riojans, Aragons, Catalans, all of them defending a fair financing for all the territories, from the principle of plurinationality and mutual respect, where we are from solidarity and interterritorial cooperation. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u45	For the Socialist Group, Mr Saura García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the laws that are being debated today are part of our country's constitutional pact. Within this constitutional pact is one of the great pacts, the territorial pact, which aims at cohesion and loyalty with Spain in all directions. And above all, loyalty and cohesion are of the utmost importance now, which are the fundamental objectives, as I say, of that territorial pact and the constitutional pact. [[Applauds]] However, Mr Montoro, both the Basque quota and the financial sufficiency of the autonomous communities of the common system help the constitutional pact and the unity and cohesion of Spain. [[Applauds]] One thing and the other. Most Spaniards do not understand nor do we understand the unwillingness and lack of political will of their Government, which has not even raised its model of autonomous financing for these autonomous communities. They have not even proposed their model when they have been in breach of five years with these autonomous communities, four years with an absolute majority. Therefore, there is discrimination against the autonomous communities of common system, Mr Montoro. There is clear discrimination and there are some autonomous communities that are scandalously underfunded. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u47	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u48	Mr Montoro, another of the shortcomings is that Mr Rajoy committed himself to all the presidents of the autonomous communities almost a year ago to propose a new model of autonomous financing, but I insist that they have not put on the table even their point of view and much less their model. That is why, Mr Montoro, we ask you and demand that before the end of the year, all the autonomous communities of common system and also the political forces put on the table their point of view and the basis for this new model of autonomous financing. Ladies and gentlemen, for us the welfare state has much to do with the financial sufficiency of the autonomous communities of the common system. Our problem of convergence with Europe as regards the welfare state lies precisely in the basic public services of those autonomous communities which are underfunded. Mr. Montoro, we're willing to talk to you. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Party are ready to talk to you, but under two principles. The first principle is that all Spaniards, living where they live, have to be entitled to the same basic public services. The second premise is financial sufficiency. I will say this so that everyone can understand us, Mr Montoro: that the financing of basic public services is not subject to the vagaries of the economic cycle. Those are our two starting premises, and of course we also believe that there is a large outstanding subject in our country, which is the financing of local authorities. We understand that it is also time to open - and therefore close - the financing of the municipalities. I have listened carefully to what you said in your first and second speeches. In the first you spoke of promises, Mr Montoro. We have several problems with you, but there is one fundamental one: that we do not believe what we promise. We don't believe what he promises and we don't believe what he says until we actually see it done, because he already told us that he was going to change the methodology of applying the spending rule for the whole of administrations, and he hasn't. It has not applied that change in methodology. Therefore, Mr Montoro, until we see the commitments, we will not believe them. Ladies and gentlemen, this whole important debate has also been stifled by the hypocrisy and falsehoods of the Citizens' political group. [[Applauds]] And I try to explain myself briefly. His spokesman, his chairman, tells us that they are concerned about the financing of the Autonomous Communities of the Common System. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the two budget negotiations, in 2017 and 2018, they are at no time among their priorities that improves the autonomous funding of the common system communities. It has not been placed on the table anywhere: first incoherence. Secondly, the Citizens' Group approved the 2017 budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, you know him perfectly well. Well, in those budgets is the new Basque quota. [[Show a document]] In the general budgets of 2017 is the new Basque quota. [[Greetings.-Protests by Mr. Rivera Díaz]] But at no point, Mr Rivera, in the negotiation with your economic and political partners has it been put on the table that that could not be the case. They didn't say so, and they supported the 2017 budgets. But it doesn't end here. Mr Rivera said today that he has already agreed and concluded a budget agreement for 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, for 2018 the new Basque quota is also in the budgets. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: No.- Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández, Mrs. Melisa, makes negative gestures.]] Yeah, yeah, he is, too. In the negotiation with the People's Party at some point have they put on the table that is not the new Basque quota? No, no, no. Falsehood therefore; hypocrisy; hypocrisy! [[Applauds]] Hypocresis in election campaign. Mr Rivera, if your amendment to the whole is not successful today, I hope you will make an amendment to the entire budget for 2018, if you have a minimum of political coherence. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Susana Díaz!-Protests by Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández, Mrs. Melisa]] You tell us that you are, that you are for solidarity, but you support all the cuts of your political partners in the People's Party and all the public income cuts, which obviously go against the financing of the welfare state. I'm done, Madam President. Mr Rivera said this morning: We have not been allowed to introduce amendments to these laws. And I say, are you talking about the chairman of the Committee on Budgets? [[Applauds]] And then I said: No, because the chairman of the Committee on Budgets is of his political strength, it is Mr De la Torre, who vetoed that the opposition could table and debate more than a thousand amendments to the latest budgets, including some related to the autonomous financing of the autonomous communities of the common system. [[Applauds]] And he did it nightly, that's right; at night, practically in the morning. I'm done now, Madam President. In the case of the Citizens Party they are against all kinds of bilaterality, less one: their political and economic relationship with the People's Party. Thank you, Madam President. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, stood up.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u49	Mr Maroto Aranzábal has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Rivera, do you know who Nicholas of Michael is? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Yes]] No, I don't mean that Basque politician who was from the United Left. Do you know who he is? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes affirmative gestures]] No, no, I don't mean that Basque politician who was first of United Left and then of UPyD. I'm referring to that Basque politician who first went from United Left, then went from UPyD, and then you chose him as a citizen candidate for lehendakari in the last Basque elections. I'm remembering that. Do you remember? Because I do remember. [[Applauds]] I remember him and what he said. I remember him because he was doing interviews in the media back then. I was doing interviews like this. [[Shows a photocopy of a newspaper]] Do you remember interviews like this? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Read it, read it]] He then made speeches in which he made it clear that the position of Citizens was in favour of the Economic Concert and the calculation of the Basque quota that we voted here today. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u51	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u52	Yes, Mr. Rivera. But I was saying more, and I'm going to read it to you literally. Mr. De Miguel said: The modification of the Basque quota is not a demand that is on the street. It is not a cry neither a social concern for Basque society nor for Spanish society - I said then -. For Citizens the urgency and priority is what it is, and for Citizens the debate on the Basque quota is not. That's what his candidate said, and that's what his speech said the fourth hour that Citizens in the Basque Country spent, because then they took out zero deputies, and if I've seen you I don't remember, Mr. Rivera. And today you come here to say: where I said, I say Diego. Mr. Rivera, that's to bandits in politics, and when you make the speech looking at the sun to see how it heats better every day, that in politics has a name, and it's called opportunism. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we should all make an effort to explain in a simple way on the street what the Basque concert and quota, the Economic Concert and our quota are. The Basque financing system is simply a different financing system. It is a different funding system, first agreed between Basques, and then between Basques and the rest of Spanish, within the constitutional sphere. But, Mr Rivera - whenever I want to explain it to you, because this was not explained to you by Mr De Miguel and you are listening to Basque matters - the subject of the Basque Concert is a different system from hard and mature; it is a financing system that works when things are going well and when things are not going so well. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Basque Country too, the Basques have been through a difficult economic crisis, difficult, like the rest of Spain. And at that time the government, in the period 2012-2017, activated more than 250 billion euros in the FLA to give oxygen to the autonomous communities, to all, but not to the Basque Country, and there was never a voice from the Basque Country that said that the whole of Spain was being insolidary with Euskadi. And we didn't say it because we knew perfectly well that we also had a different, different system, which prevented, among other things, the financing of the FLA from coming to Euskadi. In the meantime, Mr Rivera - and you must not know this either - the Basque Government's powers include fiscal competition, and since there were no resources the Basque Government had to make a general increase in taxes, taxes that have led our community, to Euskadi, to my dear Basque land, to be the community of Spain where the most taxes are still paid today. [[Protests]] That is why one of the most important reflections made today by the People's Party of the Basque Country, which is in that rostrum listening attentively, is to ask the PNV to lower taxes on the Basques, who are tired of having that punishment now, in a different economic situation. [[Applauds]] We're not talking about all this here, ladies and gentlemen. That is also the Basque Concert, a pact supported and endorsed by the Constitution, Mr Rivera, and also in the 21st century it is a pact endorsed by the European Union. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows a copy of the Spanish Constitution]] All that is also the Basque concert. Mr Rivera, how many times have we heard you say that part of the problem that Catalans have is that there are politicians in Catalonia who only apply the laws that they like or do not find unfair? [[Protests by Mr. Rivera Díaz]] Mr Rivera, you cannot rise in the mornings and say that for Catalans you must apply the Constitution in its entirety, and then, in the afternoons, tell Basques that you can apply the part of the Constitution that you like, because the part that you do not like, for example, that of the Economic Concert, that you can vote against. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: Of course I do.]] Mr. Rivera, that's a political bandit and that in politics is called opportunism. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, you cannot say that you do not agree with the Economic Concert or with the way in which the Basque quota is calculated and, a few days before, you went to Valencia, as you did last Saturday - yes, Citizens in Valencia - to a demonstration together with, among other organizations, the CUP and Esquerra Republicana, to the cry of - see the videos -, I repeat, to the cry of: Tax sovereignty already or Give us the key to the box. [[Rumors]] [[Protests.-Various Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group: No, no, no]] [[Rumors.-Protests]] That was screaming in Valencia, Mr. Rivera. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rivera, for you to understand, you can't be on even days saying no to the Basque quota and odd days saying yes to some sort of Valencian quota. You can't, that's a bandit in politics, and that, in Christian paladin, is called opportunism. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rivera, you're the one with the headlines. [[Shows a photocopy of a cover of El Mundo newspaper]] I have another one, and it doesn't go very well standing here. We've seen him give bandages on other topics as well. This is about 155 of the Constitution. [[Protests]] We have heard you say, Mr Rivera, that in no case should 155 apply in Catalonia because it was to kill flies with cannons. [[Applauds]] Do you remember? [[Protests]] Only two newspaper publishers later came out running to immediately ask for the application of 155, as if there was no tomorrow. [[Applauds]] I wonder, Mr Rivera, if in a week we meet a newspaper publisher who says that the Canary Islands tax regime is not fair, will Melisa, his deputy spokesman, and the rest of the canaries be displeased? And you're also going to run off to say that the canarian regime is not supportive? Or on this occasion, as if you have parliamentary representation in the Canary Islands, will you endure the guy and be in constitutional defense, Mr Rivera? [[Laughs.-Applause.-Protests.]] [[Protests by Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández, Mrs. Melisa, while slapping her cheek]] Doing one thing and the opposite, depending on whether or not you have parliamentary representation, is simple and plain...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u53	One second, Mr. Maroto. Mrs Rodríguez, I call you to order for the expressions you are saying, but not only for that, but for the gestures you are making, which are gestures that insult the rest of the members of the House. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández, Ms. Melisa: Me?-Applause.-Protests]] Go on, Mr. Maroto.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let's hope we don't meet with that newspaper editor so we don't have to think about whether or not he's still supporting the canary regime. I was saying this because having a criterion depending on whether or not there is political representation in that territory, Mr Rivera, in politics, here in this House and on the street is called in a way, it is called opportunism. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Opportunity!-Very well!-Applause]] Mr Rivera, we have heard you here today but also on the street and in the media repeat several times that today we will approve here a privilege to pave the way for the 2018 budgets. Listen, and you haven't done the little thought, even if it's self-criticism one day, of thinking that in that contubernium, that conspiracy is also Podemos? Do you really believe, Mr Rivera, that Mr Iglesias is going to vote for a privilege of the Basque caste to help Rajoy approve the budgets? Do you really believe that? [[Several Members: Oh!]] [[Several Members: Yes!-Applause]] Do you really believe that? Because if you think that's fake...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u55	Mr. Maroto, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u56	Yeah. If you know that that's false and you're saying one thing knowing that it's not, that's also called opportunism. And I'm done, Madam President. Mr Rivera, you and you who so much like to look in the mirror of some Members of the Transition, do as they do because they also had this debate here, were up to the occasion and supported and endorsed the Basque Economic Concert knowing that you were right. Mr Rivera, that year was 1981 and the president of the government who voted in favour of the Basque quota with pride will sound to you: it was Adolfo Suárez. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stand up.- Mr Girauta Vidal, applause and stand up; Champion! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u57	Thank you very much. - PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENT OF LAW 42/2015 OF 5 OCTOBER, REFORM OF LAW 1/2000, OF 7 JANUARY, OF CIVIL JUDGMENT, TO GUARANTEE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF TAX MINISTER COMMUNICATION ACTS. [[File number 122/000129]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u58	Next, it is appropriate to discuss the direct and read-only handling of the proposed law amending Law 42/2015 of 5 October amending Law 1/2000 of 7 January on Civil Prosecution, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the communication acts of the prosecutor's office. Four amendments have been tabled to the wording of this bill. For the defence of your amendments and to stand in relation to the rest, I have the floor, first of all, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u59	Thank you very much, President. We are presenting an amendment in line with what we have at the time at the rostrum in the setting of a position, but we are going to withdraw it in search of consensus and we will adhere to the one tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is Amendment No 4. We trust that this extension that we give to the prosecutor's office will bring it up to date and be notified, like the rest of the legal operators, the next working day for such a communication to take place, thus bringing this derogation system to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u60	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. A few days ago, barely two weeks ago, we could read in the media this headline: 'The prosecutors rebel against the digital plan of Justice: 'It is impossible to work like this''. 'Something as simple as checking a court decision before it took us 30 seconds on paper. Now in digital it takes seven minutes. The system is slow and deficient, it's a chaff.' This is the textual expression of a vowel of the Valladolid Fiscal and Fiscal Council. It is still published today, on the website of the Ministry of Justice, this advertising referring to the digital tax project. It says: The technological leap to a digital management system. Since 2015, the Attorney-General's Office and the Ministry of Justice have been working intensively to achieve the necessary digital transformation in prosecution offices and that they can provide a more agile and efficient public service. [[The lady]] Today we are going to approve of putting all these ambitions and all this digital taxation project on hold by the Government, and the first thing that shows is a failure in this process of technological modernization, of digitisation of justice, absolutely essential for having a public justice service up to the twenty-first century. That is why this proposal for a law has been brought to us today. This bill calls for a deadline that the same government in the previous parliamentary term, in particular in October 2015, set at two years and now we are asked to extend that deadline three more years and, if the Socialist Party's amendment finally succeeds - as it seems to be happening - for two more years. We believe that the process of modernising justice cannot be suspended during this time. We believe that we cannot be so unambitious, we believe that a quality public justice service as citizens deserve to work with absolute intensity in this technological transformation. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u62	Wait a minute, Mr. Prendes. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u63	Thank you very much. And since we do not want to put these ambitions on hold, we have tabled an amendment. Firstly, because we do not want to add any more obstacles or difficulties to the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office. We recognize what the situation is, we work with realism, not with opportunism, but with realism; we work with absolute realism and, therefore, we are willing to admit that, after this failure, it is about incorporating some solution from the normative point of view that it has to delay the entry into force of this digital taxation. Recognizing this, as I said before, we are not willing to transform our justice. That is why we have tabled an amendment that simply says that this full entry into force of section 151.2 of the Civil Prosecution Act should be extended to one year. We think that's enough. And it has to be enough, among other things, because, as you know, in this Congress we are dealing with what is called a national pact for justice, we are working with the ambition of achieving that pact that modernises justice, a pact among all, and what we do not think is received is that when within that pact we are seeing proposals for modernization, incorporating a timetable, trying to incorporate concrete commitments, we decafeinate it by the normative means and leave it in rubber water. That is why it seems to us that a year has to be long enough. And it has to be because of an issue that I referred to in the debate. We are not dealing with anything; we are dealing with a basic and essential principle in every normal procedural, which is the principle of equality of the parties, of equal arms. I already know that it is not the prosecutors, that it is not the prosecutor's office that is requesting this privilege because yes or because it wants a differential treatment. I know that it is the Administration that has to facilitate these material and technological means, it is the Executive Power, and it is its failure that will lead us to approve this rule. I know. But I also know that the suspension of that principle which we believe to be fundamental cannot be maintained for so long, and although the proviso in our procedural rules is well known, we do not have to maintain it and I say to you that this basic and essential principle to us seems to us to involve acting with absolute speed. It cannot be that a notification takes effect on the day following its notification for prosecutors, social security lawyers, state lawyers, for all legal operators, and let us continue to maintain the exception that this effect does not occur in the prosecution until after ten calendar days. To put that principle on hold, ladies and gentlemen, requires us to act with absolute speed, putting the necessary means at the disposal of the prosecutor's office so that they can work in defence of legality with comfort and speed. We will therefore vote in favour of the amendment which we have tabled, in which, in recognition of the situation in fact, we propose the delay of one more year - not more - and we will vote against the amendment which proposes to take it two years and the rest of the amendments, which also seems to us to distort in some way not only the subject of the deadline but also the calculation and to add a greater confusion to that which already exists at the moment. That's our position. We would like the Government to have ambition, the government group to have ambition, which has submitted this bill, and to understand that the one-year deadline should be sufficient to provide the means. If that is not the case, what we will do will be to abstain. As I have already explained, we cannot support these other amendments because what we are not going to lower is of course our ambition to modernise the late administration of justice that we have in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Prendes. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sixto Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u65	Thank you, Madam President. I rise to the rostrum to defend the amendment that I announced in my speech last Tuesday, when we admitted to the process of this bill of the People's Party, an amendment that consists in extending only one more year, until 1 January 2019, the transitional period initially of two years and in reducing from ten calendar days to five working days the grace period that the prosecutor has when assuming his notifications. My parliamentary group is going to keep the amendment. In the end we agreed with the Basque Group in the literal tenor of the amendment, but the Basque Group withdraws it and we will maintain it. We do not understand that an initial period of two years will end up extending again two years; the logical thing would be to reduce it over time, because if not in the end the message that we are sending to the prosecution and the Ministry of Justice is that nothing happens, everything can continue to be the same, there is no need to reorganize what was mentioned in the report of the Fiscal Council on the Telematics Communications Decree, there is no need to address it. For what? For this reason, this House calmly gives them two more years of extension; the agreement is already closed between the Socialist Party and the People's Party. And, ladies and gentlemen, if these two years pass and we remain exactly the same - which can happen perfectly - nothing will happen, another bill will be brought back to extend the deadlines again. We understand that the message that has to come out of this House today must be clear, at best, an extension of more than a year, and also with a cut of the ten calendar days to five working days which, as you will understand and know perfectly, remain in seven calendar days. That would send a clear message to the Ministry of Justice, the judiciary, about the need for its reorganization and adaptation to the reality of other legal operators. That is what we would like to see here today in this House and not what we are going to see, which is that old vices, old customs and old stories that should be banished finally grow. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto Iglesias. For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Pursuant to Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure, we are in a one-reading whole debate. It is a very concrete debate because it is not really the law in its normative body strictly considered what we are discussing today, but simply the game of transitional provision IV by which the Government, in Law 42/2015, which amended the Civil Prosecution Act in relation to acts of communication, called for an extension. This transitional provision IV set it on 1 January 2018 and established that the mechanism of 151.2 of the Civil Prosecution Act - i.e., when the notification to the prosecutor's office is understood to be accredited or made - was calculated at 10 days. Why? Because they were aware of the difficulty of putting all the technological mechanisms in place so that this reality of Article 151 would be effective. At this same plenary session, in Tuesday's session, he said that when the government, and especially the ministerial department of Justice, addressed the issues of digital modernization, Peter's credibility in Peter's fable and the wolf, that is, no one believed him. And that is precisely why our two-year amendment deserves justification. We have heard the PNV, and I thank you for your reconsideration and acceptance of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's amendment to establish a two-year extension. I have listened attentively to the fellow citizens, Mr Prendes, and the representative of the Confederal Group of Podemos how with good arguments, although I believe that not enough, they set other parameters. Citizens, one year, and Podemos, one year, and he also touched the ten-day deadline by lowering it to five, as he said to them: hurry up, tax lords. This is not the game, this is not the issue, it is not a problem with the organization of the prosecution; it is a mechanism to put the technical elements and that such notification or communication act can be made. I therefore believe that we would be doing a little bit of a favor to the situation if we were to reach that 151.2 deadline. Adhering to the deadline, Mr Prendes told us - and I am glad that today we do share the issue of equality of parties in the process - that is enough with one year. Why? My group proposes two, for a very simple reason. Almost because of the arguments he has used, and I do not want to repeat again that concept - which we have heard a moment ago with altisonance - of opportunism to the extent, because the time limit of deficiency was two, the moratorium was two. Right. And you can say that the Socialist Group asked for a year of extension only for the Civil Registration Act. Yes, but the Civil Registration Act was passed in 2011 and was passed at the end of 2015. But, above all, because we are not going to participate in the chaos of the timely ministerial department. Why? Because, as I said, it is the Fiscal Council that asks the ministry, in the October 25 report, to stop because digital computerization is chaos. It is not a chaos 151, no, but the basic computerization of the Fiscal Office; it is a chaos the use of secure mail that is Lexnet; it is a chaos the implementation of the Digital Civil Registry. So chaos is total. And if the ministry had had courage, had made a bill, we could have brought a report from the Fiscal Council that would have illustrated to us the times and the cadence. But since he has not done so, he has preferred to use the parliamentary group, by virtue - legitimate, I insist, as I said the other day - of the use of the bill, in order not to know what the Fiscal Council says. But everything is known today and the Fiscal Council is unanimously on fire, including the public prosecutor, who is sadly missing. Everyone said to stop. What does it make sense, Mr. Prendes, Mr. Sixto, to say a year? It seems to me that it is much more coherent to say two years, given the chaos in which the Ministry of Justice has plunged us into all digital modernization. But let us be vigilant, as we told them when we reformed and postponed the entry into force of the Civil Registry Act, because only from there can we effectively control the Government's actions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Campo Moreno. I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u69	Thank you, Madam President. After Mr Campo's speech, what brings us here, what the aim is and what the debate is. I am in favour of the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on the amendments tabled, one of which has been withdrawn by Mr Legarda. There are three amendments which remain alive and our position is to accept the reduction of the two-year extension proposed by the Socialist Group. Ladies and gentlemen, although Mr Campo speaks of chaos, there is no such chaos; although Mr Prendes says that this means the suspension of a whole project of modernisation and digitisation, there is no such suspension. I should not remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that at the end of 2015 general elections were held, that in July 2016 new general elections were held, that the Government was constituted in December 2016 and that the extension of this two-year law of 2015 enters into that fork of validity in office, if I may say so. Consequently, it is not an example of any chaos, but of factual circumstances that may occur at any time. We have never disguised ourselves as asking for an extension, but not for the digitization process, but for the process of digitization of justice to be done as best as possible, so that now that new applications are being implemented, that it is possible to incorporate new hardware, that it is possible to incorporate new resources where it can be more sensitive because the differences of territorial management systems are more accused, as happens in the prosecution, let us provide the citizens with security and not tear our clothes afterwards. It's not unequal weapons, Mr. Prendes. I think it's clear, but it's no big deal if we point it out here; it's not true. And let us not build political arguments about half truths and falsehoods. That's not true. This means allowing the responsible momentum of the process of digitizing justice to continue, which is good for all. I know that you are in your role saying that things are not going well, but Mr Campo knows Law 18/2011 on technological modernization better than anyone else, and at that time ended a period of two mandates of socialist government: final parliamentary term and advance election. Then let us not talk about where the slowness is and what steps have not been taken. Let's look positive. They know that there is no application or perfect electronic system; I simply send them to Google. I will not mention scientific appointments, although I could do so; go to Google and look for a hundred big problems - ten big problems, if you want to go faster - of computer applications. Let us be positive and do modern justice. Let us cooperate and listen to the professionals, and the prosecutors tell us that that would help as the reorganization is adapted and provided with the necessary means to provide - here, yes - territorial equality to the prosecutors, who operate differently, as you well know, with the professionals. We will therefore accept the two-year deadline. It can even end in less time to make processing comfortable, but that makes us look to the future, makes us work together and that's what we come here for. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moro Almaraz. At the end of the debate, we shall suspend the plenary session for five minutes and immediately after that we shall proceed to the vote. [[Pausa. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. We begin the voting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u72	Voting for proposals for legislation. Firstly, the proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for the creation of an independent agency that adds up to the functions of the High Educational Inspectorate, the Agency of the High Educational Inspectorate. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 325 plus 3 telematics votes, 328; in favour, 160 plus 1 telematics vote, 161; against, 165 plus 2 telematics votes, 167.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u73	It's rejected. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u74	No legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the Government to adopt by decree-law, in the case of budgetary extension, an increase of at least 200 million to comply with the budgetary agreements of the State Pact on Gender Violence. We are voting in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 326 votes cast; 326 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u75	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the agreement to strengthen the measures of the High Educational Inspectorate. [[File number 162/000481]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u76	No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the agreement to strengthen the measures of the High Educational Inspectorate. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 160 against, 166 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u77	It's rejected. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u78	Motion following urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the actions carried out by the Government to study alternatives aimed at the recovery of the naval base of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria for citizen use. [[Mr. Quevedo]] The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 318 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u79	It's approved. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON GOVERNMENT POLICY IN THE FISCAL FRAUD, INTERNATIONAL TAX COOPERATION AND MEASURES AGAINST TAX PARADIS. [[File number 173/000063]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u80	Motion for an urgent appeal by the Socialist Group on the Government's policy on combating tax fraud, international tax cooperation and measures against tax havens. We shall vote on it separately, by points. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 322 against, 1 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u81	It was adopted. Point 5 of the same motion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 193 against, 129 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u82	It was adopted. I'll take the dots. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 325 against, 2 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u83	They are approved. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament may, in common, on the ratification of the revised European Social Charter, as well as the Protocol on Collective Complaints of 1995. [[File number 173/000064]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u84	Motion following urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the ratification of the revised European Social Charter, as well as of the collective complaints protocol of 1995. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 328.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u85	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u86	We are now voting for the direct and single reading of legislative initiatives. Bill amending Act No. 12/2002 of 23 May 2002 approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Amendment to the full refund submitted to the bill amending Act No. 12/2002 of 23 May 2002 approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 plus 3 telematics votes, 331; 32 plus 1 telematics vote, 33; 296 plus 2 telematics votes, 298.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u87	The amendment is rejected in its entirety. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u88	We will vote on the entire bill amending Act No. 12/2002 of 23 May 2002 approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country for a single reading. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 327 plus 3 telematics votes, 330; in favour, 292 plus 2 telematics votes, 294; against, 35 plus 1 telematics vote, 36.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u89	The bill was adopted, which would be referred to the Senate. - DRAFT LAW APPROVING THE METHODOLOGY FOR THE REPORTING OF THE COUPLE OF THE VASCO COUNTRY FOR THE FIVE YEAR 2017-2021. [[File number 121/000011]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u90	Bill approving the methodology for marking the Basque Country quota for the five-year period 2017-2021. Amendment to the full refund submitted to the bill approving the methodology for marking the Basque Country quota for that five-year period. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 plus 3 telematics votes, 331; 31 plus 1 telematics vote, 32; 296 plus 2 telematics votes, 298; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u91	The amendment is rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u92	Overall vote of the bill approving the methodology for marking the Basque Country quota for the five-year period 2017-2021, for processing in one reading. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus 3 telematics votes, 330; 290 plus 2 telematics votes, 292; against 35 plus 1 telematics vote, 36; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u93	The bill was adopted, which would be referred to the Senate. - PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENT OF LAW 42/2015 OF 5 OCTOBER, REFORM OF LAW 1/2000, OF 7 JANUARY, OF CIVIL JUDGMENT, TO GUARANTEE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF TAX MINISTER COMMUNICATION ACTS. [[File number 122/000129]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u94	Proposal for a law amending Act No. 42/2015 of 5 October 2015 amending Act No. 1/2000 of 7 January 2015 on civil prosecution, to ensure the effectiveness of the communication acts of the prosecutor's office. We shall vote on the amendments first. Amendment to the joint text of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, which is Amendment 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 36 against, 220 abstentions, 72.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u95	It's rejected. Amendment to the joint text of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, which is Amendment 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 65 against, 248 abstentions, 15.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u96	It's rejected. Amendment to the joint text of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is Amendment 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 215 against, 33 abstentions, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u97	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u98	Overall vote on the proposed law amending Act No. 42/2015 of 5 October 2015 amending Act No. 1/2000 of 7 January 2015 on civil prosecution in order to ensure the effectiveness of the communication acts of the prosecutor's office, for single reading. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 328 plus 2 telematics votes, 330; in favour, 216 plus 1 telematics vote, 217; abstentions, 112 plus 1 telematics vote, 113.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-23-CD171123.u99	The proposed law amending Act No. 42/2015 of 5 October 2015 amending Act No. 1/2000 of 7 January 2015 on civil prosecution was adopted to ensure the effectiveness of the communications of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which would be referred to the Senate. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was eleven and forty-five minutes in the morning.
