ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We begin with questions to the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Hernando Vera, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u2	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President of the Government, the United Kingdom has officially launched its exit from the European Union. It has opted for the so-called hard Brexit and, in our view, the Government has an obligation to combine the defence of the European Union's interests with the interests of Spain, since we have certain specific problems. You started by subtracting transcendence from Brexit to then filter out serious consequences, even you came to say: We don't know what the relationship is going to be in the end if Brexit is consumed. Well, you have begun to consummate yourself and I ask you how you are going to deal with it, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u3	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Government, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. I am going to refer to the fundamentals because, as you fully understand, it is impossible to dispatch in two and a half minutes a question of the importance of this. The priority objectives will be two. First, people's rights. We want to preserve the rights of the Spaniards living in the United Kingdom, also those of the British who do so in Spain, and to give them certainty, as well as to the companies that invest and trade with the United Kingdom. That's the first big target. The second major objective is that the withdrawal agreement and the new framework for future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom will preserve the intensity of today's relations for the benefit of citizens. Therefore, the basic objective is that this whole operation - which I do not share, as you know - does not harm people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u6	Mr President, in the view of the Socialists, we must set three benchmarks in this negotiation. The first is to strengthen European negotiators by not currently entering into bilateral negotiations. The second is that it is clear to the United Kingdom that you cannot stand one foot inside and the other outside, which seems to me to be a good message for both Eurosceptics and adventurers who want to start similar paths. The third is brexit is brexit and therefore you cannot be on either side of the table. First the conditions of departure are negotiated and in the future the new relationship is negotiated; or else, first it goes out the door and then it is called again. Among our priorities we agree on the Spanish workers and students who live in the UK and who are currently very concerned, but we must also be sensitive to the concerns of the British who are here and who want to continue living with each other. With regard to Gibraltar, we must ask for consistency between the drivers of the Brexit and all its consequences; we must maintain our historical demands - of course, yes - but not forget the workers and companies in the Gibraltar Field; act intelligently through dialogue and not go into rough verbal escalations and seize this opportunity, this difficult historical juncture to reaffirm our European convictions. The European Union project is surely the most important, most interesting and most risky political project of the last century. Let us take back that spirit of pioneers that we celebrated the other day in Rome and make it a country. On that table we are all sitting, Mr President, do not act on your own because it will weaken the negotiating position of Spain and what we have to do right now is reaffirm our European and European convictions and defend it with the strength of all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u7	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. As a matter of substance, I agree with your intervention, but I will make a few clarifications. Here there are procedural issues, which are important even if they are procedural, and substantive issues. In the procedural topics we will handle with the following parameters. First, negotiation must respect the law as the European Union is a community of law. Secondly, the European Union will be negotiating in a bloc, as you asked, there will be no individual negotiations, and we will therefore be on what Mr Barnier says on behalf of the Commission, but in the Council we will be in favour, as it could not be otherwise. Thirdly, I also agree with what you have just said about the first negotiation of the terms of the withdrawal and then we will start talking about the future relationship. In the end, all this will be a package, that is, nothing is agreed until everything is remembered. On the substantive issues, in the future relationship, what I would like to see is a comprehensive and deep free trade agreement, as Mr Tusk's guidelines say, and also agreements on security, defence, the fight against terrorism and organised crime. I also agree that Europe must continue, as was said in Rome, with the integration process. It is the most important political project that has been carried out in centuries on our continent and I agree that we must do these things together in this House. I therefore announce that we will inform Parliament and all of you whenever we are asked to do so and that any person who is willing to make any contribution in the interests of the general interests of Spain will, of course, take it into account. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - DEPUTED DON GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DO YOU THINK THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT RESPONSES THE NEEDS OF THE PEOPLE OF CATALUNE? [[File number 180/00214]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u9	He also asked the President of the Government of Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u10	Thank you very much, President. Mr. President, Mr. Rajoy, I'll make it easy for you. Now that you are going to Barcelona and, fortunately, no longer doing so to beg for signatures against Catalan laws, such as the Statute of Autonomy, do you believe that the Spanish Government adequately meets the needs of the people of Catalonia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u11	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Government, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u12	Thank you very much for your question, Mr. Rufián. It is, of course, our intention and I believe that we are taking steps in the right direction. The first need and the first major objective was job creation. Gradually, the jobs lost during the economic crisis we have experienced are being recovered. Yesterday there were, as you know, very positive data in the whole of Spain and also in Catalonia. The second major objective was to maintain the major basic public services, especially health, education and care for people. Therefore, in a situation of extreme difficulty for the Generalitat and others, we have put in place liquidity instruments such as the FLA and the Fund for payment to suppliers, which have served to pay those who did not charge the services provided to the Generalitat and also to maintain the essential public services. We continue public investment in difficult times. A slightly better time is now coming, raising revenue by improving economic activity has increased and we will therefore continue to invest in infrastructure. We have already raised a debate on autonomous financing and it would be good for the Government of the Government of Catalonia to participate in it. And on Friday we specified something that had been pending for a long time, which was to turn the interims into fixed ones after passing the corresponding tests. It affects 30,000 people in Catalonia. I therefore believe that the most important issues for the citizens have tried to address them and we will continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u14	The truth is that the only good thing you have, Mr President, is that you are predictable. It's bad news all that he's saying, more than anything because it heals, it all heals. To believe that employment goes well in Catalonia and in the rest of the Spanish state is cured in the queue of unemployment, especially. To believe that to satisfy the people of Catalonia is to make a Mediterranean corridor that passes through Madrid is cured, above all it is cured reading. To believe that satisfying the people of Catalonia is to pay their friend Florentino Pérez 1,350 million euros for the Castor is cured, not having according to which friends. To believe that satisfying the people of Catalonia is to speak continuously with their white mark, Citizens, of the real Catalonia, when among all of you gather a single mayorship, it heals, ceasing to be residual parties in Catalonia. To believe that the people of Catalonia are satisfied by throwing him at the head of the Constitutional Court is cured, no longer sending militants to its presidency. To believe that the people of Catalonia are satisfied by making flaming AVE stations in populations of 100 inhabitants is cured, it is cured by taking a closeness in Catalonia any day, at any time, in any village. I invite you, I invite you that I am Catalan, nothing happens, just like you become independentist. In short, Mr Rajoy, to be clear, the will of the people of Catalonia is not bought, the will of 80% of the people of Catalonia is not bought, neither with pious lies nor with coloured crystals. I'll see you at the polls. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u15	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. I really don't have much to say to you, Mr. Rufián, with absolute frankness. [[Laughter]] If anything, I think it confuses your needs with those of everyone and that is very dangerous because you run the serious risk of being out of reality. Trying to work out of an economic crisis; trying to create jobs after the massive destruction of jobs that took place during five years of crisis; trying to maintain basic public services such as health, education and social services; trying to make, in fact, the Mediterranean corridor or trying to fix the raffles are issues that matter to people. You probably don't care and that's why you don't ask questions about those matters. I respect you, but I beg you to respect me too and admit that I can say - and some reason I can have, or never, you never know - that it is important to create jobs, that people do well, that public services work well, that we can make infrastructure and that the economy is more competitive, because this is how we meet people's needs... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS THE OPINION OF HIS GOVERNMENT ON THE CONNECTION OF THE OFFICIAL DECLARATION OF BREXIT BY THE UNITED KINGDOM? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00222]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u18	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, from the Basque Parliamentary Group, also to the President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u19	Mr. President, good morning. I ask you about the content and forms of the British letter communicating the beginning of the Brexit. On the same day, the Foreign Minister appeared in the Commission, but the truth is that he did not make much clear to us. He said that the future relationship with the United Kingdom could no longer be the same, but at the same time he insisted that the treatment and situation of citizens should remain the same as now. He said that the future expectations of the citizens of both countries should be maintained. He commented that the entry and movement of people had to be as simple as now, that trade should not be damaged and should be facilitated in terms very similar to those of today. He literally said that the four freedoms should be maintained. Therefore, sincerely, if it is not going to be the same, but those four freedoms have to be maintained, we do not understand what the exact position of the State is. Mrs May's letter had a sweet tone at the beginning, but in speaking of people she did not take into account the Lords' recommendation to assert their national rights before presenting it, nor did it distinguish the area of negotiation from the subsequent relationship. Frankly, what surprised me, despite the fact that it is now sorghum, is the mix between economy and security, because it was stated - literally - that if we do not get a good trade agreement, our cooperation in the fight against crime and security will be resented. You will agree with me that this is a delicate, very important moment in terms of security throughout Europe and throughout the world, where everyone needs to work together. Honestly, I was surprised by that tone and that mix. I am sure that you do not understand security in those terms, but quite the contrary, in a collaboration above all and among all the security forces. This also affects the security forces within the State, so it must be applied not only to the police in the various countries, but also internally. Ertzaintza is an integral police force and must therefore be a Schengen police force. It must have all the European information, but also participate in European forums. That would respond to the institutional framework, if you don't want to play with security. It is very important to us and we expect a positive response, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. This is a question that also concerns the Brexit, but different from what Mr Hernando has asked me. Mr Esteban asked what my opinion is on the letter by formally notifying the European Union's withdrawal agreement by the United Kingdom. I can't go into all the details, but I'd like to tell you the following. There are positive parts to the letter and there are other parts that we are going to say that they do not seem so positive to me. Positive parts, the general tone wants to be constructive, the objective of defending the rights of people - which is a priority for me and capital - is reflected in the document, the need for the process to be fair and orderly - it is common sense - and the United Kingdom also collects and sets itself the will to maintain good economic and security relations in the future. What I don't think is so positive is the following. First, the very fact of leaving the European Union. I have said it, many people have said it and, logically, that means, as the Foreign Minister you have just mentioned now, that the relationship is no longer going to be the same. The four freedoms to which you have referred will continue to apply with the countries that we are part of the European Union but not with the United Kingdom. Secondly, I do not agree with the claim contained in the letter to negotiate in parallel the withdrawal and the future relationship. No, first the withdrawal and then we'll talk about the future relationship. Thirdly, I do not think it is a good thing that you mentioned in your speech, that reference to the fact that the fight against crime and terrorism could be weakened if certain requirements are not met. I hope this doesn't happen. I have to understand that you and I do not understand this well, because I believe that there will always be total and absolute cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crime. He has commented on the issue of Ertzaintza. The representation of Spain before the various international bodies is the responsibility of the State, as, you know, says the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country and the Constitution itself. In any case, they have access to international information of police interest and the Ertzaintza's actions with police forces from other countries are normally carried out. Having said that, I believe that, taking into account the fit, legal support and competitive support, which are fundamental to ensuring the success and effectiveness of the coordination of police actions, we can discuss this point in order to try among all to be more effective in the fight against terrorism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u22	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs ISABEL RODRIGUEZ GARCIA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE SEMINAR Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: DOES YOU THINK OF IMPLEMENTING THE COMPLIANCE BY THE NATIONAL PATRIMONY ADMINISTRATION COUNCIL OF THE JUDICIAL RESOLUTIONS RELATING TO THE EXECUTION OF CASES IN THE VALUE OF THE CHAIRS? ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[File number 180/00224]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u23	Question to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Mrs Isabel Rodríguez García of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u24	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, I am telling this story, which you know, so that the rest of the House and the rest of the Spanish and Spanish who listen to us may know it. It's the story of a family, of a girl her parents told that her grandparents and her grandfather had been killed in the Civil War. This family took flowers to a mass grave for sixty years. Then, with the approval of the Historical Memory Act, they discovered that the bodies of their relatives were not under that pit and worked and investigated and discovered that they were in the Valley of the Fallen. They've known they've been there for five years, but they don't have anywhere to put those flowers. They went to justice to give dignity to the remains of their grandparents and to give tranquillity to their father, who is now ninety-two years old; justice gave them reason. Today she listens to you from the rostrum and expects an answer from you, who is the competent person of the Administration to comply with that judicial decision, which has, by the way, been binding for a year. That's the answer we're waiting for. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u25	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Board of Directors of National Heritage, which, as you know, is an interinstitutional body - also constituted by consensus - is doing everything in its power to comply with that voluntary jurisdiction file for which you ask me. The order of the Court of First Instance No. 2 of San Lorenzo de El Escorial, in fact, recognized the right to the dignified burial of those people who can - he says - highly likely find themselves in the Valley of the Fallen. However, he warned of a number of difficulties and limitations: that access to the third floor of the crypt where the remains may be, that these remains can be moved - he says - by guaranteeing their integrity, their respect and their memory, and that the affected columbars can be identified and DNA tests practiced. Heritage tried to commit these actions, but there was opposition from third parties. He went to court and he told National Heritage that he was not interested and, as you know well, as a voluntary jurisdiction file cannot be executed. What has National Heritage done to continue with this theme? Request a report from the State Advocate. We have two reports which we will send to the families and which advise us - and this is what we are analysing Heritage - to collect a report from the Institute of Construction Sciences Eduardo Torroja to state on the feasibility of access and, if possible, on the works necessary to arrive. If this opinion is yes and could be reached, an opinion should be requested from the Forensic Medical Council to rule on the procedure for locating, identifying and exhuming remains and the possibility of DNA testing. Therefore, National Heritage is doing everything in its hand in collaboration with the State Advocate and we hope to be able to do so also with the help of all those who have something to say in this matter. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u28	We understand the difficulty of the case, Vice President, and of the very state in which you are, but you will recognize that time for that family and for many others is gold. With the Historical Memory Act we wanted to respond to this family and many others who have their dead in the Valley and the families who have them in the counties. It is not a question of looking back, nor do I intend to touch them on how this law has been implemented or how it has not been implemented in recent years, but I do ask you to look forward and work to respond to these and so many families who need institutional support to recognize their personal history and with that also the dignity of our country. That is why from the Socialist Group we ask you to apply the Historical Memory Act effectively, to provide it with sufficient budget to make it a reality the research work on the pits that are being carried out in our country and I also ask you to work on the meaning of the Valley of the Fallen so that it is not a symbol of Francoist exaltation, but a symbol of the twinning of our society, which is the symbol of all. It will recognize me that for that to happen it is necessary that some remains also come out of there; I mean the remains of the dictator, and that has been approved by this House and recommended by the committee of experts as well. I hope that among all of us we can get it so that it's really a symbol of rendezvous... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u29	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is a serious and complex matter. So much so that since 1980 there have been no exhumations in the Valley of the Fallen and you ruled for twenty-one years. That it is a serious and complex matter is evident from the fact that the Government of Zapatero commissioned a report from Mr Jáuregui, who delivered at the last moment and without achieving the consensus he intended, especially with regard to the other two people you asked about and who were not the subject of your question. That it is very complex also reveals the expert reports that Mr. Jáuregui himself requested and that they say that the deterioration of the crypts and the columbars makes practically impossible... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u31	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE RULE OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORDER IN VENEZUELA? [[File number 180/00230]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u32	Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u33	Thank you, President. Vice-President, in this House we have spoken when there has been crisis in brotherly Ibero-American countries, such as Cuba, such as Colombia, but also, as you know, this past week the extreme events that have suffered in Venezuela also deserve a firm position of the Government of Spain. I must say, Vice-President, that, just as we agree on the defence of democratic values, I sincerely believe that the position of the Foreign Minister of the Government has been lukewarm and insufficient in this case. That is why I ask you, Vice-President, and the Government in general, whether you intend to act with caution and at the same time with firmness; it is not incompatible to be cautious with being firm. There are 200,000 Spaniards in Venezuela and 200,000 Venezuelans here, companies in that country, we are observer members of the Organization of American States and at the same time we constitute the Ibero-American countries, together with Portugal, in Europe. I'm asking you, Madam Vice President. Is the government prepared to lead in a European Council together with the rest of the foreign ministers a common position of Europe in the face of the extremely serious situation in Venezuela? Also, is the Government, as an observer of the Organization of American States, prepared to call for the application of the democratic charter, to cooperate with the diplomacy of the rest of the countries so that it can be done? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u34	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rivera, the Government is seriously concerned about the constitutional crisis in Venezuela. The rulings of the Supreme Court of 28 and 29 March are further compromising democracy and the rule of law in that country by imposing parliamentary immunity and the powers of the National Assembly. I would like to say that it is not new, that it is an escalation that the Government has of course denounced since its origins because the kidnapping of Parliament has been accompanied by the repeated violation of human rights and the existence of political prisoners and, above all, by the serious humanitarian and social deterioration that the destitution is causing in Venezuela. The international community - and this is very important - is reacting decisively and almost unanimously; that almost unanimity that we are not achieving in this House. Firstly, the Council for Foreign Affairs of the European Union, at the request of Spain, has pointed out that this international pressure must be reinforced. The OAS is talking about self-attack and even Mercosur's emergency statement is very significant, where, having also suspended Venezuela, they are demanding that democracy be returned to that land. The Government will, of course, exercise its leadership, it has always done so, we will demand that Parliament be reinstated in its full powers, we will demand that all political prisoners be released and we will demand that the electoral calendar be complied with with with with all guarantees. That's how we'll do it, Mr. Rivera. And let me tell you that if you want to talk about tibia and profiles, the first one to show profile on this issue was the President of the Government of Spain, Mr Rajoy, who was the first head of government to receive Mrs Tintori. Then others came, including you, but the first person to receive the woman from that political prisoner in our country and the rest of the world was the President of the Government. I believe it highlights the leadership that this parliamentary group and this Government are taking. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u36	Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, the others are not presidents of the Government and we cannot welcome anyone as president of the Government. [[Rumors]] In any case, this is not a competition, Madam Vice President, don't get nervous. We want a firm position of the Government. It is very good to put a tweet and say that it is not beneficial for Venezuela what has happened, as Minister Dastis said, it is very good, but it must be blunt and you have spoken the word self-throwing. That is what we would have liked to hear from the Government of Spain and not to mention that it is not beneficial for Venezuela. In any case, competition is not because it is hard, but because it is because it seeks solutions. I ask the Government that, as in the position of Cuba in its day the Government of the People's Party of Spain led a common position of the European Council for the crisis in Cuba, let us also do so now with a brother country like Venezuela. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Venezuela was a country that received with open arms to the Spaniards, a people that has undoubtedly helped Spain and a brotherhood that goes beyond purely economic, cultural and other ties. That is why, Vice-President, I ask you to act, that I hope that foreign policy will not be marked by Mr Zapatero, that it is clear that the dialogue has failed and that we call for an electoral calendar, the exit of political prisoners, because there is no dialogue if people are imprisoned, and a humanitarian channel for Venezuela. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u38	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am grateful, Mr Rivera, that you have omitted the nuances in this second part because what is important, first of all, is that international policy remains a State policy and that we can reach agreements, that we among all strengthen the international leadership that in Ibero-America, but especially in Venezuela, is doing the Government of Spain, that we maintain the international demand and pressure on the Maduro Government at the bilateral and multilateral levels and that we call for demanding national reconciliation with human rights and the rule of law. Without that there is no democracy, no matter how hard some try to justify the unjustifiable. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE ATTACKS TO THE FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION THAT ARE PRODUCED IN SPAIN WORTH TO THE EXISTING LEGISLATION? [[File number 180/00215]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u41	Question now to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Alberto Garzón Espinosa of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what does the Government think of the recent attacks on freedom of expression under current legislation?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u43	Thank you very much. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u44	Thank you, President. Mr Garzón, the Government does not consider that any attack on freedom of expression is taking place in Spain, it is fully guaranteed, let alone as a result of existing legislation. In any case, this Parliament is here to propose the reforms that you consider appropriate, but I believe that the rights and freedoms in Spain are fully guaranteed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u45	Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u46	Minister, fact number one: a girl - and I stress that as a girl - twenty-one years old writes a series of jokes about a torturer fascist in our country and a sentence by a conservative court finds her guilty and sentenced to one year in prison. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u47	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u48	Fact number two: a tweeter in similar circumstances makes similar jokes, judges him a less conservative court and is acquitted and declared innocent. This is a problem for his Government, which holds his Government accountable. What's the cause? An article of the Penal Code, 578, which is so ambiguous and creates so much legal uncertainty that the fact that he is guilty or innocent depends on whether the court is composed of members of Opus Dei or people of the twenty-first century. [[Rumors.-Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u49	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u50	What is the solution, Minister? The solution is proposed by a European Union directive just less than a month ago. He proposed amending that article in order to make it much more precise and to avoid this legal ambiguity. It is a directive of the European Union that proposes that only those who lead directly to the commission of a terrorist offence can be criminalized, so as not to be ambiguous and not to restrict freedom of expression. Terrorism, Minister, is a scourge; terrorism is something against what we are all here, for we have suffered it in one way or another. Without going any further, I grew up precisely... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u51	One second, Mr. Garzón. One second. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Go on, Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u52	Thank you, Madam President. I was saying, Minister, that I grew up knowing that an uncle of mine had to go with a gun and bodyguards for being a judge and being threatened by ETA. We are all aware of the scourge of terrorism, but you know what? Terrorism is combated from democracy, from the principles and values of democracy and not by cutting rights. You have the opportunity to change this mistake in the Penal Code, to listen to the European Union - you, the European Union - and to your recent directive, less than a month ago, and to return our country to the 21st century in order to prevent freedom of expression from being banned and jokes and humor from being reprehensible. We don't want to live in the time of Franco, in the time of Carrero Blanco, we don't want to make a joke be a reason for them to take us to jail. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u53	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u54	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you are confusing in Article 578 what is the rise of terrorism and what is humiliation of the victims, because the sentences that are being handed down have to do with humiliation of the victims. We have established in the Criminal Code the protection of all victims of crime and I am sure that you share that victims must be protected, especially when crimes of mockery and humiliation are committed through social networks. Surely, for minors that will seem very good to us and also for members of minority groups whose rights have not been properly defended in the past, but what about the victims of terrorism, ladies and gentlemen? The victims of terrorism can be humiliated, jokes can be made, jokes can be made? Article 578 regulates the humiliation of the victims and for this reason they have been convicted. Is it not to humiliate the victims that one person says that Ortega Lara should be kidnapped now and another says he wants death for these pigs? If you think that's humor or simply freedom of expression is that you have a problem. We don't share that vision. If you consider that the Civil Guard kills immigrants in the Melilla fence, that Bodalo is a political prisoner like Mr. Otegi, that Mr. Leopoldo López is a coup player who is in jail justifiably, surely we do not agree on the diagnoses and the approaches. [[Rumors.-Mr. Garzón Espinosa makes negative gestures]] In any case, as I said, ladies and gentlemen, article 578 adequately protects victims of terrorism so that they can never, ever, be victims of humiliation and much less of that kind of contempt and contempt. If you consider that the article should be improved, make such proposals as you deem appropriate. What we have done in the past legislature with the support of this parliamentary group has been to strengthen the protection of victims, the defence in the use of social networks, which play a great role in the communication society, in freedom of expression, but never, ever, can be used to despise, humiliate or disrespect the victims of crime in general, much less the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u55	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSÉ JAVIER LASARTE IRIBARREN, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DOES THE DRAFT BUDGETS PRESENTING THE GOVERNMENT SHALL CORRE THE DISEQUALITIES THAT HAVE HAPPENED IN THEIR PRESUPPORTS? [[File number 180/00225]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u56	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by José Javier Lasarte Iribarren, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Montoro, Minister, has achieved some outstanding milestones, such as being the longest-running finance minister in democracy. I don't know whether to congratulate her or not. It has made debt the highest in the history of public finances, more than one hundred per cent of GDP, the return of which is on the backs of the next generations. It has also failed in four of the last five budgets to meet the deficit targets set by the European Commission; and it has not breached the fifth because it negotiated a kind of temporary write-off by extending the deadlines and raising taxes to compensate for the negative effects of its tax lowering clientele. It has achieved the milestone of placing Spain among the most unequal countries in Europe. I ask you: do you think that the draft budgets that your Government is presenting will be able to correct the inequalities that have occurred with its last five budgets? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u58	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lasarte, although you have tried to reproduce a budget debate in minutes and a half, you have not succeeded. Inequality is the daughter of the economic crisis. Inequality is a legacy of job destruction. I will remind you that with a socialist government sitting on this blue bench 3,200,000 jobs were destroyed. That is the cause of inequality and we are correcting it with economic recovery, with job creation and with those 600,000 people who joined Social Security between March of last year and March of this year. That's what budgets are for. By the way, they are the most social budgets in Spain's history. The budgets bring as public expenditure of all the administrations more than 30 billion euros dedicated to social cohesion. Mr Lasarte, I do not quite understand the political meaning of your question, because we are going to bring the budgets and we are going to seek the cooperation of the Socialist Party. It is time for the Socialist Parliamentary Group to be responsible so that we can actually have in Spain budgets that strengthen economic recovery, job creation and the consequent correction of inequalities. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Lasarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u61	You learned the speech five years ago and you haven't changed it. It is the racca racca of every year, when it presents its budget proposal. Even the OECD tells him that its growth model is not inclusive, that it generates low-quality jobs and that it is therefore exclusionary and creates inequality. It presents an unfair, continuous and more unequal budget proposal. Continues with adjustments - five years of adjustments - of non-financial public spending. It continues with austerity policies, although even the IMF has acknowledged its failure, and continues to bear the cost of the crisis on them. The loss of purchasing power of public employees continues. It condemns pensioners to see the real value of their pension reduced. The level of income and spending capacity of more than 12 million Spaniards are decreasing and it is time to raise wages in real terms and not to lower them. A policy continues that penalizes young people with poor scholarships for students and without a youth employment plan in conditions that offer them decent jobs and a future of hope. The lack of medium- and long-term vision of this country's productive model continues, renouncing to bet on education and R & D+i to win the future with knowledge, talent and innovation, to improve the productivity of the economic system and cope with the technological changes facing Spain. It continues to bet on a low-wage economy and precarious employment. Do not expect the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for an unfair and continuous budget proposal. More of the same, more inequality and precariousness that condemn thousands of Spaniards to a worse future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u62	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lasarte, I have not at all understood the political meaning of your intervention. To understand us, it has confused me in political terms. I do not understand that the first question addressed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Spanish Government on budgets is already a no, when we are all going to build something. Aren't we building something in this legislature? Aren't you the ones who voted for deficit targets with us? Aren't you the ones who voted for tax measures with us so that we could make these budgets? [[The deputies of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea attend]] I say someone would vote in this House. Mr Lasarte, political language is important, and that is why I modestly recommend that you moderate the tone of criticism, because an economic change is taking place in Spain and the positive thing would be for that change to be shared by all political groups. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u64	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON RAFAEL MAYORAL PERALES, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM WE CAN IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT PERCENTAGE OF TRUTH HAVE PROVIDED FOR THE GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE THAT IS GONNA REMIT US TO THIS CAMERA? [[File number 180/000217]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u65	Question by Mr Rafael Mayoral Perales of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as far as the accounts are concerned, what percentage really does the draft budgets bring us to this House?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u67	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mayor, the content of your question has made me reflect on the three truths that the budget brings. [[Laughter]] I'm going to sum it up because this is a question in time. The first truth is that much of the employment is being created through budgetary policy and structural reforms. 40% of all employment created in the European Union is generated in Spain, the 600,000 members I have described earlier. This year, with the new budgets, more than 500,000 jobs will be created in EPA terms. The second truth is that these budgets contain the largest social expenditure in the history of public budgets in Spain, more than €30 billion that will employ the total of public administrations in pensions, unemployment expenditure, dependency, disability care, education and health care; that is what these budgets bring. Thirdly, they are promoting a reduction in the public deficit, which is the one that is right for Spain to finance economic growth, it is the one that responds to the commitment with the European institutions and it is the one that makes us a reliable partner in the construction of the great political project to which Mr Hernando referred this morning. In addition to economic integration, the European Union is a great political project of understanding, tolerance and trust among the citizens of all the countries of Europe. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Mayoral.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the truth is that the citizens of our country are becoming increasingly clear that these budgets will result in a pact between cutlers. You already have the scissors of the Lords of Citizens, it seems that the PNV joins and perhaps you will also get to support them 0.85% of the election results of the PSOE. Even these budget cuts are already known among many public employees of the General Administration of the State as Mr Montoro's imaginary budgets. The doubt is, how many orders of budget non-availability are there going to be this year?, how many cuts on cuts are there going to be this year? We recognize that you are one of the most powerful men in this government, your scissors are the sharpest in southern Europe, they are able to cross even the borders of Euskadi, where they have managed to cut 15% of the GIR, which results that after twelve days there are still five people on hunger strike today because of those cuts that have already arrived there. What's waiting for us? We expect cuts on cuts, as we saw in the previous legislature: research, R+D+i, change of economic development vector. What has happened to IPOs in our country? That after your non-availability orders and those year-end closures - which you would have to know when you intend to do so this time - the research budget has decreased by 15%. What's wrong with this? It leaves us out of international research societies and makes it difficult for us to get into European projects. [[Rumors]] Let us be serious, with this budgetary model, the public service is degraded and the functioning of the public administration at the service of the citizens is degraded.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u71	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u72	This is a reflection that we believe this House should do, a reflection on the austere that leads to a dead end and that does not allow people to live well in our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u73	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Mayoral? I have the impression that you have arrived in this Chamber late. It is probably a consequence of another type of economic and social situation, but they are late, precisely when there is economic recovery, job creation, when inequality is being reduced, when social spending is increasing and when there are no cuts. When one presents himself as the adalid and says 'I'm going to get there so that there are no cuts' and there are no cuts anymore, he's late. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] What is to be expected are your proposals, we are really waiting for those proposals. You are a very important political group in this House because of the number of Members and what those 5 million voters represent. So, we're waiting for your proposal...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF JUAN JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MATARÍ SÁEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT ASPECTS DO THE GOVERNMENT OF THE AGREEMENT SIGNED WITH THE SYNDICAL ORGANIZATIONS IN THE FIELD OF PUBLIC SERVICE HIGHLIGHTS? [[File number 180/00229]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u76	Question also addressed to the Minister, by Mr Juan José Matarí Sáez, of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u77	Minister, last week you signed with CSIF, with CC.OO. and with UGT a great agreement to improve the public service in Spain. This agreement, together with the General Budgets of the State that you submitted yesterday and the decree-law adopted last Friday, will allow the greatest offer of public employment in our country and will make it possible to reduce in an extraordinary way the temporality in public employment, which is undoubtedly too high. An agreement to reduce temporary employment by 90%, especially in sectors as important as health, education or social services. An agreement to expand the sectors in which the replacement rate will be 100 per cent. And an agreement to approve a public job offer of more than 67,000 places, for example 3,591 places for the National Police Corps, the largest offer since 2009, or 2,346 places for the Civil Guard, the highest offer since 2008. Such an agreement, Minister, can only be described, in our view, as a historic agreement, the first since 2009. It is an agreement that allows two very important things: first, to fulfil the commitment of the People's Party to return to public employees a large part of the solidarity effort that they have made in the toughest years of the crisis, thus recognizing their contribution to the economic recovery that has allowed the creation of 1,700,000 jobs in Spain in recent years. And, second, it is an agreement that means that citizens will receive better public services, especially in health, education, justice, social services, transport, security, emergencies...; all of them essential public services provided today by the municipalities, the autonomous communities and also the Government of Spain. For all this, Minister, before I ask you the question, there is only one thing that I believe is also important: to congratulate you and your entire team on this great agreement and to convey to you on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group our most sincere congratulations. And now I ask you: What aspects does the government, Mr Montoro, highlight of the agreement signed with trade union organizations to improve public service in Spain? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u78	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Matarí, for the meaning and content of your question, because what this agreement should do is, first and foremost, to put the improvement of the public service condition, the improvement of the quality of public employment, in the interests of social dialogue. I like to stress that it is time for the dignity of public services, of public servants. It is time to give back to the officials the great effort they have made to get out of this crisis with the best of their dedication, commitment and commitment, and it is time that this is also done not only as the will of a government, but as an expression of the legitimate representatives of the workers, of the majority of public employment unions in our country: CC.OO., UGT and CSIF. We must therefore publicly thank the meaning and content of this agreement as to whether these decisions to reduce the inactivity in public employment from this area should come. I have to remember that the last agreement of this nature that took place in Spain was in 2009 - in 2010 it happened precisely with the public service - and now it is quite the opposite. We are opening up the possibility that with this social dialogue, in addition to improving the condition of public employment, we can also continue to move forward to define the salaries that will be incorporated into the General State Budgets for 2018. Also in the other contents in labour matters so that the public service can be exercised in better conditions of competence and professionalism. In that area we will therefore continue to work. The achievement of the agreement is but the first step that we have opened up from a path of understanding between the public administrations, and I also want to reiterate now the importance of the autonomous communities in these kinds of agreements so that they can continue and be reflected in the General Budgets of the State for the year 2018. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u80	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON JUAN ANTONIO DELGADO RAMOS, OF THE FEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES WE CAN COMMUNICATE IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHEN IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO COMPLETE THE ELECTORAL COMMITMENT TO EQUIPMENT POLICE AND CIVIL GUARDY SUPPORTS TO AUTONOMIC POLICIES? [[File number 180/00216]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u81	Question is now addressed to the Minister of the Interior. Question by Mr Juan Antonio Delgado Ramos, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, when will the government fulfil its electoral commitment to equalize the salaries of police and civilian guards with those of autonomous police?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u83	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Government of Spain is fully convinced of the excellent work of the State Security Forces and Bodies. Those 64,000 women and men who are part of the National Police and those more than 74,000 who from the Civil Guard also provide, especially in rural areas, for public safety are doing a great job; hence they have the recognition that they have on the part of all citizens on a general basis. There is no government that wants to be more involved in improving all the provision of personal and material means and also in improving the personal working conditions of all these groups than the government of the People's Party that chairs Mariano Rajoy. The first thing we had to do was to increase the number of places, which were being demanded by both the National Police and the Civil Guard, and in the past the Council of Ministers approved - since it had not been done for a long time - a public job offer of 5,179 places, men and women who will be able to join the National Police and the Civil Guard. When budgetary resources are available, we will continue to address that balance between some police and others, which the People's Party is firmly committed to. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u86	Minister, on a previous note, last week I noticed some concern about the relationship between Paul and me. Don't worry, don't suffer because I guarantee you that you enjoy good health. I do not know whether you can say the same about your friend, the Director General of Traffic, after he lied, that he has concealed information about his claim to have a free flat, by the face, in Madrid, at the expense of the workers of the Civil Guard. I focus on the question. Minister, as far as the socio-occupational conditions of the police and civilian guards are concerned, you always have excuses. They recognize the work of the members of the State Security Forces and Bodies, filling them with praise: that if the homeland, if the honor, if the satisfaction of the duty fulfilled, if they are the best; that yes, the medals for the virgins and for the saints, and also for the director of some newspaper whose predecessor made honorary commissioner, but when it is up to you to recognize the State Security Forces and Bodies with concrete facts, the thing changes. Minister, when you, who say that Spain is the locomotive of Europe, are called upon to fulfil your commitments to the workers, in this case the State Security Forces and Corpses, and the locomotive does not run so much, it already becomes a coal locomotive. Moreover, you have had plenty of time to put an end to that discrimination that our police and our civilian guards suffer, and you have not done so. Do you know what happened? Do you know what the result is? It has simply not only not fulfilled its commitment to raise their salaries, but now police and civilian guards charge less than a year ago and also accumulate a 20% loss of purchasing power. In the background, you want to be cheap and obedient police officers, and that's all right; you have to leave those speeches empty and you have to fulfill your commitment, in this case with police and civilian guards. The question is very simple, without surrounds - do not answer what I have not asked you -, tell me for when you will fulfill that commitment to equalize the salary of police and civilian guards with that of autonomous police. Don't come to me with the squares that have already been called; I haven't asked that. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u87	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u88	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Delgado, with the demagogy he goes to a few places. Thank you for worrying about my health, which is good. The other day I gave sufficient explanations here, and also those I sent to the leader of your group, Mr. Iglesias. However, local police officers receive salaries according to the number of inhabitants in their municipalities and for what they agree to fix them; the autonomous police officers for what they set the autonomous communities according to their respective Government, and the salaries are fixed by law, by Royal Decree 950/2005. And I will tell you something else: as soon as there are budgetary provisions, that commitment will be fulfilled. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u89	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DONATION FERRAN BEL ACCENSI, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE PROMISES OF MILLIONS OF EUROS TO BE INVESTED IN CATALUNE, INCLUDED IN THE LAST LEGISLATION AND THE REPEAL OF THE SAME PROMISES ACHIEVED NOW BY THE PRESIDENT RAJOY? [[File number 180/000219]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u90	This is a question now addressed to the Minister for Development. Question by Mr Ferran Bel Accensi, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u91	Good morning, Minister. Our group asked him this question before President Rajoy's visit to Barcelona last week and the corresponding promise of millions of dollars in investments in the next General Budgets of the State. This visit and this promise have been duly denied by the presentation of the General Budgets of the State yesterday. These budgets forecast 30 million less investment than in 2016 and present the third lowest number of investments in Catalonia during the 21st century. However, although it seems somewhat out of date to you, we still have the question, Minister: what is the difference between the promises of millions of euros to invest in Catalonia that have not been met in recent legislatures and the repetition of the same promises made now by President Rajoy?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Development.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u93	Thank you, Mr. Bel. The construction of high speed in Catalonia or the completion of 165 kilometres of motorways are not unfulfilled promises but tangible realities. In any case, a few days ago, in fact, the president of the government was in Barcelona and made an announcement of an investment for the next four years of 4.2 billion euros. It is a realistic and evaluable commitment, and in order to begin to make it effective, the General Budgets of the State envisage a budget of 1.305 million euros. Do the math, which is very simple to do, and you will see that these budgets meet that commitment from our president. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Bel.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u95	I insist, Minister. It says: realistic and evaluable commitment; let us assess, Minister. Three examples: rail access to Barcelona airport, 2016 budgets: EUR 86 million; implemented: EUR 47 million. 2017 budgets: EUR 120 million, Minister; EUR 39 million of these EUR 120 million were already budgeted last year. Vandellòs-Tarragona railway section, 2016 budgets: 124 million euros; executed, 35 million euros. 2017: EUR 75 million; this EUR 75 million, Minister, was already budgeted last year. Rail access to the port of Barcelona, 2016 budgets: 7.5 million; executed, zero euros; 2017 budget: 4 million euros; these 4 million euros were already budgeted in 2016. And so we have more examples, Minister: the connection of the A-2 to the AP-7, a delay of three additional years; the A-27 Valls-Montblanc, a delay of one additional year; A-2 between Macanet and Sils, thirteen years to finish 4.7 kilometers. Minister, do you really believe that there is any credibility in relation to infrastructure for the Spanish State in Catalonia? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Development.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bel, Catalonia is the second autonomous community in budgetary effort of the Fomento group and the first in volume of investment. If you consider the 2016 budget discounting the non-availability, it increases by 7.13%, and they are realistic budgets to carry out works in ports, airports and some of the ones you have cited, but the Tarragona-Vandellòs stretch is not only a reality but we will finish the works in the spring, in the first quarter of 2018. In the same way as also the railway connection to the airport is a reality that we have just visited. And there is a strong commitment to end not only the Mediterranean corridor but also the ambitious Rodalíes plan. The best way to assess compliance with commitments is to face up to, explain, act transparently and try to share the evolution of those commitments with administrations and civil society. That's what we're doing and that's what we're going to do. To give you just a few examples: tomorrow I plan to make an intervention in a day on investments with the adviser of the Generalitat de Catalunya, tomorrow I will have a meeting with the mayor of Barcelona to talk about investments in Barcelona and among other things La Sagrera, on Monday I will participate in an act of the Generalitat here in Madrid to intervene on the evolution of the Mediterranean corridor and, throughout the month, we will try to deliver the Housing Plan to the Generalitat and the concrete terms of the Rolling Plan to agree on the commitments. The best guarantee of compliance therefore lies in the willingness to explain with transparency its progress with the Generalitat and with Catalan society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u98	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON JOSÉ ANDRES TORRES MORA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT REASONS DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO EXCLUDE THE CULTURAL VAT REDUCTION? [[File number 180/00226]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u99	Question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Question by Mr José Andrés Torres Mora, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, this question was addressed to the voracious Montoro, / but it turns out that someone has asked you / to answer me for it, and in this way, to assume the burden without the charge, / to explain to us why Hacienda imprisons cinema without decorum. / Five years ago the Treasury Minister thundered, / without anyone explaining to us the reasons of the embargo / that led to imposed on the cinema a VAT that, by long, / to the head of Europe places the Toro Skin. / The government informs us that in these budgets / the VAT of the bulls and the theater amendment, / but that in the cinema will keep the taxes high. / And as far as you're concerned, there's no one who understands / what are the reasons and the just arguments, / that justify the outrage against the cinema, of the Treasury. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u101	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u102	Thank you, Madam President. As the Minister of Employment would say, you have a lot of art, Mr Torres Mora, and that is why it is up to me to answer you, but the truth is that I do not have that ability that you have had to say it in verse. I'll talk to him, I'm afraid, in prose. What is the reason for the increase in VAT in 2011-2012? That we are in a deficit of 90 billion euros and we had to reduce it. We reduced it to $46 billion in last year's budget and 15,000 more in last year's budget. We have reduced taxes to all Spaniards in the IRPF and in the company tax €12 billion, and that will allow us a good budgetary policy and a good reform policy and that this year lowers VAT for live shows. So if we go on like this, do you know what we're going to do for the next budgets? We will also reduce VAT to cinema. I don't have the inspiration you have, but I do remember the lyrics of a song by Aute that said: 'Cine, cinema, cinema / more cinema, please / that everything in life is cinema / and dreams, / cinema are'. [[Laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u103	Mr. Torres Mora, before you give him time, don't stretch the stanza. Thank you very much, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Montoro, I mean Mr. Mendez de Vigo, instead of prose I'll tell you about numbers. With the rise of VAT from cinema to 21 %, Mr Montoro effectively managed to double the revenue collection. The problem is that up to that point the account of the old - or the old - works, but if you open the angle and open the focus you find that the effect of this 13-point rise in VAT, more than double, has had an impact on the economic activity of cinema, that is, it has damaged economic activity. The consequence of such a high VAT rate is that 394 rooms have been closed in these four years and, the rooms closed, do not collect and as they do not collect taxes either. Closed rooms also do not attract those people who go to the cinema and then go to the cane or restaurant and thus has an indirect effect on the economy in the closed room environment. So not being Mr Montoro the only one who has read about Laffer's curve - there are other people who have read it - the sector maintains in fairly solid reports that with the rise of taxes it has managed to collect 380 million euros, but they have stopped collecting 402, which is to make a bread like cakes. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u105	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Torres Mora, I'm sorry to tell you that you handle yourself better with poetry than with calculus, because there is no one who believes that for 60 cents - which is the difference - you have closed three hundred rooms, which you have said. This ministry has done much in favor of cinema in recent times. The system of tax incentives for the film and audiovisual sector, through a financial deduction that increases investment in the sector by four, has led to many more films being filmed in Spain. The Cinema Act of 2015 also replaces the amortization system with a system of subsidies that are paid long before the film is displayed. In the Culture 2020 Plan, which we have just presented to this House, measures to support cinema are being extended in virtually every fiscal, financial area; the new label 'Es cinema español' is a platform for new filmmakers, measures to promote our cinema abroad, and the strengthening of the National Film Library and the creation of the film museum; and in these General State Budgets, aid for cinema is increasing by almost 14%, a good reason to support them, Mr Torres Mora. You will see that we work for the cinema, because cinema makes us dream of everyone, we like everyone and I am sure that in the future we will be able to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. - QUESTION OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT WILL THE GOVERNMENT RESPONSE TO THE CONCERN expressed at the conference developed by the International Labour Organization on 28 March in Madrid on the grounds of the quality of employment in Spain? [[File number 180/00227]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u108	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Question by Mr Rafael Simancas Simancas, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, my group asks you, and millions of Spaniards would like to know, whether you are aware of the very serious problem that we have in this country with growing labour poverty and, more importantly, whether you are prepared to correct your employment policies in order to deal with it, because, Madam Minister, you generally take a selective look at employment statistics. It must be their particular contribution to the era of post-truth and alternative facts. You look at the statistics in those positive but partial data that favor your speech. However, there are other data and those data that you do not look at, Minister, tell us about a growing labour poverty in Spain. They are data that exist and reflect the suffering of many workers in this country. Madam Minister, yesterday we met the recruitment data for the month of March: there are 100,000 full-time indefinite contracts, of 1,700,000. Very few, Minister. More than a quarter of the contracts signed in March had a duration of less than one week, more than a third, a duration of less than one month. The data also tell us about false part-time contracts, false training and learning contracts, false self-employed contracts, false fellows. Since you came to the government, wage incomes have lost 2 points of GDP, that is, the Spanish workers are, since you came to the government, 25 billion euros poorer. And there is no longer any forum or international report that does not alert the job insecurity in this country, increasing job insecurity. The interventions at the last ILO conference in Madrid, the reports of the European Commission, the reports of the OECD, all tell us about an abusive temporary recruitment, which generates a fall in productivity and risks of poverty. Even Mr De Guindos, his cabinet partner, tells us that we have to normalize wages in this country and, if we have to normalize them, it will be because they are not normal. Madam Minister, we ask you to stop rubbing your hands with the statistics of the medium truth and to attend to the whole truth of the growing precariousness of work in this country, for example, by beginning with repealing the labour reform which is to a large extent the cause of this precariousness of work. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u110	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Simancas, the International Labour Organization says that the increase in inequality and precariousness in Spain during the crisis has to do with the destruction of employment in our country by 80%. Eurostat data, which is a foreign, non-Spanish or government agency, say that the increase in inequality in Spain is 2.7 during the crisis and that only 0.6 points has risen after 2011. Therefore, the main tool we have in Spain against inequality and poverty is to create employment. I have told you and other fellow bankers many times: the quality of employment in Spain, Your Honor, begins with a job. That is what has changed in Spain, which we are talking about employment and we are no longer talking about unemployment because the socialists do not govern, Mr Simancas, that is the reality. Look, the merit is from Spanish society. We can make reforms, whether you like them or not, but they are instruments at the service of citizens and it is the workers, businesses and families who, with their particular decisions, create wealth and employment in this country. Jobs are not created by this Government or by any Government, Your Honor. However, something has changed in this country. Since the recovery there are already 1,700,000 people with opportunities that you did not have when you ruled. We have recovered half of the jobs destroyed during the crisis. You can say whatever you want, but I have read you figures published in the statistics. Of course, things remain to be done, but, look, we have recovered 65% of the undefined job that was destroyed and 38% of the temporary job, then it is better the job that is coming than the one that was gone. 95% of the recovered employment is full-time, so partiality has improved. You have told me about wages and salaries are the responsibility of collective bargaining, but I also tell you that the responsibility of the social partners has led to the creation of 500,000 jobs in Spain over the last three years and the acquisition of purchasing power by workers. Few wage increases, but enough to continue creating jobs and opportunities because the first thing is to count on everyone for the recovery of this country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u112	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MONERO MANUAL PEREZ IN SUPPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PABLO MANUAL Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES MAY IN COMMON MAY IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO DO IN THE NEXT PENSION BUDGETS? [[File number 180/000218]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u113	Question by Mr Pablo Manuel Iglesias Turrión, Member of the Parliamentary Group... [[Mr. Iglesias Turrion makes negative gestures.-Pause]] Sorry, the Presidency had not been informed that the Member who is going to ask the question is Mr Manuel Monereo Pérez of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u114	Minister, what are your government's forecasts of pensions in these General State Budgets?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u115	I'm sorry, Your Honor, I haven't counted your time, but it's been a few seconds. Thank you very much. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, the budgets that this government has put forward are the employment budgets, with the creation this year of more than 500,000 new jobs in Spain. They are the most social budgets of democracy because 7 out of 10 euros are going to be devoted to social policy. On that point, I would like to look at two very important initiatives which contain the budgets. The first is the 1 % increase in Iprem, which is the first time that it has risen so strongly since 2010 in our country, which will greatly help the benefits and subsidies in our country to increase the income of many citizens and improve access to our pension system with the income test. In the area of pensions, the increase in pensions will reach more than EUR 142 billion this year, accounting for 39% of the total. Your Honor, in conclusion, we are starting a recovery in Spain, with job creation and also a very social recovery, because we are paying more pensions than ever, to more pensioners than ever and also higher than ever. For the first time in our country the average retirement pension exceeds 1000 euros, therefore, very social budgets and counting on all. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Monereo Pérez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u118	A few days ago a very interesting book by Joaquín Estefanía was presented entitled Grandfather, how did you consent to this? It is of those round books, with a round title, that explains the dilemmas of our society in a historical moment like the one we live in. Grandpa, how did you consent to this? I feel like I'm being questioned. We have been discussing pensions for twenty-five years; rather, discussing their inviolability, their inviolability, their foreseeable ruin. In short, resources are devoted that do not serve too much but, above all, for overly generous benefits. We are in that, we are still in that debate, always that same debate, from report to report and always on the horizon we have the passion of our financial capital for trying to control a sector that would make it extremely predominant. What do we now know about pensions from this budget? The first thing we know is they're going to lose purchasing capacity, 6 points at the end of this year. We already know that, too. The second fundamental question that we know, and not a small one, is that the Social Security Reserve Fund will continue to be eroded, and the third question, which I consider to be extremely important, is an enormous legal uncertainty for the workers who are now active and those who intend to follow and be active, because they will not know what pension they will have in the future. We live in a situation where trust in the pension system is deteriorating and what is intended is for people to look for another way out. From that point of view, the situation is this: in the end we find the Matthew effect, but Matthew the Evangelist, that is, in a world where the rich are becoming richer and the poor are becoming poorer. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u119	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. You said that some in our country are bullies when they talk about pensions in Spain. I'm gonna tell you a little story. In 1995, when the Toledo Pact was signed among the great parties of this country in this House, some said that the pact was for nothing because in five years the pension system would go bankrupt, and we are here, Your Honor. The second good news I will give you is that today you are a representative of many Spaniards and you have the opportunity in this House to make proposals and build. The problem of pensions, 70% of the problem of the deficit today, is the loss of employment. We're working for that and we're getting back the job lost by the crisis. Secondly, we are in the Toledo Pact seeking consensus with all to continue to make our social security system the daily tranquillity of pensioners today and also tomorrow. I'll wait for you there, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u121	Thank you very much. Ms Melisa Rodrigez Hernandez, of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party, which expresses the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment: Does the Government of Spain consider that it needs a new national plan against the contamination that is taking place? SPECIFIC ON TRANSPORT EMISSIONS? [[File number 180/00221]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u122	Questions now to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. Question by Mrs Melisa Rodríguez Hernández, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u123	President, Minister, does the Government consider that Spain needs a new national plan to combat pollution? Does the Government consider that Spain needs a specific plan for transport pollution? What is the Government doing in this area? Is there anything you're doing today, directly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u124	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, air quality is fundamental to people's health and to the protection of the environment. Improving its quality is a priority for the government's environmental policy. Thus, we approved the National Air Quality and Air Protection Plan, the Air Plan for the period 2013-2016 to act on the sources of pollutant emissions, including transport, and to support the autonomous communities and municipalities that are competent in this area. Currently, the Ministry is working on the evaluation of the results and the preparation of the second Air Plan, which will strengthen the actions already promoted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u127	The World Health Organization report, published in 2016, says that 6,861 deaths were attributable to pollution in Spain in 2012. Pollution caused 15 deaths in Spain in that year per 100,000 inhabitants. The European Environment Agency tells us that there are eighteen nitrogen dioxide measuring stations that exceed the current legal limits in Spain. These are concentrated in Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia, Granada, Tarrasa and Mollet del Vallès. Point 19 of the Citizens' Agreement and the People's Party talks about energy transition plan, climate change law, and realistic goals such as boosting mobility with alternative vehicles, such as electricity. In short, we talk about working for and for citizens. I have reviewed in the Journal of Sessions his appearance in the Climate Change Committee and I have only found words like: push, we will elaborate, we will work, but nothing tangible, nothing we are doing today. It is necessary to develop this strategy for decarbonisation with the 2050 target, but what is it?, is it done?, when is it going to be done? We have been in Paris and Marrakech, and it seems perfect to us, but what is the route that has marked Spain and what are the real goals?, what is being done to achieve them? On 15 February 2017, Brussels gave Spain an ultimatum to improve air quality. Spain has not done enough, as Brussels said when last Wednesday gave a final warning. We have two months to ensure that the objectives are met, otherwise Brussels will be able to address the European Court of Justice. Madrid for the seventh consecutive year does not comply with the legal limits. The European Commission keeps an infringement file open with a subsequent fine that could come. It will be the responsibility of this House when they arrive at the last minute to present something without consensus and that we vote because, if not, it will be the responsibility of everyone who fines us. I think we need to be responsible and start working now. His own ministry recognized that a national plan was needed to work not only for the citizens, but to prevent local policies of improvisation that instead of working for the climate would end up creating chaos in cities like Madrid. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u128	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. You talk to me about climate, you talk to me about Paris, you talk to me about Marrakech, you talk about climate change, and I would like to make it clear that emissions of air pollution, emissions of roofs are different from emissions of greenhouse gases. I will focus on air quality, whose competence for management and control lies with the autonomous communities, the municipalities. The State dictates the basic regulations, coordinates and supports overall planning. From the government we have already addressed those responsible administrations that are out of compliance. We attach great importance to the improvement of air quality and, we have launched initiatives complementary to those of the local and autonomous administrations with a strong budgetary commitment, including the Air Plan for the period 2013-2016. We have also drawn up with great consensus of the actors involved seventy-eight measures developed in areas such as transport, to which it relates, which concentrates twenty-four. Vehicle labelling was introduced, which will enable local authorities to encourage the use of cleaner vehicles. We have earmarked more than EUR 172 million for air quality improvement initiatives and have developed Environmental Impulse programmes such as PIMA Air, which have enabled more than 40,000 vehicles to be renovated. We also have the Climate Projects, which are more than two hundred. We have launched eight editions of the Efficient Vehicle Incentive Plan, with over EUR 1.1 billion. The use of the electric vehicle you propose in the Movele Plan has been promoted, supporting the purchase of more than six thousand five hundred vehicles. All these actions are very important in terms of reducing pollution and will have a new impetus in this legislature. First, as I have already announced, with a second Air Plan for the period 2017-2019, with awareness-raising measures and other measures aimed also at specific sectors including transport. Work will be carried out on the promotion of rail transport with origin and destination in ports and on new support measures for alternative energy vehicles. It will also continue with actions like PIMA Residues, with Climate projects, with the Plan Movea... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u130	Thank you very much, Minister. - of the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment: Does her department intend to authorize the health of the Canary Dad to the Peninsula, once recognized by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment in the Royal Decree 197/2017 the effectiveness of the Protocol drawn up by the Autonomous Community of Canaries for the Elimination of Guatemalan Polilla? [[File number 180/00175]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u131	Question also to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries, Food and Environment, by Mrs Ana María Oramas González-Moro, of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the moth of the pope in particular, and the plagues in general, are matters that we know a lot about in the Canary Islands. The ducks of the islands have suffered the plague of the moth of the pope since the beginning of the century, almost two decades in which we have fought with them in search of a remedy so that our greatest treasure, the ancient potatoes, can be re-exported. What happened to the potato moth in the Canary Islands is a clear example of why the 1987 order cannot be repealed, in which the islands are protected from the entry of certain products with diseases that do not occur in the Archipelago. It is a clear example of why the border inspection posts of the Archipelago must have the necessary equipment to prevent the fraudulent entry of those products that do so much harm to our farmers. That fear that the entrance of any plague will ruin our field has made us stand at the forefront of research and, for example, find a protocol for disinfection of the potato with Guatemalan moth so that it can be exported. Unfortunately today it is Galicia and Asturias that suffer this evil, and so I want to show our solidarity and our help as the ministry has already done, which has recognized the effectiveness of the treatment developed in the Canary Islands in the decree of measures against the moth of the pope for these two communities. Thanks to this protocol developed with own budgets by the Government of the Canary Islands in collaboration with the lobby of Tenerife and the University of La Laguna, Asturians and Galicians will be able to move their potatoes from affected points to unaffected points. Madam Minister, I am aware that the European Union has to give the final approval so that this protocol can be used in the Canary Islands and thus export one of our greatest treasures or at least bring our potatoes to the peninsula. I therefore ask you to urge the European authorities to speed up the adoption of this protocol. Next June, the first camera bought by the Tenerife lobby will be installed to give the treatment to the potatoes of the Canary Islands. We hope that at that time it can be finally authorised by the European Union and that all, Canary Islands, Galicians and Asturians, we can benefit from that investigation. And we also ask that INIA co-finance these researches that affect not only the Canary Islands, but several communities, and that it give priority to these researches in the Canary Islands. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u133	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Community legislation establishes a special plant protection regime for the Canary Islands, which has been a permanent request from the various governments of the Canary Islands, which in practice and, from a plant protection point of view, gives the Canary Islands the status of a third country. In this situation, the Spanish Government is not competent to lay down the conditions under which canary agricultural products may be introduced into the rest of the Spanish territory. This competence falls within the competence of the European Union. In the rest of Spain, Royal Decree 197/2017, establishing the national programme for the control and eradication of Guatemalan moth, aims to prevent its dispersion and raises its eradication, both of which cannot be raised in the Canary Islands. It is therefore not a rule to establish conditions of movement, but rather to control and eradicate this plague, which has a quarantine pest for the European Union. The introduction of potatoes from areas and countries affected by this pest is therefore prohibited. Its presence in the Canary Islands was detected in 1999 and has since been extended to most of its territory. The competent authority, the Government of the Canary Islands in this case, has opted for a containment regime. Since then, and in accordance with Community legislation, the introduction of canary potatoes into the European Union, including the rest of the Spanish territory, has been prohibited. As I said, the Canary Islands has always had a special plant health statute, so we have moved it into the negotiations of the new European Union Plant Health Regulation, which will enter into force in December 2019. This situation makes it possible to establish stricter conditions for the entry of agricultural products, which gives Canarian agriculture greater protection against the entry of pests and diseases. On the other hand, the conditions for access to the European Union are laid down at Community level, not at national level, as the Government of the nation has no powers to do so. In this context, it is for the European Commission to make appropriate proposals, which is well known to the Government of the Canary Islands, which sent the Ministry a proposal for a protocol for the elimination of the Guatemalan moth so that it can be forwarded to the Commission for approval. We have done so and, at the moment, we are waiting to conclude the negotiations. Do not hesitate, Your Honor, that we are doing everything in our power to ensure that this protocol is approved in the European Union so that the canary potato can be re-exported to the territory of the Union. Proof of the support of the ministry for the protocol set out by the Canary Islands is that it has been included as a mitigation measure in the aforementioned royal decree that refers to the peninsular territory, on which we do have full competence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u135	Mrs. Oramas? [[Denial]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u136	We then proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. Firstly, urgent debate by the Socialist Group on the Government's policy on measures for the immediate reduction of air pollution and the revision of the energy model. For her defence, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Madam Minister, I shall begin my intervention by invoking Article 45 of the Constitution, which is no more necessary in this rostrum. That article says that we all have the right to enjoy an environment suitable for the development of the person, as well as the duty to preserve it. In recent years pollution has become one of the greatest threats to health and the environment, so from the Socialist Group we are asking the Government to know what the general policy on pollution reduction is. I will start by talking about the serious consequences of pollution on health and quality of life, because, as much as it is repeated, it does not seem that the current Government is sufficiently serious about this matter and is acting accordingly. I will start with some newspaper headlines based on various reports we have recently known, such as that of the European Environment Agency and that of the World Health Organization or the INE statistics on deaths. Minister, the World Health Organization reveals that pollution harms health more than thought. One news report says that particulate pollution has killed 26,830 people in Spain in a decade. And another says: Spain suffocates; deaths from respiratory diseases increase by 18%. These are just a few examples of the social alarm based on the pollution we are enduring. These headlines are realizing a reality, and it is not being done enough to reduce air pollution levels. According to the European Agency - we have already seen it - 29,980 premature deaths per year occur for this cause. Only in the city of Barcelona, according to municipal technicians, about 3,500 people would have lost their lives due to poor air quality. The World Health Organization warns of the significant increase in cardiorespiratory diseases, strokes, pneumonia, cancer, asthma, allergies, impotence, and admits that the effects of pollution are far more severe than was believed just eight years ago. A report has also just been published in which it recommends tightening anti-pollution legislation. On the contrary, Spain is among the countries that are in breach of Directive 2008/50 on ambient air quality, which sets the limit values for air pollutants, in particular nitrogen dioxide. The Commission sent a warning to Spain, among other countries, about the constant violation of air pollution levels. Minister, how many times has the Government of Spain ignored this warning so that they will have to give us an ultimatum? I'd appreciate your answer. The European Commission has given us two months to take measures to reduce nitrogen dioxide levels. More than a month and a half have passed and we do not yet know what measures the Government has taken or is going to take in this area. He has less than fifteen days to act and send his measures to the Commission before the European Court of Justice intervenes and acts against us. Let us hope that the answer to this ultimatum will not be a new request for extension in order to breach the regulations and continue to put the health of the Spaniards at risk. I should be grateful if you would take this opportunity to explain the Government's plans to address this public health problem. Since the previous National Air Quality Plan, which, as you said a moment ago, lasted until last year, seems to have not worked on the basis of the results, I would like you to make an assessment of that plan and let us know if there is a new programme in place, what the main measures will be and what budget you have envisaged to address them. Madam Minister, the effects on the health and touch of the European Union of non-compliance are only the consequences of a negligent attitude to assess the origin of air pollution and to design effective and comprehensive public policies to avoid its impact. To design policies that achieve the desired objectives, one must focus on the causes, go to the root of the problem. You have to be radical in order to improve air quality. According to the various studies and reports consulted, road traffic and the mobility model are the main drivers of emissions. Transport accounts for 23% of global greenhouse gas emissions across the energy sector. Over the past 15 years it has been one of the sectors of activity that has reduced its emissions least. It has only done so by 8 %, while during the same period industry, for example, has reduced it by 32 %. Transport is considerably behind the generation of electricity, where renewables - albeit too slowly and with absurd barriers such as the sun's tax - are increasing their percentage of production with zero emissions, having achieved a reduction of 31% of their emissions. However, it is precisely the transport sector that can act as a lever in the fight against pollution, given that technological developments in the design of electric vehicles and higher capacity batteries are unstoppable. Gas-powered vehicles are also optimal for particulate removal and would serve as a transition technology. But for this to be possible, a revolution within your Government, a possible revolution only with political will, is needed. In keeping with our constructive spirit, we have indicated to you some of the issues that we consider to be fundamental. Firstly, we must encourage the purchase of electric vehicles, but we must really encourage them. The Government has lost a great opportunity to allocate part of the €890 million invested in the PIVE plans since 2012, to hybrid, electric or LNG-powered vehicles, while the share for the electric vehicle has not reached €40 million since 2009, i.e. €890 million compared to €40 million since 2009. In order to meet the objectives set by the European Union there should be between 4.4 and 6 million electric vehicles in Spain by 2030, i.e. between 50 and 60% of the mobile fleet. If we take into account that in 2015 there were 6,500 electric vehicles in Spain and that in 2016 4,750 - 0.4% of registered vehicles - were sold, at what rate, Minister, are we going to work to achieve the goals? The effort that the Government should make is much greater. According to Deloitte's latest study, it would be necessary to invest sixteen times a year to achieve its fulfillment. In addition to the electric vehicle, the necessary accompaniment infrastructure and recharge infrastructure must be created. For us to know clearly what situation we are in, I give you an example: Spain has 1,700 recharge points and the Netherlands has 18,000, more than ten times more than Spain has. It is estimated that 80,000 would be required in 2030. Fast electrolines don't even exist in Spain. There should be a plan for the deployment of public access recharge infrastructures, setting public infrastructure targets at each level of the Administration according to their competencies. Another essential measure is the promotion of energy rehabilitation in buildings, especially in low-income buildings with a high concentration of emissions, and to take advantage of the exemplary role of the Public Administration in purchasing electric vehicles and in rehabilitating public buildings to make them more sustainable and therefore less expensive. An efficient rehabilitation and isolation plan is urgently needed. On the other hand, the effective transposition of the Energy Efficiency Directive has not yet been achieved and individual heating meters remain out, which would save up to 30% of consumption and therefore emissions. Madam Minister, environmental taxation should be promoted which would burden those who do so badly, those who emit particles and CO2, and with these funds allow incentives for a new model of mobility. Industrial pollution is another determinant of air quality, as is the management of industrial and municipal waste in an orderly and coordinated manner. Finally, Minister, I must remind you that 35% of pollutant emissions are in large urban centres, which account for 5% of the surface area and affect 60% of the population. But not only do they affect those living in cities and metropolitan areas, but they have direct effects on agriculture as a result of tropospheric ozone. The slowing down of the implementation of effective rural development policies is leading to an increasing depopulation of rural areas, which today continue to be the source of pollution in large cities. The latest data indicate that there is an annual movement of 50,000 people from the rural to the cities and can only be stopped if there are determined policies to keep the population in the territory. I encourage you to also explain today how you are going to avoid mass population concentration in large cities when there are eminently rural regions, such as mine, Extremadura, which are being re-punished with 17% less budget this year and 62% less accumulated since the People's Party government is governing. Madam Minister, immediate remorse and decision-making is necessary, and above all, clear and strong leadership is needed to coordinate and evaluate all actions and thus meet the stated objectives. That is what the Socialist Group today - and I am sure most of this House - expects of you not to continue to be admonished by our partners and, fundamentally, so that everyone, regardless of where we live, can breathe at ease. That's all, thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lucio. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I pointed out in my previous speech, air quality is fundamental to people's health and to the protection of the environment, and improving its quality is therefore one of the priorities of the government's environmental policy. Act No. 34/2007, on air quality and protection of the atmosphere, was enacted as basic legislation and an instrument for improving coordination between administrations. According to the Act, the State, in collaboration with the autonomous communities, is competent to update the relationship of pollutants, the catalogue of potentially polluting activities, to define air quality objectives and to develop and update emission inventories or to promote strategic plans at the state level. According to the law, it is the autonomous communities and local entities that have direct competence for air quality control and management and are responsible for implementing concrete initiatives to reduce pollution levels. The Autonomous Communities assess air quality, adopt plans and programmes to improve air quality and to ensure that the objectives are met in their territory. They must also take the necessary control and inspection measures to ensure that the provisions of Law 34/2007 are complied with. In addition, they can set air quality targets and emission limit values that are stricter than those set by the General Administration of the State. Similarly, local entities with more than 100,000 inhabitants have an obligation to adopt plans to meet these objectives. In any case, Your Honor, for reasons of public health - you mentioned this - for reasons of environmental protection, this Government attaches great importance to improving air quality, coordinating and supporting regional and local initiatives and taking strong budgetary commitments beyond our strict area of competence. Already in the X Legislature we approved the National Plan for Air Quality and Protection of the Atmosphere, the Air Plan 2013-2016, with a total of seventy-eight measures that affect the most widespread air quality problems in Spain with the aim of respecting the legal values. Among other aspects, the Air Plan has enabled vehicles to be labelled according to their potential contaminant. This will enable local authorities to manage and implement traffic-related measures to encourage the use of cleaner vehicles. We have also launched the environmental drive plans, PIMA, and in particular four editions of PIMA Aire, with a budget of more than 53 million euros, to renew the car fleet with more efficient vehicles with less environmental impact and encourage the purchase of electric bicycles. This plan has enabled the renovation of more than 40,000 vehicles. This initiative is complemented by the remaining PIMAs, which have received additional funding of €40 million. These are the PIMAs. Sun and PIMA Earth for tractor renewal, for transport vehicles and passengers over eight years old or for waste, to promote separation at source and improvement of the environmental behaviour of landfills. Climate projects are also important, which, with five calls and an investment of €79 million for more than 200 approved projects, will have a positive effect on air quality. In short, Your Honor, there is a total of EUR 172 million in these measures to promote initiatives to improve air quality. Both Climate and PIMA projects have continuity in this legislature. The 2017 Climate Call has recently been launched, and the PIMA Residues has nearly 5 million in the draft budgets. We are currently evaluating the results of the Air Plan 2013-2016, in order to evaluate the progress and propose new actions that allow to reinforce the ones promoted in recent years. An inter-ministerial working group has been established which is working on a new 2017-2019 plan; a plan that will complement those developed by the autonomous communities and local entities, with the aim of reducing emissions of major pollutants, including nitrogen dioxide particles and ozone precursors. We want it to focus especially on those actions aimed at information and citizen awareness as well as those aimed at sectors involved in pollutant emissions. Work will also be carried out on the promotion of rail transport with origin and destination in ports and new support measures for the stimulation of alternative energy vehicles or in matters of efficient use of agricultural machinery. We will also subsequently develop a national air pollution control programme to replace the AIRE plans and establish measures to reduce emissions of air pollutants and tropospheric ozone precursors. This programme will be ready in 2019 when the technical guidelines are defined at European level. We will also continue with the revision and adaptation of the regulations, as has already been done with the Royal Decree 39/2017 of 27 January, which amends the Royal Decree of 2011 on air quality, and which, among other measures, establishes the elaboration by the ministry of a national air quality index that will allow the uniform consolidation of information for Spain on different time scales. In addition, pursuant to Directive 2016/2284 of 14 December on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants, the Government is working on a real decree to reduce emissions of certain air pollutants and to regulate the preparation of the national inventory and emission projections. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the Government's most significant commitments to this legislature has been to announce to the Courts the submission of a draft law on climate change and energy transition; a law that will allow us to move towards a low-carbon economy and an increasingly cleaner production model in line with our commitments made in the Paris agreement. I would like to inform this House that at its last meeting the Delegated Committee on Economic Affairs approved the establishment of an interministerial working group, which will meet this week to begin the preparation of this legislative text, which will undoubtedly be one of the most important for the economic and environmental future of our country in the coming decades. We want this law on climate change and energy transition to be the result of participation and consensus, and we will therefore hold some days of debate with the participation of experts from all sectors, for which we certainly hope to have the involvement of political groups. I shall now comment on aspects related to the revision of the energy model. This model has placed energy efficiency as a priority in order to boost savings and reduce external dependence, essential aspects of our energy policy that contribute to reducing air pollution and improving the environment. To this end, the National Energy Efficiency Fund has been set up as an instrument to meet the European objectives in this field, implementing economic and technical support mechanisms in the industrial, construction, road and rail sectors, external lighting and desalination; more than EUR 655 million has been earmarked for these purposes since 2012. Specific lines have also been put in place such as the State Plan to promote housing rental, building rehabilitation - which you pointed out - and urban regeneration and renovation, which in the period 2013 to 2016 had a budget of more than 800 million euros and which has been extended for 2017. In the European context now being opened, we will also address the following lines of action: deepening investment in energy efficiency at public and private level, continuing the management of the National Energy Efficiency Fund; improving the design of energy efficiency programmes, targeting lower-income households; promoting better accounting and regulatory treatment of public investment in energy efficiency in public buildings or officially protected housing in Europe. With regard to the modification of the transport model to reduce the use of fossil fuels, the Government had promoted measures to improve energy efficiency. In addition to the PIMA Plans I have cited, the programme of incentives to the efficient vehicle is added, which, with eight editions, has reduced national energy consumption by more than 1.1 billion euros through the modernization of the vehicle fleet. The programmes to promote the acquisition of electric vehicles, Movele, with a budget of 37 million euros, have encouraged the acquisition of some 6,100 electric vehicles during this period. The Movea programme was launched in 2016 to encourage the acquisition of vehicles powered by alternative energies. Spain is a leader in renewable energy generation, from which almost 40% of all electricity generated last year came, surpassing other countries in our environment. In addition, Spain is close to meeting the goal of achieving a 20% share of renewable energy in total national energy consumption by 2020. In the last year available, 2015, the participation of renewables was 17.3%; well above the 13.8% that established the binding path for Spain. Our situation is favourable; it has been achieved at a very high cost, as most of the deployment of renewables, especially photovoltaics, occurred before the great advance of these technologies and therefore savings in costs derived from them were not achieved. On the immediate horizon, Spain will relaunch the installation of new renewable capacity. The Government has recently launched a new auction for a capacity of 3,000 megawatts. Another line of energy action is the improvement of consumer information and the strengthening of consumer management capacity. We have a very advanced deployment of smart meters; we also work to strengthen protection for the most vulnerable consumers, adapting the social bonus so that it can be applied to those who need it most. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is engaged in a transition process to make the energy sector a lever of competitiveness, job creation and economic growth. To this end, the Government will continue to improve competition in the markets towards greater integration of Spain into the European energy market. This requires greater energy interconnection with Europe through France, which will allow us to have a more competitive price and integrate renewable energy more efficiently. The Government's intention is to continue to push all possible efforts in this area to stabilize the fluctuations in our market and compensate for them with those in other European markets, improving the price of electricity and enabling the efficient integration of a growing degree of renewable technologies. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government is very aware of the need to continue to take effective measures to improve air quality, because protecting the health of people and the environment is and will continue to be an essential objective. To achieve this, we will continue to work actively with autonomous communities and municipalities, which, as you know, are directly responsible for taking action. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u140	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, you have done a competition-sharing exercise among all the administrations that are responsible for pollution. He hoped that he would make that distribution, bearing in mind that the responsibilities are effectively divided between the different levels of the Administration, but if anything is needed is the leadership he spoke of earlier; a leadership to deal with the problems without necessarily having to be shared between the government departments or the various State administrations. Without that leadership, it is very difficult to solve the current problem; this issue must have an all-encompassing, comprehensive, multidisciplinary approach, and that leadership must also serve to make everyone feel absolutely concerned with the resolution of the problem that concerns us, which is pollution. Inter-administrative cooperation must be stepped up, Minister; it is the function of the Government, because it is you who are asked about pollution, it is the Government of Spain to which the European Union warns when the objectives are not met. I understand that it is sometimes a little unpleasant that, if you do not have the full competence on this issue either within the government or within the whole of the administrations, you have to be the one to explain the pollution data, but ask Mrs Báñez, that every month you have to give the unemployment data and this has a lot to do with a erratic policy on the part of the Department of Economics, the Department of Finance or other departments. That's right, Minister, it's up to you. The reasons for the pollution are in the energy model. I thank you for talking about energy today, but I would also like to thank you that the next time you talk about energy, it is not a text read and reviewed by the Ministry of Energy, but for once they combine energy and climate and make a proposal that is much more credible to citizens. It was a strategic mistake not to unite energy and climate skills in a single ministry and right now it is a serious mistake. It is true that when it comes to forming a Government, all the issues are adjacent and can be distributed in the way that the President of the Government feels right, but at this historic moment, after signing the Paris Agreement, it seems to me very serious that they are not incorporated into the same department, because in the end they are not going to achieve the objectives they are intended to achieve, they are not going to achieve the objectives to which we have committed ourselves as a country. Minister, you need that leadership, clear leadership, because you have to change many things, you have to change the model of life, the uses, the customs. Really, you have to make a revolution and this is not achieved by freezing the departure of electric vehicles and neither is it going to be achieved if you do not make a real assessment of what the AIRE Plan has been. Take advantage of this second intervention that you will have to explain to us all who are present what that evaluation has been, because for the moment I have heard futurables, but absolutely nothing of what it has meant. Madam Minister, I think we have an opportunity, that we have an appropriate parliamentary bow to work and to achieve objectives that are far beyond party interests. I hope that's how you do it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lucio. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, this government works collegiately and in perfect harmony. The Government is absolutely committed not only to climate change, but also to the energy transition, and that is why the President announced the drafting of the so-called law on climate change and energy transition to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It will also be a law that will make it easier for us to comply with the energy transition to a low-carbon model, which is what we have all committed to; a law that will be everyone's and that will be elaborated with a participatory process of all parliamentary groups. Of course, I look forward to your valuable contributions. It will be a law that will facilitate Spain's compliance with its commitments and that will allow energy policy to also promote economic activity, competitiveness and employment while establishing a low-carbon economy. The Government, I repeat, is working in absolute coordination. An inter-ministerial working group has recently been set up to coordinate the work necessary for the preparation of this preliminary draft law on climate change and energy transition within the framework of the Government Delegated Commission on Economic Affairs, so that all the ministries that must necessarily be involved will be present for the most important challenge for the General Administration of the State to draw up not only this law, but also the integrated energy and climate plan that we will have to present at the end of this year. As I said at the outset, Your Honor, we are well aware that improving air quality is an essential objective and that we need to take measures that are effective and that are properly managed, protecting people's health, the environment and also reconciling economic needs. That's why the AIRE Plan 2013-3016 was made, and it was made in a different way than it was in 2011, which had not been agreed with the autonomous communities or local authorities. This plan has the coordination, collaboration and consensus of all actors involved because they are effectively competent in practice to control and adopt measures. But this does not mean that we are not fully involved in the government. I have told you before that the Government has allocated more than EUR 172 million to PIMA and Climate programmes, that through the National Energy Efficiency Fund and the Housing Rehabilitation Plan, the efficient vehicle incentives programme or the Movele programmes more than EUR 2,590 million have been invested. I'd like to give you some data on air quality in Spain. The European Environment Agency 2016 report on air quality in Europe contains maps showing that the situation in Spain is similar or even better than that of countries with a level of development similar to ours. The historical record of the data available to us in the ministry in the last ten years shows this: in 2005 there were forty-seven areas where the PM10 particle limit value was exceeded and in 2015 these exceedances have been reduced to eight areas in three autonomous communities: Asturias, Andalusia and Catalonia. As for sulphur dioxide, in 2005 there were six areas that did not meet the limit value. Currently, all of Spain meets the limit values of both hours and days of this contaminant. With regard to the European Commission's opinion on non-compliance with nitrogen dioxide limits, I would like to say that this is not a general problem in Spain. These are violations in very specific areas, exactly in three: two in Catalonia and the city of Madrid. For putting us in a context I will say that, at the same time as Spain received this reasoned opinion, Germany received it by 28 zones, France by 19, Italy by 12 and the United Kingdom by 16. We have already addressed the competent administrations, both in Catalonia and in the city of Madrid, to whom we have asked for an answer on the measures. We will continue to work, as we have done so far, to improve the quality of life of all citizens, and this is because we have a better quality of our air and a better quality of our environment. And being aware that the competences in pollution prevention and reduction belong to autonomous communities and local entities, we will continue to provide our full support. We are currently evaluating the efficiency of the Air Plan 2013-2106 and already working on the drafting of a new Air Plan until 2019, as I announced at the beginning of my speech. Therefore, both through support measures and through important budget lines, the Government will continue to be involved in improving the air quality of the Spanish people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, on the development and effective implementation of Law 45/2007 of 13 December 2007 on sustainable development of the rural environment. [[File number 172/000035]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u145	We move on to the debate on the next item on the agenda, an urgent debate by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the development and effective implementation of Law 45/2007 of 13 December 2007 on sustainable development of the rural environment. For your defence, Mr Guijarro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u146	Thank you, President. The great jurist, economist, historian and politician of South Aragon Joaquín Costa stood out among the regenerationists of the end of the XIX for having denounced with tin and even more vehemence the rural backwardness in Spain. Costa blamed this secular delay on a cacichism embedded in the Peninsula since time immemorial, perhaps times of reconquest in front of those that our author claimed to throw 'double key to the tomb of the Cid so that he would not ride again'. A metaphor that no doubt concealed the frustration of seeing how the patrimonialist state founded by Cánovas bled out the rural areas expelling its inhabitants from the modernizing cycle that was divined in the incipient urban concentrations and thus forcing a sustained depopulation of the Spanish countryside that continues to this day. It is well known that nineteenth-century canonism was able to build real fortresses during that parliamentary regime of oligarchic character precisely in those areas most relegated by the then Public Treasury. An apparent contradiction that can only be explained by the effectiveness of a powerful plot that connected the lords and lords of large extensions of our agriculture with their vicars and brains of Madrid, a powerful plot of corruption we would say today. Therefore, it cannot be strange to anyone, Minister, that the People's Party declares itself worthy heir to canonism; indeed they are. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. You have succeeded in imitating the model to such an extent that you have despised even the ignominy of the millions who populate our camps, yet it is your party that achieves the greatest electoral revenue in these areas. Moreover, this seems to be the factor that has caused the traditional parliamentary over-representation that your group has been enjoying - abusing, you would say, others - since you declared yourself as lifelong democrats there for the seventies and eighties. A century ago and a peak such a contradiction provoked in Costa a patriotic anguish, sometimes translated in the form of a prediction, perhaps of malice, while later it was revealed as a tragic correctness. The most tenacious of his biographers, Professor Alfonso Ortí, quotes a speech from Costa of 1906 - just when the genius of Huesca occupied one of the seats of this same Chamber -: If he does not rush to solve the agrarian social question - proclaimed Costa - the next and necessary Republic will quickly exhaust itself without having made more than plans. They will happen again - he continued - half a year of Republican Courts and thirty-five of monarchical Courts, and the nation on earth, without anyone to lift it up more than the foreigner. Costa ended up lamenting in this amazing and at the same time desolating exercise of historical prognosis that, if the necessary reforms were not undertaken, the country was heading towards a civil conflict by which - and I quote textually - we would deserve to be punished with Bourbons to every pasture, for all eternity. That's how solemn and stoning was shown. Well, it's been over a hundred years. In the course of a 20th century convulsion only at the end of the same Spain managed to overcome a long, cruel and anachronistic dictatorship. From a controlled transition - transition to the end - a new democratic coexistence pact was successfully sealed and Europe was first approved. Throughout this time our peoples have continued to give birth to the children and grandchildren who today inhabit the industrial belts of Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao, Valencia, but also of Alicante, Vigo, Seville, Santander, while those same peoples have been languishing for the lack of a future to offer to the families who once raised them. European aid came, the long-awaited CAP, first the European Regional Development Fund, then the EAFRD funds, the European Social Fund, the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, and successive governments contained bloodshed in rural areas by managing the entry of financial sap from Europe, but that, without ever planning a coherent plan for productive modernisation, no prospect of real development for rural areas, no conscious will to impact on the deep and ancestral inequalities or to end some of the most shameful pockets of poverty on the continent. And so it happened that, despite the millions that rained from Europe, the average monthly income of a family living in the rural environment in Spain is today about 400 euros lower than that of a family in the urban environment. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, the recent Eurostat reports on unemployment, poverty and deprivation show disparately the deterioration of the quality of life in rural areas compared to urban areas in these long years of crisis, which is already a long lost decade. Today the population at risk of exclusion in rural areas is 33%, while in cities it is 25%. The population at risk of material deprivation is also 28% in rural areas, while in urban areas it is 18. We had to wait until 2007 for a legislative project worthy of such a name for the Spanish rural environment to finally emerge in Spain. As never before in our country - perhaps at least since Costa's own time - a long-term vision for the collective and balanced development of our rural areas was projected. Most social organizations agree to point out the relevance of Law 45/2007 on sustainable rural development in this regard. Finally, the rural problem was promoted to the category of State policy, not only because of what the political forces that encouraged it then shared with each other, but also because of the incorporation of recognized experts, collectives, trade unions and social organizations into the work that led to their approval. In this way, the Union of Small Farmers, the Coordinator of Agricultural and Livestock Organizations, the Rural Action Forum, the Spanish Rural Platform or the Spanish Rural Development Network were also able to contribute to this national debate. Indeed, it was during the Zapatero Government - and we have no difficulty in saying this - when it was finally aimed at a national, integral and inclusive rural policy, respectful of the local reality and with the competences of each area of autonomous and municipal power. Through the above-mentioned law, a whole participatory methodology was implemented, really from bottom up, at the service of sustainable development and incorporating new planning tools; planning, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that proscribed word. The coverage of the actions was intended to reach the more than 15.5 million citizens who live just over 84% of our territory. A total of 219 rural areas were identified for direct action, of which 105 were identified as a priority. The aim was to curb the continued depopulation in all regions with population densities below 10 inhabitants/square kilometer and in municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants through the start-up of what were called reception offices for new inhabitants. In the field of education, it was agreed to extend the model of rural school group to all scattered areas. As far as health was concerned, it was intended that all health centres would have standard basic equipment, emergencies and mobile ground care units. With regard to social protection, we sought to extend the Unit Act to rural areas but with quality and wide coverage, so that support for caregivers would be real and effective, something essential to advance gender equality in rural areas, since we cannot forget that in our peoples an entire generation of women between the ages of forty and five and sixty has become the only support for the survival of their children and older persons. The aim was also to promote the creation of rural employment by promoting nurseries for agri-food businesses in municipalities with more than 5,000 inhabitants. Finally, with a view to protecting biodiversity, a priority action plan was requested in all the municipalities included in what was called Red Natura 2000 within the framework of the area plans. The implementation of this law should entail a budgetary effort for the period 2010-2015, which can be extended until 2016, of EUR 1,810 million. It covered actions which were the competence of the Autonomous Communities but which were financed at 50% from the General Budgets of the State. The contribution commitment was therefore approximately EUR 900 million, with a constant financial path of EUR 180 million per year. In addition, the sustainable development programme provided for a series of actions considered of general interest to be carried out directly by the General Administration of the State and for which an expenditure forecast of some €53 million was made. However, Minister, there was never - and I stress - a memory of the implementation of progress in the first few years, either of one or of the other. The recent General State Budgets barely distinguish the trace of this Rural Development Act. Why? Probably because already since the beginning of the period, but especially since 2013, the Rajoy government has launched a secret strategy of cuts on these plans; cuts as wild as those that have suffered most budget items destined for social spending and that have led to the deterioration of the quality of life of many Spaniards. In this way, agricultural income has fallen by 37% in Spain over the last ten years - it is Eurostat's data, Minister, do not put that face - and today it is 45% lower than the rest of the productive sectors. Throughout the years of the Law 45/2007, where we had to have witnessed a modernizing deployment aimed at the progress of rural areas, we have witnessed a sinking. [[The lady]] On the other hand, and with its usual lack of democratic sensitivity, the Government of the People's Party has despised social organizations, most of which have been fighting for the recovery of the rural environment for many years. Since 2012, this Government has not reconvened any of the areas of coordination of rural development policy, either the Rural Council or the National Bureau of Rural Associations, whose role was to monitor the implementation of the law. Precisely, Minister, I have a letter signed by these organizations that I intend to hand over to you - that is, with all the decorum that I will be able to do - at the end of this speech. But there you are, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, so ufano they and they, what does it matter to jump into the torera the laws in force, right? What's more to despise the normative order, than other times, that does serve as an alibi to justify their stillness regarding the situation in Catalonia. What matters is the Spanish countryside if you already feel that you have taken over your votes. I began my intervention alluding to the dark prophecy of Joaquín Costa. I am going to dare here today with another prophecy, perhaps more modest, but also something more luminous. The years will run, ladies and gentlemen, generations who have lived their entire lives in fear will eventually die. Today's parents will be the grandparents and grandmothers of tomorrow and a renewed, conscious and proud youth will occupy the villages and fields of Spain. And just as we have already won them elections in the country's main urban centres, we will win them in rural areas. You don't know that, but that change is already underway. The demographic clock is progressing inexorably, and sooner or later we will be detached at the end of the barren caciquism and the structural delay to which yours have condemned us for centuries. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u147	Thank you very much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, one thing we all agree on is the importance of our rural environment. We need him to be alive, to have quality of life and, above all, to have prospects for the future. The governments of the People's Party have always been characterized by their special sensitivity and concern for the rural environment, which is why people recognize it. If anyone defends the interests of our camp and the people living in it, they are the governments of the People's Party. And not only do we defend them in Spain, but also in the eyes of all the Community institutions, which is where rural development policies are largely decided. Rural development and the challenge of curbing its abandonment require cross-cutting analysis. The Government is therefore giving a multisectoral approach to this challenge. Due to the importance attached to it, the Conference of Presidents, held on 17 January 2017, agreed on the establishment of the Government Commissioner for the Demographic Challenge, under the Vice-Presidentship of the Government and the Minister of Finance and Public Service. Its functions include the development and development of a national strategy in the face of the demographic challenge of the set of proposals, measures and actions necessary to achieve the balance of the population pyramid, both those corresponding to the General Government of the State and those that may result from support and collaboration with other public administrations. It shall also seek as much information as is necessary for the performance of its functions and receive from the various ministerial departments and from the public bodies attached to them the information necessary for the performance of those functions. It shall regularly report to the Government on the activities carried out and the results achieved, as well as on any proposals it deems necessary for the proper performance of its function. A forthcoming Council of Ministers will approve the establishment of a working group to define the national strategy in the face of the demographic challenge. The task of the group will be the analysis and study of the possible measures that can be incorporated into this national strategy in the face of the demographic challenge - this strategy will have to be completed in this 2017 exercise - and to design a joint and future response to alleviate the problem of the demographic challenge that affects all Spanish society and the rural environment, both in terms of general demographic tensions and problems of depopulation in specific areas. Among other things, opportunities to set and attract people to rural areas will be explored. At the same time, the needs for infrastructure and services in these areas will be studied. This group, chaired by the Government Commissioner for the Demographic Challenge, will represent all departments with responsibilities in this area. One representative of each autonomous community and cities with autonomy status as well as two representatives of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces may be included in the group. In short, Your Honor, the structure of this commissioner will have the participation of different departments and of all the autonomous communities, thus simplifying one of the main problems arising from the implementation of Law 45/2017: the governance and the complexity of the functioning of the bodies created. On the other hand, last December, the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council approved an extra allocation of almost 5.5 billion euros for 2017 to meet, among others, some of the competition services of the autonomous communities as important for the rural environment as health and education. We are aware of the importance of development to prevent women from leaving rural areas more markedly and from going to cities or regions, especially if they do not find adequate professional opportunities. The 10th Legislature approved, within the framework of the Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities, the Plan for the Promotion of Rural Women, with the involvement of six departments and a total of eighty-two actions. Furthermore, as I mentioned in my appearance in the Committee on Agriculture in this House, a strategy for modernising and diversifying the rural environment will be drawn up which will primarily promote generational relevancy in agriculture and the technical improvement of agricultural activity and the impetus to innovation in farms. We also know that for the rural environment the most advanced communication technologies are of great importance to facilitate the implementation and development of new economic activities, as well as access to small mountain centres and many other basic infrastructures that have to be a reality also in the rural environment. Minister Nadal has announced a national broadband extension programme that will ensure 30 megabyte coverage in 2020 in 98% of the national territory and 2% by satellite. Ladies and gentlemen, as the autonomous communities responsible for rural development and spatial planning, this Government is very concerned, and very concerned, that the Spanish rural environment has quality of life and possibilities for the future. In your speech, it poses a rather negative situation in rural areas and we share with you the need to strengthen actions in favour of our rural environment. It describes Law 45/2007 as the panacea to solve all these evils. The objective of this law and its instrument of implementation - the sustainable rural development programme, adopted in 2010 and in force until 2017 - articulated the implementation of multisectoral measures in the most depressed or restricted rural areas and at greater risk of being abandoned. The People's Parliamentary Group shared the objectives of this law, but from the outset it showed its doubts; doubts over competition issues, doubts over technical issues and, of course, doubts over budgetary issues, because this law was announced with funds but was born without funds and its implementation was embodied in a complex decision-making system. All these problems, together with the economic crisis that forced the Socialist Government to take budgetary restraint measures in both 2010 and 2011, made the law unenforceable, a law whose handling was not an example of participation. The preliminary draft was commissioned to Tragsa, the text - prepared in forty days - was sent to the Autonomous Communities and seventeen days later it was approved by the Council of Ministers as a draft law, which provoked a huge controversy with the Autonomous Communities for reasons of a competitive nature. In the economic memory - arising from the processing of the law, which was not in its beginnings - were previewed 500 million euros to the year of contribution of the State during the period 2008-2013. The truth is that in four years, until 2011, barely 100 million euros arrived. The law enforcement tool was zone plans. In 2011, only six autonomous communities had approved them five years later. Law 45/2007, as already announced and foreseen by the People's Group in the parliamentary debate, suffered from technical deficiencies and budgetary problems, in addition to competition problems, since most of the actions envisaged were the competence of the Autonomous Communities, as they stated. The reality that we find ourselves in January 2012, six years after its adoption, is that only La Rioja had signed the corresponding convention for the implementation of its sustainable rural development programme, like Galicia, which was financed by the current Government. Agriculture, and in general the associated activity of processing agricultural products, is very important for the rural environment because it not only avoids their depopulation, but also provides other activities and services that favour the settlement of the population in these areas. The negotiation of the CAP is particularly important in view of the fact that the policies on agriculture and rural development that have been implemented in Spain have largely been Community policies. That is why, for this government, the defence of the interests of the rural environment before the Community institutions is a priority, as is the defence of the Community's budgets. This is why we are negotiating for Spain more than EUR 47 billion for our rural areas, rather than the budget for the previous programming period, in a context of reducing the Community budget. This gives stability to the agricultural sector, to the rural environment, for many activities until 2020. That is why they rely on the governments of the People's Party in rural areas. It is clear that, despite the efforts made by the various administrations, this has not been enough to prevent large areas of the rural environment from continuing to suffer from a gradual abandonment of both population and economic activity and a high rate of ageing and masculinization. I'm done. As noted in the agreement of the Sixth Conference of Presidents on the National Strategy against the Demographic Challenge, demographic problems particularly affect some territories, such as rural areas, because of their greater degree of ageing, dispersion, extraterritoriality or insularity. The work to be carried out will have a holistic and multisectoral approach based on cooperation between all levels of government and all administrations involved, so that the best solutions to these complex challenges are found. In short, the Government has placed this issue on the national political agenda and will work to seek the collaboration and concert of all in a matter on which our future and that of the Spanish population depends. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Guijarro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, the first thing I wanted to say before I came into this is that we have talked about divination skills in this House, but frankly I was surprised by yours. You really bring in the written intervention and you are able to anticipate what we are going to say in this House. Frankly, Costa's and mine's abilities are completely obscured with that divinatory capacity of theirs. [[Applauds]] The Rules of Procedure of the Senate have passed to me; it is clear that the speaker in the rostrum cannot read. It's a good thing this isn't the Senate because if we don't, we might have some kind of problem. In these five minutes of time I have wanted to touch basically three points that have already been made here this morning. Firstly, the Commissioner's topic in the face of the demographic challenge. One more initiative from the Government; it reminds me of convening commissions and offices so that nothing changes. We're in some kind of permanent planning thesis - we're going to plan - but really nothing is ever done. I think that in 2015 the Senate also had meetings in this regard, addressed the problem of the rural environment, a lot of things were planned and, as always, blah, blah. It's all in rubber water. On the other hand, it is good to tackle the problem of depopulation in rural areas, but the problem of depopulation responds to an economic structure, responds to a social structure and responds, as you have said, to the ageing of the population, to masculinization, etc. I mean, if we don't affect the roots of that problem, we can already put in too many overpopulation offices, which we will continue with the Spanish countryside completely emptied. On the other hand, I have regretted that in that prepared and divinative intervention that you brought in you did not pronounce on the control forums, where social organizations are also supposed to be convened, since it was hoped that, as defined in the Rural Development Act, they would be able to exercise control. As I said earlier in my speech, I believe that these organizations have not been convened in recent years, we are now going to four. Maybe in four years there could have been three, two meetings, but there hasn't been any. What kind of accounting, some would say, can be done with a government that does not submit to the spaces that set the law? The same law that you speak of when you refer to Catalonia, I insist. Finally, and finally, Minister, the data are irrefutable. The quality of life in the Spanish countryside is not only below the quality of life in urban areas, but has collapsed in the last ten years. Explain to me what the government has done, apart from filling leaflets and leaflets, and planning, and convening commissions and so on. In practice, Minister, almost nothing has been done, and again I take the almost decorum, which is very fashionable in this House. Of course, as I say, it does not seem that the Government's effort was at all in line with the needs that are being suffered in the Spanish countryside. I don't know what the minister is thinking, I don't know if we're going to call again a new hypersupercommission that's going to over-plan what's already planned. In 2007, a law was made, a very good law, by the way, as we said before, with the help of social organizations and other political parties. Why isn't the law enforced, Minister? You comply with the law and leave commissions and other organizations and other offices. Simply take the text, follow it step by step and do what the current law tells you to do. That's how we solve the problem. That's how we solve depopulation, that's how we solve masculinization, aging. With that we solve a lot of things that seem that, unfortunately, you are not seeing as an overview. It is thought that by playing certain keys you will solve an atavic problem in this country. Either we face the problem with a general, integral, integrative approach, or we will have it as I said before for all eternity. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u151	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u152	Thank you very much, Madam President. In rural areas in Spain and throughout Europe on many occasions the only and main alternative to employment is the agricultural and agri-food sector. Their presence prevents depopulation and encourages the emergence of other activities and services that provide the vitality and attractiveness necessary for the settlement and growth of the population. Let me use the replica shift to talk about the aspect of the rural environment that I know best. Your Honor, the People's Party government believes enormously in Spanish farmers and farmers. We're proud of them and their work, and they know it. The People's Party Government is convinced of the enormous potential of the food sector. We work together with the sector to make it a global reference; indeed, in many areas we are already. Your Honor, the rural environment is full of entrepreneurial men and women, entrepreneurs, who with their agricultural activity generate wealth and work to take advantage of the opportunities of the global market, in which their products are increasingly present, that global market in which you do not believe. You propose the recovery of public control of the agri-food sector. His idea of future for our farmers and farmers, for the main economic activity of 6,673 rural municipalities of just over 8,000 Spanish municipalities is to nationalize the Spanish food sector. Leo textually: creation of state-owned enterprises that provide these services universally. They propose - also textual - expropriations and communal management. I understand that you think of the koljos of the Soviet Union and we all know that it was not a model that brought exactly prosperity. In Venezuela, the agricultural sector has also been the subject of very important expropriations; food is not plentiful there. They propose the suppression of technology for our agriculture, returning it to the first half of the 20th century, prior to the green revolution. He's in his election programs. They propose to isolate Spanish agriculture, depriving it of the opportunities of international trade. In Spain our farmers and farmers export between 25 and 30% of their production, and international trade is a direct source of wealth for them and for the rural environment. You ensure that minimum prices are guaranteed, something legally impossible, because it is contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Its approaches are directly contrary to the interests of Spanish farmers and farmers, contrary to those of the Spanish food industry and contrary and thus harmful to the Spanish rural environment. We want professional farmers and farmers, competitive, dynamic, innovative, productive, world leaders, as we are in so many sectors. You despise the potential and the freedom of production of the Spanish agricultural sector. I'll give you some data on what our sector has done over the past five years. Our position in the external markets has greatly improved. Today we export wine and olive oil to more than 160 countries, pork to 108, citrus to 79 and fruit to 70. In 2011 the Spanish agri-food sector accounted for 8% of the national gross domestic product; today more than 10%. In 2011, the Spanish food sector exported €31 billion; today it exceeds €46.8 billion, more than 50% growth in the global presence of our products in international trade, which facilitates international trade agreements. In 2016 the agricultural income by UTA reached its record figure: 30,781 euros. And it is true that in the VIII and IX legislatures the agrarian income fell, but you have had to take data from income references long before those of the People's Party government to say that the agrarian income has fallen, because with the People's Party government it has recovered in the last five years. In January 2017 exports increased by almost 16% compared to January 2016, and final agricultural production in 2016 reached a record value of EUR 46,807 million. All are indicators that have an upward trend, although some of them may fluctuate. For the integration of young people, the Government will promote the national strategy for rural modernization and diversification, but will focus on supporting the development of entrepreneurial and entrepreneurial capacities, by the sector, working with them as we have done and in collaboration with the autonomous communities, which are competent not only in agriculture but also in rural development. We are aware of the challenges and needs facing our sector. We have invested in infrastructure and we are making progress in digitizing the rural environment. We have been working for five years to give the sector tools to grow, to encourage individual entrepreneurship of producers, who are decisive in rural development, and do not deserve nationalisation and interventionism in your proposed activity. I invite you to visit the sector more and know its true reality, which is, because worldwide our food sector - people living in rural development - is called to be a great power. In order to achieve this, it will always have the confidence, support, support and impetus of the measures needed by this Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u153	Thank you very much. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the position of the Government in relation to the situation of the Vascos subject to serious anti-territory legislation. [[Mrs. BEITIALARRANGOITIA]] [[File number 172/000038]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u154	We shall now proceed to the urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde, concerning the position of the Government with regard to the situation of the Basque prisoners and prisoners subjected to seriously ill anti-terrorist legislation.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Today, we are asking the Government about the situation of Basque prisoners subjected to seriously ill anti-terrorist legislation. We are talking about prisoners whose situation calls for urgent solutions, and who, with the application of existing Spanish and international legislation and with a humanitarian attitude, have an easy solution, not for their diseases anymore, since in all cases they are incurable diseases, but at least to have real possibilities of a dignified treatment for them and of favourable living conditions for the treatment they require, something incompatible with the prison, which only makes their situation worse. Prison by definition is a closed and limited structure that directly affects those suffering from illness, whether of any kind. In addition, the internal rules of prisons are aimed at the control of prisoners and the security of the same prison, which affects prisoners, especially those suffering from mental illness, because the characteristics of this type of disease require other treatment. In other words, in addition to the incompatibility of the disease with the closed regime, it can lead to self-destructive actions, including suicide. To this we must add the extraordinary prison policy that applies to this collective, a special policy that the Government recognizes and boasts of imposing, which makes exceptions in the rights that assist them and makes the ordinary conditions of life in prison more severe. The consequences of this on sick prisoners are even more evident as a result of the isolation measures applied to them, the moments of tension they are experiencing and frequent prison or cell transfers due to their full control. All this creates added problems, in addition to difficulties for the proper follow-up of the evolution of the disease due to poor dietary-hygienic assistance, the extremely lengthy procedures for consultations, unacceptable conditions in the transfers, and the systematic refusal to receive visits from trusted medical professionals, which does not comply with the principle of equivalence and balance between the disease and the objective analysis that it requires, as a result of which there is no correct diagnosis. They all conform to a number of factors that directly affect the cases of sick people that I will mention below, and that with the law in hand and for humanity they should be free to deal with their disease under appropriate and dignified conditions. State and international legislation offer clear and fully applicable mechanisms if there is a will to do so. We assume that the right to health and to decent health care is a fundamental right of every human being. When we refer to the right to health, we do so in the terms defended by the World Health Organization, which is not limited to the right we have to be healthy, but the right to health means that States and their Governments must create the necessary conditions to enable all people to live as healthy as possible. Thus, despite the fact that prisoners have limited rights by judicial decision, they do not have their health rights, and therefore have to have the same rights as other patients with regard to the development and worsening of their diseases. This is acknowledged by the Spanish Constitution itself - you who are such defenders of existing legislation - which recalls that human rights standards must be interpreted in accordance with the universal declaration and international treaties ratified by the State, in addition to providing that any convicted person shall enjoy all his or her rights, except those limited by the content of the conviction. Even the Penal Code provides for conditional release for those prisoners who, according to medical reports, are very seriously ill with incurable conditions. If we resort to the General Organic Penitentiary Act or the Prison Regulations, these provide, even for prisoners who are classified in the first degree, the possibility of being classified as a third party for humanitarian and personal dignity reasons, as well as the granting of conditional release in the case of very serious patients with incurable conditions. At no time does the legislation in force say that this should assume that the prisoner is about to die, as the Government seems to interpret following the internal circular that according to the press has sent the Directorate-General of Prison Institutions to prisons. We have not been able to confirm until now whether this news is true, despite having asked the Government a written question about it; I hope that the Minister will be able to clarify it to us throughout this inquiry. In any case, and if true, the Government would show its cruel action towards these prisoners, in addition to being contrary to the law, and it is that it not only violates its own legislation, it also violates the Mandela rules adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2015. They not only emphasize the need to release prisoners with psychological illnesses, but also define a comprehensive standard of medical care in prison radically different from that applied to Basque prisoners to whom we refer. The Government's action therefore deviates from the legislation, from humanitarian treatment, and denies conditional release or imprisonment attenuated to Basque prisoners on purely political grounds, with the latter over strictly medical ones. That said, they will allow me to tell them about the severity of the diseases these prisoners suffer, and to give names and diagnoses to some of the most serious cases, without prejudice to the fact that they should all be released. Two of them are in France, Oier Gómez and Ibon Fernandez Iradi, and most of them in Spanish prisons. Jagoba Codo has a negative B27 ankylosing spondylitis, as well as a multipathology picture. This makes it difficult for you to perform daily activities, such as getting dressed, getting up from bed or looking from one side to the other. You need adequate medical assistance and pharmacological treatment, as well as physical therapy and proper feeding. He has recently and precisely been awarded the second degree for having a serious illness. Manu Azkarate has been affected since childhood by portal vein cavernoma, with a serious risk of digestive bleeding and severe circulatory complications. It requires very strict care, follow-up and treatment. Already in 1992 he was on the verge of dying with severe hemorrhages, and his stay in prison poses an added risk. José Ramón López de Abetxuko suffers from systemic bradycardia, atrial fibrillation, prostate adenoma, cervical arthrosis, bilateral coxarthrosis and coxalgia. You must have control of your heart function, avoid stress situations and lead a healthy way of life, which is very difficult in prison. The excess efforts are harmful to him, despite which he has been forced to make numerous transfers of cell or module having to transfer their belongings. Josetxo Arizkuren has repeated pains of epigastrium, dyspnea and precordial oppression. Getting to the diagnosis of what he is suffering has been complicated, as the numerous prison changes to which he has been subjected have made it difficult. Although the pains began in 2008 it was not until 2011 when he was diagnosed with severe ischemic heart disease. Heart disease disorders require very strict monitoring and follow-up and adequate living conditions to prevent disease deterioration. Arigoitz Arruarte was diagnosed with bilateral acute uveitis, which affects his eyes, and ankylosing spondylitis, so the stay in prison is totally detrimental to his health, and that can bring with it a degeneration that will increase faster. Iñaki Etxeberria has a diagnosis of long-lasting magna myopia, bilateral glaucoma and afachy; what was initially a great myopia brought with it other consequences. He does not receive adequate health care in prison, and the latest transfers have curbed the appropriate treatment for his illness. Gorka Fraile was diagnosed with epidermoid carcinoma in the back of the tongue; as in all cases of cancer, it also needs close follow-up. Joseba Borde has a well-differentiated 5 cm adenocarcinoma, a tumor neoformation in the disc area of the colon. Another case of cancer. Chus Martín has paranoid schizophrenia and general anxiety disorder; after having been subjected to long periods of isolation, a total of eight years, and hard situations tried to cut his veins, so he has applied the protocol of aid with risk of suicide, which means being accompanied the twenty-four hours by another prisoner. He has suffered serious paranoid crises, hears voices and often has meaningless conversations, it is difficult for him to concentrate. Two years ago he was paralyzed by the whole left side, even the speech, with which to the impossibility of taking care of himself was added the impossibility that someone could know what was happening to him. He has requested to be able to serve the sentence in reduced prison at his home, since he is in second grade, but has not been granted. Even so, it is the prison that has decided to put him in second grade, to move him to Zaballa most likely because of the severity of the disease he suffers, and we wonder why the last step has not been taken and he has been allowed to be attenuated as permitted by law. Also in the case of Aitor Gogorza, the application of article 100.2 of the prison regulations, which provides for a situation of this gravity to serve the sentence outside of prison, in a manner attenuated, at his home. Aitor Gogorza has been taken from prison to the hospital on twenty-eight occasions, due to his obsessive-compulsive disorder. In the last six months, six hospitalizations have accumulated. The main problem is the risk of suicide and recurrent death ideas that invade your mental functioning due to the disease. In recent years he has tried to commit suicide on three occasions, and has been saved thanks to the rapid action of his cellmate, who is with him for 24 hours. He was diagnosed with obsessive-compulsive imbalance years ago; during the former he had oscillations, but he was able to control himself. But things began to get worse with his extradition and imprisonment in Spanish prisons. It was a sudden and severe deterioration. He's lost touch with reality, has obsessive ideas and self-destructive functioning. In his case, treatment outside prison would be complicated, difficult to cure, impossible and incurable in prison and with a much greater risk of worsening. Finally, I will mention the case of Ibon Iparragire, who has HIV infection in C-3 state, with severe neurological injuries caused by AIDS; episodes of epilepsy, visual disturbances, memory loss and the notion of space. His stay in prison has led to alterations and disorders, both in his behavior and in his thinking. We could sum up by saying that he has AIDS, a mental illness and that he does not see it, and this also makes him a victim of aggression and theft. The fact is that he has a real risk of death and prison is not compatible with this disease. In Italy, for example, an AIDS patient would be released just because he had this disease without any other conditioning. All the prisoners I have mentioned - I have done it quickly, because there are many and I wanted to give them some details of the cases - because of the fact of suffering serious diseases, they are immediate creditors of the right to liberty. They are incarcerated with incurable suffering and should therefore have urgent access to parole, due to their deteriorating state of health outside any other consideration. They are prisoners with ailments that the prison is not able to mitigate, on the contrary, it only makes them worse, and that is why we are questioning the Government on this matter. Imagine the state that believes that it is the most guarantor of the rights of prisoners in Europe. You go to a Scandinavian state, perhaps to a European centre, do you think you would find any situation that is not remotely similar to what I have described? Well, no. That is why we are directly asking the Government, and with this question I conclude and will gladly answer the Minister's answer to me: does the Government intend to, in accordance with Spanish and international legislation, prioritizing medical and humanitarian criteria, to take the necessary steps to ensure that these seriously ill persons have access to parole or reduced prison? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u156	Thank you very much. I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u157	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Government in this case, as in all those affecting criminal execution, cannot be other than strict compliance with the law and scrupulous respect for judicial decisions, and more specifically those of the prison supervisory courts, which have a great deal to do with the subject you have brought here today, Your Honor. I want to make a couple of points in the first place. The first is that Basque prisoners to whom you referred, as Spaniards who are, are not subject to specific penal and prison legislation, are subject to the same as the rest of the Spanish prisoners. The Spanish Constitution as you know it does not allow discrimination of any kind, much less on grounds of birth and/or residence. Secondly, if your honor refers to those convicted of terrorism, which I believe you have done, I will tell you that criminal and prison legislation is the same for anyone who is imprisoned for a terrorist crime, regardless of where you were born or the criminal organization to which you belong, be it ETA, Grapo, jihadism, etc. Prison legislation and the penal law therefore provide for formulas for prisoners who suffer from serious illnesses with incurable conditions to be granted parole by suspending the sentence for circumstances, precisely those circumstances of incurable conditions. Obviously, when all the requirements are met, this is agreed. Article 104.4 of the prison regulations makes it possible for very serious sick prisoners with incurable conditions, according to medical reports, to be classified in third grade for humanitarian reasons and also for personal dignity, in view of the difficulty of delinquency. For its part, and continuing with the description in the Spanish legislation in force, the Penal Code provides for the possibility of suspending the execution of the rest of the sentence, including probation, in the case of very serious ill prisoners with incurable sufferings, provided that they meet the requirements of article 90 of the Criminal Code, except that they have served three quarters, two thirds or even half of their sentence. Especially relevant, Your Honor, are the reforms introduced in the current Penal Code, which in its article 90.7 provides for the possibility for the person concerned himself to directly request the prison supervisory judge to suspend the sentence for probation, a request which the prison supervisory judge will decide ex officio. That said, the surprising thing is that you are only concerned about certain prisoners, which is what you have come here to argue. He asked his lordship about the Basque prisoners subject to anti-terrorist legislation who are sick. He obviously asks, as usual, for the prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA or who are related to them, because we already know that you put your energies and interests on terrorists much more than on their victims, on murderers and not on the victims. I mean, I insist, they put the defense of the killers' interests and never on the victims of terrorism. I will be very clear, our democracy does not classify prisoners because of their place of origin; it does not distinguish between Basque, Moroccan or other territorial prisoners. In Spain there are no prisoners by place of birth; in Spain what is being pursued is the crime, and that is what all your lords know, and it is that your lordship refers to the prisoners of ETA, prisoners condemned for belonging to or collaborating with the terrorist band ETA; people who, by the way, have different origins: there are Basques, Navarros and other Spanish origins, even of other nationalities; and on the other hand, there are many prisoners linked to Euskadi who have nothing to do with terrorism, and there are also many victims of terrorism who are Basques and who, of course, do not deserve their killers to be identified simply as Basque prisoners. You ask, Your Honor, with great interest about the Government's position with regard to ETA prisoners, and I assure you that this Government, as it could not otherwise be, will strictly comply with the legal order by applying the rules provided for in the current prison legislation, and without making concessions for those who reject the measures provided for in it. Fulfilling and enforcing the law is our commitment and it is also our duty; our duty with the rules that we have given ourselves, and which involves enforcing the law with all citizens alike, regardless of the crimes they have committed, and despite the fact that democracy grants them the same rights precisely to those who have most strongly attacked it and attacked the Democrats; our duty and our commitment to the obligation to comply with the law of course, but also the requirements that the law establishes for prisoners convicted of terrorist crimes, with which this Government will, in principle, be extremely vigilant and rigorous. I remind your ladies and gentlemen that we are all obliged to respect the laws, and we will be absolutely demanding to comply with them. There will be no transactions or concessions with those who have caused so much suffering, so much pain and so many years of fear in our society, let alone now that the strength of the Democrats has been able to place the terrorists at the gates of their disappearance. Ladies and gentlemen, I must insist that the Spanish Prison Administration is a solid body of civil servants of the State who every day work in an area that is complex, complicated and I dare say that it is hard and also dangerous; a body of women and men who daily demonstrate their professionalism and their commitment to the public service, in an environment that they will understand that it is difficult, as is the prison sphere. It is precisely these officials who are best aware of the evolution, situation and needs of the prison population, and of course they are great professionals who bear the great responsibility for complying with prison legislation. On the other hand, the health of prisoners - all of them - is one of the major concerns of officials, officials and officials of the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions, and they are dedicated to this with great concern, responsibility and professionalism. Terrorist prisoners, such as those who are not, are guaranteed the protection of their right to health through the proper means of prison health, and also through the hospital assistance of public network centres in each and every Autonomous Community. When the requirements for access to the prison formula, justified by the seriousness of their ailments, are assessed, the appropriate decisions are adopted either by the prison administration or by the judicial authority, as I have already said. Ultimately, in the case of terrorist prisoners - as in all - the Government does what it does is to enforce the law and the sentences of the courts. The honourable Member is reassured that there is no person convicted of terrorism at this time who cannot be served by medical services, whether in prisons or in the public health system. Therefore the health care is calm that it is fully guaranteed for all prisoners, also for those with links in the Basque Country, even if you do not ask for them. Also for terrorist prisoners, which you have referred to and seem to be the ones you are interested in. I repeat, Your Honor, that you may be calm, that those terrorists who are currently suffering from some kind of disease are receiving the necessary assistance they need through the public health network, I insist, and all of them are subject to the relevant medical checks, which assess whether their development results in situations requiring the initiation of the early release procedure, which is also provided for in the current legislation. In none of the cases has it been found that the degree of illness suffered by these inmates is reviewed enough to be able to implement the mechanism of anticipation of their freedom, much less that this disease is at a stage where the danger of it is evident to the life of the intern. In conclusion, I would like first of all to express the Government's firm commitment not only to the law, as has been evident in this inquiry, but also to justice, the necessary justice with the families that have lost their loved ones in the acts of greatest injustice possible. Secondly, our irrefutable commitment to memory, a just memory that puts everyone in their place. That is our duty as public officials, and from here I tell you that that will be our north in the fight against terrorism. Your Honor, I have here the relationship of all the diseases that the prisoners of the terrorist band ETA suffer in Spanish prisons; I will not give the names to protect people's data. You've named certain diseases, I'm not going to name them, I have them all, but to quote some case, when you talked about a language cancer that affects a prisoner, I have to say that this one was intervened without signs of regional recurrence, has weight gain, sports and has a next review in June 2017. He's been talking about a prisoner with a history of ischemic heart disease. The last review, as recorded in the file, was made on March 2nd of this year: echo of effort with negative result; discharged by the hospital's cardiology service. I quote a third case: surgery in May 2016 by low-grade colon adenocarcinoma, with no need for radiation therapy or chemotherapy; periodic reviews. Your Honor, I am sorry that there are sick people in Spanish prisons as I am sorry that there are sick people in Spain, but using these arguments to come here and not to talk about the victims or the pain of so many families seems to me to be using a double measuring rod. From the Government of Spain we know who the killers are and who the victims are and from there no one is going to separate us. On the other hand, let it be clear that human rights are safeguarded, but in this case there is no one who suffers from a disease to the extent that he advises his release from prison for this reason. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarralgoitia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u159	Thank you, Madam President. The minister speaks of scrupulous compliance with the law and tells me that all prisoners are subject to the same law. If what you're trying to tell me is that whatever the cause that has led a person to prison is being applied to them all isolation, continuous transfers, removal, impediment of entry of trusted professionals, poor dietary and hygienic assistance and lengthy procedures for consultations that make it difficult for them to have a certain diagnosis and, therefore, the treatment and follow-up of the disease, I will tell you that I ask you the same for absolutely all the prisoners. If I have mentioned the prisoners specifically to whom an exceptional policy is applied, it is because I believe that it is, because I believe that this policy applies exceptionally to Basque prisoners. But under no circumstances will this group support the application of such policies to any person who is in prison, whatever cause they may have been brought to prison, or even to anyone who goes for corruption and is part of the People's Party, to anyone. I believe that all people need humanitarian treatment, legal treatment, and that if they are sick they can be treated properly. Of course, they are not classified by their place of origin, but by the causes that have led them to prison. That's the difference and that's the term you didn't want to use. He also talks about a commitment to memory. Look, when we talked about victims in this Chamber, I talked about victims and I didn't need to bring up another topic. I think the victims need recognition and reparation, but not at the expense of being inhuman to others. You're the one who's mixed up the themes. Every time a subject is brought to this Chamber I try to stick to the issue and on this occasion I was talking about prisoners. Whenever you want to talk about victims, I don't have any inconvenience. For us to move towards a future of coexistence with solid foundations, we will also have to talk about the victims. But since you say you have a commitment to memory, I hope that in the future the memory will not have to leave you or the Government in a bad place if any of those prisoners - which does not happen - suffer a fatal outcome, because there is a real risk in some cases, especially in those who have psychological illnesses, that a fatal outcome occurs, say what you say. I've mentioned some data before. I have mentioned the three suicide attempts of a person who if they have not come to a fatal outcome it was because he was accompanied for the twenty-four hours by a companion, who has saved his life; it was not the prison system as such, but his companion. I therefore believe that this issue deserves a two-dimensional response in particular. I have mentioned them before and I will repeat them: legal and humanitarian. And I can add a third: the clear social demand in Euskal Herria for this issue to be resolved. Don't be mistaken, it's not a matter of concessions. The functioning of the rule of law is not propagated, it is demonstrated day by day and not by words, by deeds. That would be a good way to prove that the rule of law works because, today, with these prisoners, the legislation is not being implemented. You know as well as I do that the normalized application of the law could involve, at least, attenuated imprisonment and in some cases also provisional release. By the way, other people who have also been convicted of the same issues you mentioned here have been granted parole for years with attenuated prison, but this path has been short-circuited and that is the responsibility of the People's Party Government. There is, I insist, exceptional legality to prevent release, but there is also legality favourable to flexibility. I appeal to him to have humanity and, with the law in his hand, to be flexible. We do so, and most of Basque society does so, and it has also been done in Parliament, so that these prisoners can be released on parole. You've talked about the changes to the laws. Following the amendment of the Penal Code of 1996, twenty-one Basque prisoners were released for serious diseases, pursuant to articles 90 and 92. The exceptional change made in 2003 brought with it the imposition of new requirements, which resulted in the cessation of prison sentences, and since then only two have emerged. But there are also prisoners who have been able to serve and who today are serving their sentences at home, even though they are under strict security measures; they exceed half a dozen and have no more serious pathologies than those who are today in prison, in some cases they are very similar. I want to make that clear to you too. The right to health is universal, I have said before, it is a right that we all have by law and you are denying that right to these people; you are denying it. By telling me when you've had the last hospitalization or treatment you're not telling me anything, with the difficulty you've had in getting to that and with the harm you cause and how incompatible it is. And if you do not rely on the diagnoses that have been made, we are willing to subject you to new diagnoses, to arrive at a real diagnosis among all of us, to have your trusted doctors and other doctors officially able to make a certain diagnosis. Because there are doctors, more than one and two, who have come to the same conclusion, there are even times when the judge has asked for another report because he did not trust the trusted doctor and has come to the same conclusion, that these diseases are incompatible with the stay in prison. If the primary purpose of custodial sentences is to achieve social reintegration, it is difficult to resocialize the sentenced person if he or she is being treated with his or her illness and is not properly applying the law to him or her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u160	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u161	Thank you very much, President. To make it clear to you, Your Honor, the discharge is not decided by the Minister of the Interior or the Government of Spain; the discharge is decided by the judicial authority, and you know it. He spoke of the right to universal health. I have explained to him that there is the health that is applied from the penitentiary institutions, from the centers, and when it is necessary to use the network of public health that we have throughout Spain, in each and every one of the communities. Therefore, Basque prisoners also have the right, like everyone else, to a universal health that they have guaranteed. You spoke of legal, humanitarian and social demand causes. The legal justification I have told you: we all have to comply with the law. The humanitarian reason is the one that is recognized precisely when the disease has certain characteristics and it is then when the existing legality is applied, as always. As far as social demand is concerned, for the time being it is yours and that of those who think like you, but it is not all the social demand of the Spanish people that a certain treatment be given to a number of people who are in prison not because they are independentists or nationalists, but because they are part of the terrorist band ETA that has shed so much pain and blood in Spain. [[Applauds]] You have again taken the case of a person who is sick. They're all here and they're with their different diagnoses. [[Show a document]] I am not a healthcare professional but it is true that obsessive disorders, which can lead some to an attempt at suicide, occur in prisoners of ETA and in prisoners who are not of ETA and for that there is a medical treatment. I am not the one who has to impose the appropriate treatment on this diagnosis, but they receive the same treatment as the other interns and have a twenty-four hour accompaniment. There are two ETA prisoners who have this diagnosis and in the case of the two figures that their condition is now stable and that they are accompanied by the persons who have been established, just as any other prisoner who is interned in the centres is accompanied. I insist, it is not known that any insider of the terrorist band ETA meets the requirements to be released for illness and none can be released. In the terms set out in advance and in accordance with criminal and prison legislation, there are none of the terrorists belonging to the ETA organization in prisons whose suffering or state of health could be decisive in initiating the procedure of early release. Those terrorists who are currently suffering from some kind of disease receive, I insist, health care through the care network of each autonomous community and also assistance at each centre. In no case has it been found that the degree of illness of the inmate reviewed the entity sufficient to be able to implement the mechanism of anticipation of his freedom, let alone that this disease is at a stage where the life of the inmate is in danger. He mentioned why instruction 3/2017 had been issued recently. So you can regulate and clarify the discharges due to illness. The circular aims to provide an organizational response in line with the legality set out in the latest reform of the 2015 Criminal Code, which modified the legal nature of probation by transmuting it into a suspension of sentence and introducing some innovations both in form and substance. The circulars, Your Honor, aim at the uniform application of management in administrative procedures and, in the case before us, have the complete assurance that it is respectful of the principle of normative hierarchy and, as it cannot otherwise be, does not violate the legality of the Prison Act or the Penal Code. It does not need to be made clear to you, Your Honor, that the internal circulars do not bind the judges or the courts, who in this matter are responsible - as I said at the beginning of this second intervention - for deciding on this type of release, without - as I have already said - the prison administration being entitled to challenge any of these decisions. The circular, which is respectful of the principle of regulatory hierarchy, aims to adapt the prison procedure to the new regulations introduced in article 91 of the Criminal Code, giving clear indications to all health services in prisons on how to proceed in these situations. I hope you have cleared up your doubts about the purpose and content of this circular. I'm done, Mr. President. Firm commitment to justice, firm commitment to memory and firm commitment to the victims of ETA terrorism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u162	Thank you very much. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF ECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS, ON THE ASSISTANCE OF A GLOBAL STRATEGY IN GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL POLICY. [[File number 172/000039]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u163	We then turn to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's urgent appeal to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness about the absence of a comprehensive strategy in the government's industrial policy. For your defence, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, it is essential for socialists to grow in order to be able to redistribute. Sustainable and sustained growth over time is essential, capable of generating quality employment, capable of generating income that can sustain our welfare state. And industry can and must play a very important role in this, because industry is the source of 80% of private innovation and three quarters of exports; it acts as a locomotive for multiple subsectors of services; it is characterized by a higher qualification of the workforce; it has a higher level of sectoral productivity than the rest of the sectors and, therefore, if we enhance it, we will achieve a higher average labour productivity across the economy. In addition, industry is a sector with a strong multiplier effect which generates on average, indirectly and indirectly, EUR 1.61 of gross domestic product per euro of industrial gross domestic product and 1.43 jobs per direct employment in industry. In recent years, economic growth is due more to the external synergies that have benefited us than to the policies of his Government: the fall in crude oil prices as an energy-dependent country or the expansive policies of the European Central Bank or insecurity in some traditionally tourist countries that have made us the first tourist receiver. But, despite our country's growth, employment does not grow at the same rate and neither does income from it. The work factor is not available to everyone and it also does not guarantee the well-being of the worker. In the latter it has had much to do with his Government's labour reform, only 6% of the contracts that are formalised are full-time. And it hurts me, it really hurts me, that job insecurity is part of Spain's brand today. There are fewer and fewer effective hours of average work per week and the evolution of the labour market is one of the first signs of the transformation and revolution in which we are immersed. In fact, today there is a certain consensus that we are faced with the fourth industrial revolution, in which the engine of the revolution is digital technologies based on the Internet. Faced with this new reality, his Government had proposed a very inconsistent ministerial restructuring including Industry in the Economy and Digital Agenda in Energy. I say it's inconsistent because the results show it. After five months of the formation of his Government and after the analysis of the budgets they presented yesterday, we do not see that they have a comprehensive, coordinated, cross-cutting strategy between the various ministries to face this great revolution that we are already experiencing and the new labor challenges with robotization, social, environmental, security, economic and technological challenges that haunt us. No one knows the scope of the Digital Agenda Ministry and, for the time being, each ministry goes to its own. The rapid advance of economic globalization, which is fostered by the exponential and dizzying development of new technologies, which has multiplied international trade networks by intensifying competition in all markets, forces an update and innovation in the different industrial sectors of all business product, process, organization and distribution systems so as not to lose competitiveness; a process of intelligent technological transformation of companies that involves a lot of investment in R & D, creativity, innovation and lifelong learning. The time taken to address this process will be crucial to ensuring the survival of the country's productive fabric in a competitive business world and in an increasingly globalized environment. According to the March OECD study Spain is behind the investment in R & D, a sign that you have been wasting time in this field for many years. Today it is said that the industry, over the next five years, will evolve in the same way as the previous fifty years and rapid, robust actions are needed to give the best response to the changes that are coming. However, his Government did not have a comprehensive industrial strategy, which was key to facing this new revolution that we had already noticed. In his appearance I asked him for his objective to comply with the Common European Reindustrialization Strategy 2020. I remember that my question remained important, highlighting the diffuse border between industry and services. However, industry is of great importance, even if its Government does not express it in this way, as I indicated at the beginning of my speech. Today we are talking about technology, science, research, innovation, energy, digitisation, environmental sustainability, but they are all just the parts that underpin, give value and guarantee the industry of today and the future. Today there are more and more knowledge-intensive industrial sectors - the video game industry, the pharmaceutical industry, the cosmetics industry, the aerospace industry - traditional sectors that have also evolved as technical textiles, a sector that I can tell you I know well. In particular, research by technological institutes such as the one in Alcoy, which, together with other institutes, were a pioneering initiative of socialist governments and which were forgotten by the People's Party, has played a fundamental role in their evolution. Research and innovation are shown to be the future of the industry. The car sector is moving rapidly towards the self-contained car. It has already evolved by reducing CO2 emissions through legislation, but it still needs to evolve further towards cleaner models, and the Administration can have a major influence in this regard. The industrial fabric still has room for improvement in terms of efficiency, environmental sustainability and competitiveness, but there is no margin in wages to gain competitiveness. We must ensure that it does not compete in prices by reducing wages and at the expense of labour rights. We can and must gain competitiveness, and much, by betting on intangibles, on industrial and intellectual property, promoting innovation, improving the skills and capacities of human capital, taking advantage of the incorporation of new technological advances, reducing logistics costs, energy costs, being more efficient in the use of inputs and incorporating new techniques of waste management. In all these fields, the various ministries, the autonomous communities and the municipalities, in the field of their competences, must play an important role in influencing the development and transformation of the industrial and business fabric. His Government had, in recent years, directed public policies exclusively towards the ultimate goal of reducing the deficit through expenditure and not generating new opportunities that entailed new income. Indiscriminate and terminated austerity without prioritization has done much damage; we have lost leadership in industrial sectors such as the renewable energy sector and have not driven our country's progress in other sectors. They are not pushing the necessary energy transition towards a more environmentally friendly model, so necessary for the well-being of today's citizens and future generations; they are doing so other countries such as Germany or France, with a great industrial trajectory. They have not prioritized the execution of investment in infrastructure, so necessary to generate employment and also to reduce the logistical costs by ending the bottlenecks. They have created legal uncertainty for many industries with consecutive and contradictory changes in legislation, such as regulatory changes in the electricity sector, and this, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, weakens our industrial fabric. Minister, we are moving towards full connection. Today there are millions of citizens connected and things are already starting to connect, so it is not understood that ministries and the rest of the autonomous and municipal administrations function as watertight departments, without a shared global approach to achieve a more efficient productive model, generating stable and quality employment. Over the past decade, the European Union has insisted on the need for a more integrated industrial policy approach given its important impact on employment and economic growth. The former Socialist Government signed a framework for collaboration between the Ministry of Industry and the social partners to promote the development and modernization of the industrial sectors. This collaboration took place with the creation of ten industrial observatories. Let me make this point; as an example, we can cite and highlight the role of the Observatory of the automotive sector, which allowed the development of business plans and initiatives that involved not only the modernization of the sector and its momentum, but now place it as one of the most important engines of the Spanish economy. We can say that some industrial sectors such as this showed better resistance to the economic crisis. It's clear that when you sow, you pick it up. [[Applauds]] In December 2010, the Council of Ministers approved the Comprehensive Industrial Policy Plan 2020. It was a plan containing an integral vision of the industrial problem and intended to be consistent with the decentralized structure of the Government existing in Spain. It was intended to establish the investment to be made on a long-term horizon in order to give stability to an industrial activity that depends so much on investment. But both the observatories and this plan were despised and annulled with the change of government, with the arrival of his Government, until it was forgotten. And once we forgot what was planned, beyond the equator of the last legislature, they presented the agenda for the strengthening of the industry, a document without budgetary commitments and especially outside the social agreement. It is a document that was never part of the Government's reform plan and did not include quantitative objectives or evaluation and monitoring indicators; a way of proceeding that has led Spain to tow new technological advances and that has not been anticipated and prepared for the new challenges that have arisen. We're late for the technological revolution, I don't say, many say. Much of our talent has gone and we have also been left out of the Union for innovation, Minister, outside the unitary patent system, as you yourself recognized me at the last control session. This is impossible, it's incomprehensible, no one understands. For this reason, there are more and more voices calling for dialogue and agreement on industrial matters. In this sense, the documents generated by the Spanish Institute of Engineering or the declaration of the social partners are known. If I may, I would like to welcome some of the signatories of this statement from the social partners who are accompanying us today, such as the Deputy Secretary-General of CTA-UGT or some representatives of the business organizations integrated in the Alliance for the Competitiveness of Spanish Industry. Welcome. [[Applauds]] The study published by the Spanish Economic and Social Council, which calls for a new industrial policy for Spain, is also well known. I'm done, Madam President. That is why the Socialist Group has presented this question, because we believe that it is necessary and urgent to create a permanent framework of dialogue and concertation in order to take advantage of our strengths, to correct weaknesses by taking strategic measures and turning threats into new opportunities, offering answers to new challenges. It is time for the Government to agree and defend a comprehensive industrial strategy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u165	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u166	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Blanquer, the main objective of the government's economic policy agenda has been to reduce Spain's macroeconomic imbalances and, in particular, one, the lack of competitiveness, which has a particularly important and intense impact on the industrial sector. The recent development of the Spanish economy with growth above 3% could not be understood without the contribution of industry, and especially industry, because it is an open sector to international trade with the contribution of the external sector. I will then give you the data on exports of industrial goods, but at the moment, as you know, the industrial sector accounts for 16% of GDP and almost 14% of employment. This 3.2% growth, the growth even this first quarter of this year, I repeat, would not be understood without the contribution of exports of goods, which are mainly manufactured, are industrial products. In January we have hit the historical peak of manufacturing exports with almost EUR 21.5 billion, 17.4% more than we had in 2016 and, for example, last year's exports of goods, manufactures, exceeded EUR 255 billion, which means a growth rate of almost twice what is happening with the countries in our euro area environment. The crisis has undoubtedly had a differential impact on the industrial sector and has, as you know, caused a destruction of industrial employment of almost 6%. However, since 2014 it is beginning to see that, in line with the recovery of employment and the Spanish economy, industrial employment was also recovering. For example, industrial employment in the latter EPA is growing to 4.7%, which is 2.5 times the average of the economy as a whole. The industrial output index, for example, which was continuously falling throughout the crisis and at very high rates, however, has already fallen continuously over the last three years. And today we had another example, the index of purchasing managers, the famous PMI, in such a way that the PMI of manufactures has already taken almost forty months of recovery. This shows that the industrial sector is recovering with the whole of the Spanish economy and especially - it cannot be otherwise because it is a marketable sector - linked to the good development of exports of goods, also of services, but in this case of goods, mainly of manufactures. And I think that the incorporation of the General Undersecretariat of Industry into the industrial policy of the Ministry of Economy is a good idea and it is because, apart from having responsibility for general economic policy, we also have industrial policy, the policy of promoting foreign trade and the policy of R & D+i. R & D & i and the external sector are the two legs on which our industry must be supported, especially in a context such as the current one. The ultimate goal should be to promote a balanced sustainable growth strategy with two key components. Firstly, the reindustrialisation of the economy and, secondly, as you mentioned, the digitisation of our industrial fabric to adapt it to a new context marked by the rapid revolution of technologies and by growing international competition. That is why this government in 2014 launched the Agenda for the Strengthening of the Industrial Sector, which identified ten challenges that I will remind you very quickly. The first was to stimulate demand for industrial goods. There we had, for example, all the plans to stimulate the acquisition of vehicles and the renovation of the mobile park. The second was to make key productive sectors more competitive, all that had to do with the production costs of the industry. It is not only about labour reform, but also about minimizing logistics and transport costs, reducing port charges, and increasing the tara and maximum length of trucks allowed to travel on our roads. Thirdly, a stable and competitive energy supply had to be achieved and energy reform and the elimination of the tariff deficit played an important role. On the other hand, the stability and uniformity of the national regulatory framework had to be strengthened, and that is why we approved the Market Unity Guarantee Act. Also R & D+i, particularly relevant, as you said, for the industrial sector, especially in the field of private investment. You know that the CDTI has made a very important effort through the CIEN programme, which has dedicated itself to financing projects worth almost 400 million euros since 2014, and the Neotec programme, for the implementation of new initiatives that require technological developments, to which in two years 27 million euros have already been allocated. Moreover, our fiscal policy, our tax policy in the area of R & D & i, according to the OECD itself, is the third most advantageous in all developed countries, so that at present, even with losses, one can deduct the R & D check. In turn, we have increased social contributions for the recruitment of doctors by 40%. The sixth challenge has to do with SMEs, with removing the barriers to the growth of our SMEs. Here we have a major problem in the industrial sector in the Spanish economy as a whole. The Ministry is preparing a report on the obstacles, which I undertake to bring to this House or to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for a joint analysis. On the other hand, we have taken steps to promote non-conventional financing, i.e. non-banking - basically capital and own resources - through the participation of Enisa, ICO, CDTI and Ecofides. To date, only Enisa has provided more than 5,000 SME equity loans worth €800 million. Internationalization is another fundamental axis. Here I simply remind you of the necessary correlation between industrial policy and export promotion policy, because the industrial sector is only understood, and industrial policy consequently, if we have a presence in international markets. I remind you of all the internationalization efforts made by ICEX and the Entrepreneur Support Act. Finally, logically, there is human capital. The educational model and the needs of companies in the industrial sector are particularly important, as is the need for Spain's influence on industrial bodies in international forums. Perhaps the most important thing, as you pointed out, is not to miss the digitalization train. To this end, we have developed the Connected Industry 4.0 strategy, which has as its objectives: one, to increase industrial added value and skilled employment; two, to enhance sectors of the future, such as robotics, big data or the Internet of Things, and three, to ensure that the digitalisation of industry contributes substantially to improving competitiveness. To advance these goals we are promoting education and technological training programs, encouraging the creation of collaborative platforms and supporting industrial companies in the implementation of digital solutions. In this regard, we have launched three tools: one of advanced digital self-diagnosis, the Active Industry 4.0 programme, advice and specialization, which is primarily directed and designed so that SMEs can know what measures they need to take to digitise themselves, and the Financing for Connected Industry 4.0 programme, which supports R & D+i projects through preferential loans, which already last year had EUR 100 million in endowment, which has increased by 15% in the 2017 budgets. In any case - and this is something you have referred to - it is very important that we have a state pact for industry. The Ministry of Economy is leading the negotiation of this pact to satisfy both trade unions and business organisations and the different political actors in this House. The need for this pact has been reflected in two initiatives. On the one hand, the initiative promoted by the Alliance for the Competitiveness of Spanish Industry, and on the other, the initiative led by the Professional Union of Colleges of Engineers together with the Institute of Engineering of Spain. Both proposals agree on a basic point: the need for the industrial strategy we design to be designed in the long term and in such a way that we face the challenges of the sector to give safety to businesses and to attract new investments. For this it is essential to have the involvement not only of the State and the autonomous communities, but also of the different political forces interested in this field. For the time being, the lines of action that we are considering in the state pact and on which both initiatives coincide include most of the points that we have identified as challenges for industry. In parallel with this comprehensive vision and in order to implement and develop the state pact, the strategic framework of the Spanish industry is being developed, which already includes horizontal strategic lines, which are then reflected in a series of sectoral agendas specific to the main industrial sectors: manufacturing, automotive, naval, aerospace and chemical. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Blanquer, industrial policy has specific characteristics, but it must necessarily be part of national economic policy as a whole. An economy is competitive if its industrial sector is competitive. I repeat again that in 2016 there have been 255 billion exports of goods, mainly manufactures. Moreover, we must not only rely on export developments, but also take into account that the competitiveness of the industrial sector, the most open sector to international competition, is also seen by the penetration of imports of industrial goods manufactured outside Spain into national markets. That is where we have to act and I can tell you that the results are positive. We had never had such positive results in the balance of goods, the balance of non-energy manufactures, in our country. Again, I would point out that we have two fundamental levers: R & D & i and export promotion. I'm done. The industrial sector is making an important contribution to the recovery of the Spanish economy. Today, a significant index of purchasing managers has emerged in Spain and this index, which is very much in line with the evolution of the profile of the gross domestic product, indicates that in the first quarter of this year the Spanish economy may have grown between 0.8 % and 0.9 %, above the 0.7 % that we have grown in the last two quarters. There, exports and the external sector play a key role and the industrial sector is undoubtedly making an important contribution. Therefore, the whole of economic policy and specifically industrial policy are helping the intense recovery and growth - which we hope will easily exceed 2.5% this year - which are helping Spain to get out of the crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. I like that they are working on a global strategy because, as you have acknowledged in your intervention, they do not have it and the good results are thanks to the effort, work and performance of many industries in this country. If there are many collectives who are demanding a framework for dialogue and an action plan in the industry, it will be for something. Since you are ruling, in the industrial sector you have been left out of the social agreement. It was very significant that his Government had dismantled the Ministry of Industry. It might have been interesting to talk about the horizontal character, but the reality is that today the industrial sectors do not have a reference ministry as they did in previous times. They are proving to have specific actions, but, as I said, they do not have a global strategy. For now, with the new ministerial remodeling, we perceive ministries as chaos. By way of example, I would like to point out to you an issue that draws a great deal of attention to me and that I would like you to clarify. The Spanish Patent and Trademark Office appears in the organization chart of its ministry; however, in the budgets presented yesterday it depends on the Ministry of Energy. I just don't give credit. This is a symptom that something is not working well. It is unheard of, incomprehensible, intolerable that the telematic services on the website of this office have been paralysed for more than a week and that it has not been a scandal; I assure you that in any other advanced European country it would have been. It is symptomatic of the lack of interest in industrial property in this country. No one understands that we are not going to be part of the European Unitary Patent System, that we are going to be alone with Croatia. You always take heart as the greatest European player in the Member States of the Union, but when you have to commit to real projects for the future in common, to projects that help to improve the competitiveness of the European innovation system and whose benefits to our companies and researchers are very clear, they are planted and left out with incomprehensible idiomatic and nationalist excuses. We have seen the budgets above, but they continue to point out in the industrial memory that the programmes are in line with the current situation of budgetary austerity, something which is not understood. In addition, repeat many of the initiatives already envisaged in the 2016 budget, which it has highlighted today. I want to tell you that it has no meaning whatsoever to talk about the creation of a digital agenda that seems to include everything and that isolated actions are being taken. This has shown that the Government as a whole has little interest in digitization. At the moment the creation of this new ministry has not been effective and the call you made last year for Connected Industry 4.0 has only managed to reach 7.86 % of the total amount. In addition, this year continues to be part of the 2013-2016 Digital Agenda, which is already expired; it is not understood that with the new transformation that we are experiencing we are at these levels. Another issue that I would like to clarify is that last March 17th the Council of Ministers approved the call for financial support for industrial investment for 2017 with a cut of 20% when they already knew that budgets were being drawn up with different amounts, but the call is already approved. So, what does this mean, is it improv or what? Are they going to amend the agreement of the Council of Ministers? Are you going to modify the bases? Because in principle they have said no, but it has been shown that they are a failure. In fact, some matches last year were executed by 0%, i.e. they were not executed, as was the case with the Canary Islands, or 28% for the Bay of Cadiz. You are talking about 16% of GDP and we are really at 12.84 %, very far from 20%, which is the goal of the common European strategy 2020. You talk about industry, but the goal is manufacturing and, as you said, your policies have not helped. It is true that more and more authors are defending a much broader view, but from this point of view we are also below Europe. The greater weight on gross value added continues to correspond to a low average technological level, a feature that is a burden on competitiveness at both the business and the country level. It does not give me time to comment on everything, but there are many aspects that you have mentioned and that I would like to highlight. They are also a waste of energy costs. You mentioned it in your speech - and I am finishing - but you have not really managed to improve this situation. What strategy do they have? I don't think at the moment. Of course, what Spain needs is a comprehensive, comprehensive and coordinated strategy. We insist, seize - we take advantage of - the opportunity offered by the new economic prospects and present a comprehensive industrial strategy. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u169	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Blanquer, I am not going to say what a famous minister of a socialist government said that the best industrial policy is the one that does not exist at all. What I am going to say is that I believe that industrial policy and what is the approach of the industrial sector approach is much better represented at this time than it was in the past, and I will try to explain why. Firstly, because the Ministry of Economy is a horizontal ministry, it is a ministry that deals with the competitiveness of the Spanish economy as a whole and competitiveness is basic for the industrial sector. If there is a sector in which being competitive is vital, it is the industrial sector, it is an open sector to the world, open to competition from international markets in which goods produced outside Spain, manufactures produced outside Spain, compete immediately. That is why having the overall vision of the competitiveness of the Spanish economy, which is the fundamental objective of the Ministry of Economy, is particularly relevant in the case of industry. Because, if you add two additional levers, which are R & D+i, which, as you yourself have pointed out, is one of the factors that in some way determines the evolution of the industrial sector and where innovation is particularly important, and secondly, the promotion of external trade, there is obviously a much more appropriate vision and a much more integrated possibility of action from the point of view of the different instruments than what previously existed. Among other issues, I repeat again, it is because the Ministry of Economy is responsible for the relationship with the main Councils - Ecofin, competitiveness, industry, etc. - of the European Union and therefore allows for an integral vision. You commented on the situation of the Patent and Trademark Office, and what you will see in the Patent and Trademark Development Decree is that it stays in the Ministry of Energy primarily because of everything that the development of the digital agenda means. And the EOI comes to the Ministry of Economy and Industry, as it could not be otherwise. We have made the call for industrial contracts, which you mentioned earlier, because we needed to do so and logically we have an extended budget and we had to do so because of the limitation you said of 80%. If the budgets are approved, and we hope to have the support of the Socialist Party there, you have no doubt that we will have an additional complement there. Finally, let me say something from the point of view of the evolution of the industrial sector in Spain. Every time the line between the pure industry and the service sector, you know it perfectly, it is less clear. The digitalisation of industry ultimately involves combining traditional industrial sector with future services sector. Something like Buster's robotics. I therefore believe that industrial policy, ultimately - and this links with what I said at the beginning of my speech - must be a more integrated policy, more coherent with the approach of the whole of the competitiveness of the Spanish economy. There is one case that I think is particularly relevant, which is the car sector. When you see the automotive sector - which will agree with me that it is a very important sector from the traditional industrial point of view - what we see is that new evolution, that dynamic towards a different position. The car sector is a sector that in Spain, for example, has received investments of EUR 10 billion in recent years virtually worldwide. This is a sign of competitiveness and a sign of productivity of factories in Spain. It is a sector that this year is going to produce almost three million cars and also increasingly technologically advanced, and which exports 83 %. That happens to most industrial sectors. Because, I repeat again, they are perfectly incardinated sectors in what is international competition, in what is an increasingly globalised world. Therefore, this industrial policy makes no sense as an isolated part of economic policy, it is part of a whole, it is part of a continuous, a continuous that implies improvement and efficiency of the systems of the whole economy, but especially of the industrial sector, and ultimately of competitiveness. That is why I repeat to you again, although there will be a specific strategy of the global industrial sector to analyse it and after some disaggregated way, the important thing is that the whole Spanish economy remains competitive, that we continue to maintain an external sector with surplus, with a positive contribution to economic growth, because that is the best sign that industrial policy is working properly. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-05-CD170405.u171	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until tomorrow, Thursday, at 9 a.m. I would remind you that the vote, because there is only one item on the agenda, will be around 10 a.m. It was twelve and fifty-five minutes from noon.
