ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u1	The meeting was resumed. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet and take your seats, please. We begin with the appearance, at our own request, of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the House to report on the European Council of 9 and 10 March 2017. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear before the plenary of the House to report on the European Council held last 9th in Brussels. I say day 9 and no 9 and 10 because the meeting on day 10 was informal and twenty-seven, already with the absence of the United Kingdom. However, I must point out that the issues of greatest interest, i.e. those relating to the future of the European Union, were raised on the 10th. This was all about the forthcoming summit in Rome in ten days' time, in which we will seek to answer the great question that we have raised today: how we want the European Union of the future to be. Allow me to retrieve the chronological order of the presentation to inform you of the conclusions of the ordinary meeting of the Council. On Thursday 9th the first thing we agreed was the re-election of Donald Tusk as President of the European Council until 30 November 2019. At a time when it is necessary to devote all our energies and efforts to responding to the real challenges of the European Union, I believe that we must all congratulate ourselves on a decision that will bring stability to the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, economic issues are particularly important at the spring ordinary Council each year. This is because the priorities of the so-called European Semester, which sets the framework for economic policy coordination between the countries of the European Union, are discussed in this Council. In this area, the first thing we have seen is that the European Union has overcome the worst of the economic crisis and today, for the first time in almost a decade, all Member States have positive forecasts of growth and job creation for the coming years. That is why in this Council and in the framework of the European Semester we have agreed to maintain the priorities of recent years: to boost investment, to pursue structural reforms and to implement responsible fiscal policies. These are the same axes around which Spain has structured its own reform agenda. Thanks to this and to the efforts of Spanish society, our economy has undergone unprecedented transformation. Today the Spanish economy is an example of recovery, bringing stability to the euro, growing and creating jobs. Spain's GDP grew 3.2 in 2016 and is expected to grow 2.5 in 2017. This puts us at the head of the main economies of the euro, with a level of growth almost doubling the euro area average, which will be 1.7. Thanks to these good growth rates, Spanish GDP increased in the period 2014-2016 by 9% and in the first half of this year Spain will recover the level of wealth that we had before the beginning of the recession. Growth is being intensively translated into job creation and declining unemployment. Since 2014, more than 1.5 million net jobs have been created and the unemployment rate has fallen from 26.9 - to which we arrived in early 2013 - to 18.6, which is the last known data, four quarters of 2016. We hope to create more than 400,000 jobs in 2017 - this year - which will allow, if this trend continues, that the unemployment rate will be around 13% by the end of 2019. Spanish is also a balanced growth. Spain accumulates four years with a positive balance in the current account; 2% of GDP in 2016, which is a record in the historical series. We are growing without resorting to external indebtedness because the Spanish economy has gained competitiveness. Other data also reflect this change: confidence in the Spanish economy, the reduction of the risk premium, business start-up data and the end of the credit restriction. The European Commission, in its country-by-country report for the European Semester 2017, acknowledges the efforts made by our country and notes the solidity of the growth of the Spanish economy. In this report, the Commission highly appreciates the agenda of reforms carried out in recent years in areas as important as financial, labour, energy and market unity. But it should be remembered that there is still much work to be done. The crisis has done much damage, especially in Spain, but also in other countries. We must therefore continue to work on all fronts, both at national and European level, to consolidate growth and to ensure that its benefits reach all citizens and continue to reduce unemployment. Job creation is, as you know, my Government's top priority; our goal is to maintain the pace of employment growth in recent years so that 20 million people will be working by 2020. I think this can be achieved if things are done well, in a reasonable way, and we are working on it. That is why, in this Council, I have defended before my fellow Members the elements which I consider essential for the European Union and Spain to continue on the path of growth and employment. We must not reverse the reforms adopted but continue to make progress and, if possible, improve them. This will strengthen the competitiveness of our economies. I am not going to go into the details of all the reforms, but I would like to refer, at European level, to two matters which I think are important. Firstly, we need to continue to deepen the single market. For Spain, the areas of the Digital Agenda and Energy Union are particularly important, which are fundamental, as you know, to ensure the competitiveness of our economies. I would also like to highlight the Juncker Plan - which is going to increase - of strategic investments. This plan is working very well, especially in Spain. We are the second country by volume of investment mobilized, about 23 billion euros in the year and a half that the plan has been running. In particular, 30 infrastructure and innovation projects totalling EUR 3 billion have been approved, which are expected to mobilise investments of EUR 17 billion. In addition, 11 agreements have been approved with financial intermediaries to provide credit lines to SMEs amounting to EUR 352 million, which are expected to mobilise investments worth EUR 6 billion and benefit almost 36,000 companies. Secondly, we must persevere in responsible fiscal consolidation that is compatible with economic growth, as we have done over the years. Thirdly, we must continue to drive trade as a source of growth and employment. My Government has always advocated an open and rule-based trade policy on the basis that trade is an essential element for growth and employment. That is why I believe that Europe - which is the world's main trading power - must remain an economy open to the world, because it means growth, employment and prosperity for people. This has been the experience of Spain throughout its history. When it has opened up abroad, Spain has always grown and created employment. In recent years we have achieved something very positive; for the first time in its history Spain accumulates four years followed by external surplus. This means opportunities, growth and employment, and it has contributed, and much, to the recovery of our economy. That is why I am pleased that the Council has reiterated the European message of support for external openness and trade. Beyond the political message, the European Union is making progress in this area with the signing of new trade agreements. At this European Council we welcomed the European Parliament's ratification of the trade agreement with Canada. This agreement is a great opportunity for Spanish companies. Since the first day of its application, it represents the elimination of 98% of tariffs from our exports to Canada, which amounted to 2.3 billion in 2015. At the request of Spain and Portugal, the Council's conclusions express the will to make progress in negotiating the partnership agreement with Mercosur and in modernising the agreement with Mexico. This year 2017 opens a good opportunity as in Latin America it looks now more than ever to Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to immigration. I firmly believe that this is a challenge that will accompany us for quite a long time. We need to have strategic patience, intelligence and generosity. The principles to guide our efforts are dialogue and cooperation with countries of origin and transit. The Maltese Prime Minister, who now presides over the European Union, as you know, has presented a uniform follow-up to the conclusions of the December European Council. It contains the first actions that have been implemented following the Malta Summit last February. There we agreed on a set of concrete actions to manage migration flows more appropriately and to avoid the dramatic loss of life in the Central Mediterranean. The need to control this route has already been pointed out, as you are sure to recall, in the conclusions of the December 2016 European Council. It pointed out the relevance of strengthening the external dimension of migration in general and, in particular, the partnership frameworks that could affect that route. It also called for short-term measures such as strengthening support for Libyan coastguards or promoting the return of irregular immigrants to their countries of origin. At the moment, the central Mediterranean is the main focus of migration concern, so we support actions in Libya and its neighbouring countries; however, Spain believes that attention should also be paid to the situation in other areas such as the Western Mediterranean route. Ladies and gentlemen, in another matter, we have also taken stock of the new security and defence initiatives, without losing sight of what we have achieved together since the Common Security and Defence Policy of the Union was launched. Spain has been at the forefront of European defence construction since the beginning. I remind you that our country has participated in all the military missions launched by the European Union, including the current six. Furthermore, we believe that this is an area in which much more can and should be done because the international situation demands it. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of having in the conclusions of this Council the full commitment of the European Union to support the Member States in ensuring their internal security and the fight against terrorism. In this regard, let me recall that on 11 March we commemorated the European Day of Victims of Terrorism. Spain has placed this issue on the agenda of both the European Union and the United Nations, which is of vital importance to us. We must continue to make progress from the Union in our efforts to homogenise care for victims, to recognize the dignity they deserve and to highlight the importance of their narrative in the fight against terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, so far as the European Council of 9 March is concerned. I shall now explain the debate on the future of the European Union on 10th at an informal meeting, which, as I said at the beginning, was no longer attended by the United Kingdom. As you know, on 25 March we will commemorate in Rome the 60th anniversary of the signing of the European Economic Community and Euratom Treaties, which, together with the Treaty of the European Coal and Steel Community, signed in 1951, constitute the founding texts of European integration. The statement we agreed in Rome must be able to mark a turning point and launch a message of illusion, confidence and unity for the future. Spain has been working on this in recent months with the countries of southern Europe in Lisbon on 28 January; at 27 in Valletta on 3 February; finally with France, Germany and Italy in Versailles on 6 March and, as has already been said, on 10 of this month. On the other hand, we believe that the White Paper presented by the President of the European Commission on 1 March is a useful contribution to this debate. I believe that in Rome, primarily the Europeans, we should make three ideas clear; firstly, that the European Union is a success story; secondly, that the priority in the coming times must be to deal more intensively and more effectively with the problems of the citizens, and in this sense the Bratislava road map is certainly a good basis; and thirdly, we must talk about the future, which in my opinion goes through more and better integration between the different countries that we make up the European Union. I shall now go on to detail these three ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, in the view of many, the European Union is a success story, it is at all levels, even if there are some who want to blame the Union for all its evils. It should be remembered that Europe, since the Treaty of Rome, has experienced the greatest period of peace and prosperity in its history. In the 60 years preceding the Treaty of Rome, there were two world wars in Europe. The next sixty years have been the greatest stage of peace in the history of our continent. Nor should it be forgotten that the European Union is the region of the world with more democracy and with more respect for the individual rights of individuals, human rights and the rule of law. It is the region of the world with the highest level of well-being. It is, together with the United States, the world's first economy. It's the world's first commercial power. It is a cultural and touristic power of first order. It is the first region in the world to care for people, and there are our public pension, health and education systems to prove it. It has been able to build a single market of 500 million inhabitants with very high levels of legal certainty, consumer protection and promotion of workers' rights and social rights. The European Union, therefore, is a success story and that is why everyone wants to come to the European Union. Since it is a success story and there are some who are committed to saying it is not, we must repeat it to the full and we must do so in Rome as well. The fundamental objective of this initial statement is to preserve and increase all these achievements, which requires solving the challenges of our time. The unrest caused by the deepest economic and financial crisis in recent decades, the rise of populisms and nationalisms, the reappearance of protectionist temptation, the challenges of globalization, the demographic decline, as well as the digital technological revolution make it necessary, as an illustrious member of this House of another era said, to stop at the crossroads before continuing our route. Ladies and gentlemen, following this idea, I shall now explain the second of the statements I made at the beginning of this part of my speech. In addition to being aware of what the European Union is and has meant over the past 60 years, we must make an additional effort to be more effective and to resolve the problems that most concern our citizens in an agile manner. This is the second idea I have been defending throughout the meetings I have previously referred to, and that is what we discussed at the informal Bratislava Summit in September 2016 at twenty-seven. We are committed to achieving progress in three priority areas. Firstly, migration and external border control. I am not going to go into details now, at the moment I just want to point out that any immigration policy that pretends to be fair and also effective - because both things are necessary - must be carried out in the countries of origin and transit. Secondly, security, which is one of the major concerns of the citizens. We must improve cooperation in the fight against terrorism and strengthen the common security and defence policy. This is the second major objective after the first, migration and control of external borders. The third major objective is economic and social development. Our third major objective and that of all European countries must be and is economic growth, job creation and the maintenance and improvement of the pillars of the welfare state, i.e. pensions, health and education. In Bratislava we have identified a number of specific measures at this point. Firstly, to extend the European Strategic Investment Fund, the Juncker Plan, to stimulate investment and employment, which in Spain, as I have already told you, has worked very well. Secondly, strengthen the strategies under way to complete the single market, in particular in the energy, digital and service sectors, which are of greatest interest to Spain. As I have heard many times, I consider the strengthening of the European internal market a priority for Spain. An efficient internal market means strengthening the competitiveness of our economies and making them able to grow more, more solidly and create jobs; building a sound trade policy based on rules that reap the fruits of open markets while taking account of citizens' concerns; extending the European Union's support to Member States in the fight against youth unemployment and strengthening programmes for young people, such as the youth employment initiative, new Commission initiatives such as the European Solidarity Corps for volunteer programmes and the strengthening of Erasmus programmes, which could also include vocational training programmes. As I have already said, many of these issues have been dealt with specifically in this last Council and we must continue to work on them. Ladies and gentlemen, first statement for the future. Firstly, Europe is a success story; secondly, it is important to be effective in addressing Europe's main concerns; and finally, the European Union must look to the future and set a road map to where we are going. Looking to the future for me requires talking about more and better integration. I believe that at this moment Europe must look away, because when Europe has looked away it is when it has experienced the best moments of its history. Furthermore, I believe that Spain must go further in its integration with all those who want to do so. The areas in which we can work more in integration for the future are four: first, foreign and defence policy; second, immigration and border control policy; third, working together on internal security and the fight against terrorism; and fourth, deepening economic and monetary union. On this matter, I would like to make a few comments, although we are certainly in decisions that will still take some time to adopt. The euro is undoubtedly one of the main achievements of the European Union. It means for millions of Europeans the possibility of travelling, trading or investing in Europe without being affected by the barriers involved in the use of different currencies. We must make sure that monetary union works efficiently, so we must make progress in a number of areas. Firstly - this should be done soon - I think it is necessary to complete the banking union. The Council is working on the creation of a single deposit guarantee system. This system will mean greater protection of citizens' bank deposits throughout the European Union and greater strength and stability of our banking system. That is why my Government strongly supports this project and I trust that we will have progress soon. Secondly, it is essential to deepen the coordination of economic policies in order to make our economies more competitive and work better within the euro. This requires structural reforms in each of the Member States such as those which have been implemented in some countries, including ours, in recent years and also requires deepening the single market. All this will ultimately benefit citizens. Thirdly, when there is greater coordination of economic policies, we must move towards fiscal union. Ultimately, this implies a genuine European budget, with sufficient capacity to support countries that are at a certain point in time going through a complicated economic situation, and it also implies the possibility of issuing debt jointly, the Eurobonds, so that we can all benefit from the best financing conditions that would mean for our debt to be backed not by a national Treasury, but by a European Treasury. This is, I know, an ambitious vision, but I think we should be clear where we want to go in order to move forward, and of course Spain is ready to do it with those who want to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. The history of Europe is the history of civilization, the story of what on European soil, despite our historical discords, we have accumulated over the centuries because it seemed valuable to us, not so much to live better as to better understand the world, society and the men and women who make it up. Today the European Union embodies, more than any other part of the planet, the old dream of emancipating humanity from the servitudes of discord, abuse, ignorance and poverty. Being a member of the European Union is a privilege that many countries would like to share. It is not necessary for the Spaniards to convince us because Europe is not alien to us, we regard it as an extension of our own soil, as an extension of our homeland. We are not one more in the Union but one of the great for our territory, our population and our economic weight. To this we add the pride of being one of the countries that, through our culture, our tradition and our history, have contributed most and contribute to the shaping of the European spirit. In Spain we have had the fortune that the recovery of democracy will be associated with the accession of the European Union, which has allowed us to enjoy the simultaneous momentum of both. As you all recall, we called for entry in 1977, negotiations were opened in 1979 and signed the Treaty of Accession with the European Economic Community in 1985. The great leap forward that Spain has made in these thirty years is inseparable from our participation in the European Union. We were offered a great opportunity and the Spaniards were able to take advantage of it, not only in welfare, in economic development or in infrastructure, but also in the expansion of our mental borders, the enrichment of our exchanges and our experiences, in short, the extension of the horizon of all Spaniards and the multiplication of their opportunities. This is even more true for our young people. They know no other circumstance because they were born and grew up in a democratic and European Spain. We therefore care that the European Union should be strengthened, developed and bear all the fruits it can bear. This will be good for Spain, good for Europe and good for the help that Europe can provide to the rest of the world. Since we care, since it is crucial for our future, we have a duty to fulfil, which is to ensure the success of the Union. At no time has the role of Spaniards in Europe been passive, distant or uncompromising. From the first moment we became part of this joint venture until we became one of the main protagonists. On three occasions he has been the President of the European Parliament and on three other occasions there have been Spaniards presiding over the Council of the European Union. We want to ensure the success of a company in which we are jointly and severally responsible, because what happens to the whole or to each member affects us Spanish and vice versa. We therefore have a duty to contribute to the consolidation, strengthening and firm progress of the European project towards the future. That is why it is so important for the Spaniards to be united in this field. As we said before, we should stop looking at Europe as a chapter in our foreign policy. You have heard me say this here in this House. Europe must be more and more an internal issue, a task that concerns us all within the house, inseparable from the well-being of each and every Spaniard today and tomorrow; a house that becomes bigger, a project that will change all our domestic approaches, from education to the development of our businesses, from social security to the courts of justice. United to support the European Union, united also in the inescapable need to adapt as best as possible to a project of these dimensions and this transcendence. In short, ladies and gentlemen, since 1985 Europe has been a great source of opportunities for all Spaniards, it remains so, and we want it to be more and more so in the future, in that future to which we wish to arrive with a more advanced project, a more united, stronger Europe with a more competitive economy for the benefit of all Europeans and a model of society that can serve as an example for others. The Spaniards, for our part, are not going to waste time or waste the opportunities; we want to have Europe and we affirm it with determination, which is as much as to make it known that Europeans can have Spain. Because - I repeat what I said before - for all Spaniards, for all, and especially for those who are already walking the path of tomorrow, the ideas of Europe, Spain and democracy are inseparable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u3	The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. Firstly, Mr Hernando Vera has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, the problem is that the initial enthusiasm for your speech is not in line with your tone, with the OECD report, which yesterday said that there is a risk of poverty and that we need to change policies, and with the reality of things, that we are experiencing a political crisis in the European Union. So, I don't know what comes with so much enthusiasm and so much self-satisfaction, especially at the beginning of your speech. In the days leading up to this European Council, it was said that the Council could be merely a procedure but that it could also be a Council in some transcendental aspects, and I believe that both qualifications can be applied to it at the same time. It was said that it was going to be an important Council for what was going to be decided on in terms of employment, growth, competitiveness, security and defence, immigration - which you have greatly reduced - and foreign relations, and above all what it was going to mean for the preparation of the Rome declaration next day 25. But it is enough to read the President-in-Office's document of conclusions to give us a break. As far as the above-mentioned issues are concerned, it has not been an important Council but a Council of procedure, for if by way of procedure we understand what the dictionary says: 'from the steps and steps to be taken in a matter to its conclusion', what is said to be concluded nothing has been completed, and steps and steps have been taken a few, but nothing more. It seems that this was the purpose of what happened on Thursday - then we see Friday - because the conclusions are full of expressions such as - at the same time - 'we must continue', 'we must strengthen', 'the European Council reiterates the importance', 'it is necessary to implement effectively decisions already taken'. It would seem that it would have been inspired by someone we know well, someone who is here among us, Mr President, because there are also judgments that most of us have identified with their own person and that we have heard in their speech today. Look, I read: 'The reform programme deployed... after the 2008 crisis is bearing fruit'. Or this one - I read again and shatter -: 'Unemployment remains excessive, but it is at its lowest levels since 2009, the state of public finances is improving and investment, while still too weak, is growing'. That self-contained satisfaction or self-completion of the Council that has also been demonstrated in his speech. Tell the truth, Mr Rajoy, you have inspired some of these manifestations from the Presidency's conclusions, because it is the typical jargon that so far moves citizens away from politics in general and from the European institutions in particular. The problem is that the combination of this rhetoric with the lack of concreteness and proposal by the Council is all the answer that apply to transcendental issues such as employment, competitiveness and growth, but without anything concrete. The problem is also that the Council affirms - and I repeat it again - 'It is vitally important that the benefits of economic growth reach all citizens', because it is already assuming that they are not reaching all citizens, and you know that. But the whole recipe for that - see, Mr Rajoy - is that the European Council looks forward to the holding of the social summit in Gothenburg on 17 November 2017 in favour of fair employment and growth. In Spanish: nothing about fair employment and growth until eight months from now. Good. Mr President, after this, I do not have much more to say about this part, except to stress two points, on which you have passed very quickly. I shall begin by saying that it is good to acknowledge - and I do - that the economic prospects of the European Commission for Spain and the rest of the European Union remain positive, albeit more moderate than those of its own Government with regard to Spain. I'm telling you, I wish you guys could make it. But the Commission itself warns us once again of the increase in inequality in our country, the existence of an excessive number of workers moving from precarious jobs to periods of more or less long unemployment, the growing wage gap between temporary and permanent workers, the greater likelihood of risk of poverty among temporary workers compared to permanent workers, the unbearable wage inequality between men and women, and a level of unemployment which is among the highest in Europe. That is to say, it coincides with what the OECD and other international bodies are saying, at the head of which there are no dangerous socialists, much less, but they are seeing the reality of Spanish society and in which the citizens of this country live. In other words, Mr President, these data from the Commission do nothing but certify what we have been telling you for a long time, that the improvements in the macroeconomic and occupation data recorded by Spain in recent years have not translated into the improvement of the living conditions of the impoverished middle classes following the crisis, much less those that have gone through the worst, of the real victims of the crisis, who have been hit by it and by the policies of your Government. The exhaustion of the short-term factors, of that tail wind that we have been living on so far, means that growth in Spain is reduced. There has been a reduction in unemployment, of course, but we are not going to reverse the situation or go back to the pre-crisis situation if we persist in the same policies or, in other words, in the same mistakes, because they punish broad sections of society, whether the youngest or the most mature ones, and some continue to be plagued by precariousness, cuts in public services, low wages or, from now on, for example, by the loss of purchasing power in pensions, with an increase of 0.25 %. The truth is that the economic crisis and fiscal rigour put in place have left large pockets of poverty throughout the European Union, but especially in those countries that have been hit most by unemployment and indebtedness, which is the case in Spain. In view of this reality, it is not reasonable for you to follow your own course, as you began your intervention this morning. The second issue I wanted to mention is that of immigration policy in Europe. There is no need for hurtful qualifications because the situation itself is already quite so. The very definition of the Union's migration policy, and in particular the action of most Member States in the face of the migration crisis, is giving us an almost unrecognizable image of ourselves, of the shaping of our principles and values in the society that we are building in the European Union; those principles and values that gave the world what we know as the European social model, that European social model of which the speeches of the 25 in Rome are trumped up but which is not concrete in what we are doing in relation to migration. According to the Commission's own data, of the 160,000 applications that Member States committed to processing a year and a half ago, in September 2015, only 13,546 have been effectively relocated; and with regard to resettlement, only 14,422 of the 22,500 were committed in July 2015. I think all the speakers are carrying a letter from Intermón Oxfam to ask you why Spain has only fulfilled 10% of its commitments, Mr Rajoy. Several Member States set an example, even before 2015, by welcoming hundreds of thousands; other partners are also setting an example. This is not the case in Spain. He should follow his example and wonder why his Government's atoning in this regard. Thus, it is easy to understand that the Council's call - again to collide - 'to make renewed efforts to achieve results promptly in relation to all aspects of a global migration policy that is resilient to future crises, including with the aim of reaching consensus on the European Union's asylum policy during the current Presidency' raises serious credibility problems, very serious, especially because, again, it tells us that we are going to deal with this issue again in June 2017. Therefore, we tell the refugees to come back tomorrow or that we will see, that they may spend another winter waiting for us to welcome them. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, we, and I believe that all of us, would have waited much longer; we would have wanted an effective and controllable commitment on this subject; we would have wanted certain pressure on the countries, especially on some countries that are making absolutely unacceptable demonstrations in relation to refugees; we would have wanted a sharp rejection of the detention of unaccompanied minors; we would have wanted to have done much more in relation to people who are certainly now being the most vulnerable in the world. Because the moral height of the European project depends on this response from the Council and European societies and governments. Finally, we would have liked there to be a coincidence that Europe should more than ever be faithful to itself, because Europe, fundamentally, is values and no one in the world will take us seriously if we do not take ourselves seriously and are not faithful to our values. So far my references to what I have described as a European Council procedure, not without adding that something is wrong, because if the procedure affects what is closely related to the citizens, which affects the citizens, it is that things are not right. We would need, as has recently been published, tangible successes in what is above the formal, the politically correct, the heart and the life of citizens. This has to do with what has been kept quiet on this occasion, with the European social model I was talking about, which is languishing, with quality employment, with social protection, with decent wages, with equal treatment, with the fight against poverty, exclusion or marginalization. But not everything has been a process - I agree with you - at last week's meeting of Heads of State and Government, because important things have been dealt with for many generations of Spaniards, and there I agree with a reflection that you have done. Europe was a hope of freedom, democracy, economic and social progress, and once we joined the European Union we felt that the European project was a source and guarantee of stability, economic growth, progress and social justice. To a large extent it has been so and we can say that for more than thirty years we have shared not a dream, but the reality of being part of the area with the greatest combination of growth, progress, well-being and democracy. But this project is in crisis, Mr Rajoy, because European society has been hit by the crisis and many millions of people are still experiencing its effects. But it is also that Europe is not alien to a moment of international uncertainty in the face of the apparent rupture of the model of international relations that has prevailed for decades; a moment when the American President defends a profoundly populist, protectionist message of national withdrawal, including Islamophobic, and with strong connotations of discrimination against minorities, which are millions in his country; a moment when within the Union, and as a result of the economic crisis and policies implemented by the Union in response to it, extremist movements, Europhobic, xenophobic movements, which advocate the resurgence of exclusionary nationalisms, and a moment when the European Union, after attending with surprise what was unthinkable a few years ago, such as Brexit, have to face up to it by negotiating with the United Kingdom. By the way, Mr President, there appear to be reports, which we have known through the media, about the consequences of Brexit for a country like Spain, which seems to be particularly serious in relation to other countries. There is a presentation that has been unanimously adopted here and those reports would have to be brought to this presentation. Brexit has shown us that nothing has to be perpetual or permanent; that human institutions and constructions are contingents, and if they are not cared for and ensured that they respond to what is expected of them, they are born to disappear. It is therefore not only at stake what the European Union will be like in the future, but its very being. We therefore welcome the Council's decision to continue President Tusk - as you have said - until November 2019, despite the behaviour of the Polish Government, although with regard to the next institutional cycle it will be necessary to see how the different ideological representations in the various institutions are compensated. For the same reason - and as I have already warned - we regret the lack of a programme to ensure more employment, more growth, more competitiveness and more defence of free trade. A faint message is given, above all directed to the other side of the Atlantic - but very faint, it will not be that Mr Trump feels upset - and beyond the demand for new investments that stimulate the economy and employment, which is almost a ritual form but which does not reach anywhere. Socialists have long pointed out that the level of fiscal austerity applied in Greece, Italy, Portugal or Spain, what you call fiscal consolidation, has not only generated social injustice but was counterproductive for a spread of economic growth, for the reduction of inequalities, which is a key aspect for a harmonious growth of our societies. We are aware that many of the tensions in the euro area have been caused by the absence of greater economic and fiscal integration of the countries that share the currency, and here we also agree with you on the need for a banking union and a fiscal union, and we must do so with ambition but we must also demonstrate it with ambition. You were talking about ambition, but you have to demonstrate that ambition, and we better open the door as soon as possible to the call of that banking and fiscal union. The effective steps are positive in order to ensure that the European project also makes progress on external security and defence and, in this regard, what you will have to tell us is how to impact that on Spain and the defence budget or how there will be a restructuring of the deployment of our Armed Forces and the structure, the size and the preparation of them. He will be able to tell us today or at some point his Minister of Defense will tell us. But it must be recognized that the formal bet for more integration has generated some concern. In this respect, Mr Rajoy, let us strictly apply semantics. It is not the same reinforced cooperation as a two-speed Europe, because in no case is it a question of abandoning those who cannot follow the pace of commitment of the most advanced or who directly do not want to follow it at this time but want to join in the future. You don't have to put a barrier on those. This has, however, been the strongest idea of what has been discussed in the Council, a Council with a shared leadership position by the four largest countries of the Union from now on. We have decided to become an effective locomotive for the reinforced European Union and have been invited to join it. The truth is that it took Brexit for Spain, through you, Mr Rajoy, to sit again at the main table in Europe. You'll recognize me that that's a little strong. It is true that it highlights the shortcomings of its European policy - in our view - the previous four years, but it also recognises the weight of our country in numbers for the future of the European Union. At a time when, in addition to Brexit, new clouds are being announced in the face of possible growth of Europhobia, nationalism, xenophobia and the hand of forthcoming electoral processes in key countries for Europe, such as the one that is developing today in the Netherlands, we agree that Spain can be a central country to provide stability for the whole of Europe. But for that it is necessary to lead by example, and not just by word. We believe that the examples you can give in this regard are not many. You tell us that you want Spain not only to be on the locomotive but you want to be one of the drivers of that locomotive. It seems good to us, but to be a driver it is not enough for them to put on their hats, it is also necessary to put on sticks, not of coal but of solidarity, of policies of social cohesion, of policies that they divide, of redistribution in taxation, and that is what you have not done. I mean, you want to be a driver but because others name you and you've gotten into that machine and the locomotive that's already underway, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] And so things are not done because, in the end, one ends up being an undefeated driver, like the Keaton of The General. Therefore, you have to set an example, and you cannot give many examples. One concrete issue that cannot be addressed is asylum and shelter. Spain is precisely one of the countries to be suspended. Balance: 10 % by weight; 10,5 %. Nor can it set an example in other policies to facilitate a fair recovery, a recovery of all and not just of some that ensure the social cohesion that was mentioned yesterday in the OECD report, a cohesion that is being broken in Spain. In this respect, the question is simple and the answer I do not think it is so much, but how does the Council's statement on how to reform public finances and encourage investment affect you with the aim of making special efforts to combat unemployment in those Member States where unemployment has particularly high levels, namely Spain? What have you done with regard to public finances and investment promotion? Because it gives me the impression that some things are said there but here others are said, or at least they are not put into practice in the same way. That the picture is not good I think it is obvious, Mr Rajoy. A new crisis with Turkey, it is true that of some countries especially but that it will end up spreading to all because we certainly have not yet seen it all on this subject. New steps by the US President in the field of migration in relation to Latin America and the Middle East and protectionism. This is also the case with the strengthening of the British position vis-à-vis the Spanish and, in general, all Europeans residing there. You were reassured at first and your Government was reassured at first, but now we do not know what the consequences will be. It is also the case - the situation is not good - of the threats to the stability of the European map resulting from the irredentism of nationalist positions that seek to break the integrity of different countries. I'm done. As you entered the Council last Thursday, you spoke in favour of a Union with more economic integration and more integration in defence, and, as I said, the Socialists agree, but I ask you: where and when will there be in your project on that European Union that you want to lead, from which you want to be a driver, a place and an opportunity for more political integration, for more fiscal integration and for more social integration? Because of this, in his speech, it seems to me that we can paraphrase Hamlet in 'the rest is silence'. Well, I'm telling you, for that silence, you won't count on us. Because we believe in the values that gave life to Europe, because we believe that in times of difficulty such as the present the solution is more Europe, but indeed, and because this stronger and more integrated Europe is only possible if they are incorporated into its rules, its decisions, its policies and its aspirations for conditions that are acceptable to all its citizens in their rights, in their protection, in their tax treatment, in their social benefits and in their individual and collective role. For this you will have our cooperation; for more than that, do not count on us, Mr Rajoy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u5	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Iglesias Turrion has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, I am going to propose that we have a state debate, a passionate debate, because I believe that we are not talking about a minor issue, and although you should congratulate the editors of your speech, I believe that you have sinned frequently when we talk about the European Union, big words but that are ultimately empty words. [[Several Members: Oh!]] You said: the history of Europe is the history of civilization. Europe is the extension of our homeland. We're not one more, we're one of the big ones. And you have also said a phrase that I think Ortega would love: Spain's participation is crucial in the formation of the European spirit. Finally, I know that you are a pragmatic person and I think that at a time like the present we could talk about Europe with a little more seriousness. There has been a moment - and in this I have been concerned about the coincidence between you and the spokesman for the Socialist Group - in which you have said the important thing: we are with economic and monetary union and we are going to bet on the banking union. Ultimately, talking about what's important is talking about this. You have repeated up to six times - as I have been able to tell - that the European Union is a success story, something which, by repeating it many times, is no longer credible. We are talking about Europe when the United Kingdom leaves in the context of the Brexit and in which the key speeches that have come from this European Council speak of several speeds. European issues no longer have to do with the European social model. No one is talking about this anymore, Mr Rajoy, at European Council meetings; it is about defence and security and it is basically about migration. I don't know if reaching 2017 with this balance is the best success. I am going to ask you to recap and remember what Europe has historically meant. It is a lie that Europe was the dream of the great federalists, the dream of Jean Monnet, Spinelli or Schuman. Europe was basically the result of three blocks of interest. On the one hand, the United States, as is normal, had an interest in the existence of a political bloc of restraint vis-à-vis the Soviet Union; on the other hand, France somehow needed to dominate Germany politically and militarily and take advantage of its economic capacity, and, thirdly, the Federal Republic of Germany was interested in returning to the European club and somehow lay the foundations for its reunification. That is the origin of the European project; it does not have so much to do with the grandiose words that have been said here. There was something - and this is important - and it was a common interest, ladies and gentlemen, for prosperity. That common interest in prosperity had to do with a consensus that many defined as the consensus of anti-fascism, of the success of democracy in the face of anti-fascism after the Second World War that manifested itself in a new generation of constitutions that established social rights as the social basis for democracy to exist; even until recently his good friend - I know he admires very much - Mr Matteo Renzi wanted to destroy that Italian Constitution of 1948, which, in the words of a journalist whom I admire very much, Enric Juliana, was a Constitution that had allowed us to agree with the Pope's party and Stalin's party. That, ultimately, was the basis of the European Union's constitution: a sort of promise of prosperity that worked for many years. But it didn't always work out. With the incorporation of the United Kingdom into the European Union, Mr Rajoy, something which President De Gaulle would not have liked and which accepted Pompidou in that way, began what some called neo-liberal counter-revolution, which was finally constitutionalised in the Maastricht Treaty, which was basically the road to the single currency and turning the monetary power of the framework into European monetary power. This had a number of non-minor consequences. Our country, like the countries that joined the euro, could not issue currency or alter exchange rates. Today, perhaps we should be more self-critical about what that meant to define a word that is called sovereignty and has to do with democracy. There is also a striking contrast between what the European Central Bank meant - to a large extent as a bank lobby - and what the Federal Reserve meant in the United States, which compared to the European Central Bank, seems to be little less than a socialist institution. The Maastricht Treaty, Mr Rajoy, is what constitutionalizes the domination of Europe by Germany through the convergence criteria and through the Stability Pact. Since then I believe that we cannot talk about a chronicle of successes, Mr Rajoy, but about a history of failures. And here I ask you the first question: does the European Constitution seem to you to be a success, Mr Rajoy, that European Constitution which the European citizens voted against in France and also in the Netherlands and which they had to push through the back door through the Treaty of Lisbon? Is the Union's political project a success when every time they allow Europeans to vote, they say they don't like it? [[Applauds]] Before the crisis, Mr Rajoy, the growth of the Union... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u7	Mr. Churches, one second, please. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Go ahead, Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Before the crisis, Mr Rajoy, Europe grew less than the United States, grew less than China and curiously grew less than the United Kingdom, Sweden and Denmark, which were the countries that had remained outside the single currency. Do you know the examples of Europe's economic success? Two: Ireland and Spain, economic models based on the real estate bubble and brick, whose success we had to see after the crisis. Does it really seem to you, Mr Rajoy, that the European Union is a success story? The crisis - which you have not mentioned at all - involved a management contrast between the United States and Europe. It is not that the Americans were an example of a social model, but at least with the Federal Reserve they controlled the policies of contraction of demand, unlike the European Central Bank, which at the time was banned from buying sovereign debt. We had to undo what Maastricht had done by preventing the European Central Bank from buying debt in order to respond to an economic model, which is the key to building Europe, which failed. It was shown by the economic crisis, Mr Rajoy, that there was no transfer union, it was shown that there was no federalism, it was shown that in the European Union our country Spain has interests different from German interests; and that is proof of the failure of the European Union's political project. [[Applauds]] The solution to the crisis is well known to you. Adjustment plans sponsored by Germany, which in our country resulted in the crisis being paid by citizens on the basis of wage devaluation, labour reforms that made the market precarious, and the bailout with public money to the banks, while in this country we saw how these mafia financial institutions evicted families from their homes. And you say that the history of the European Union is a success story? And it is told by the representative of the only political formation that was in the UK campaigning for the remnant. [[Applauds]] We are not going to learn from Europeans, but do not say that the history of the European Union has been a success. I ask you one question: do you not think that today, in 2017, you should perhaps be a little less triumphalistic and make some self-criticism about what your position meant and that of the Socialist Party and that of the trade unions in this country with regard to the Maastricht agreements, that some things in Europe have gone wrong, that it is a lie that Europe is a federation of united sovereignty, that it is true that the interests of Germany are different from the interests of Spain? Do you not think that out of dignity towards the citizens you should be a bit self-critical and not use so many empty words to talk about a political project that is moving towards failure? Now, the United Kingdom is leaving, a success story of the European Union, Mr Rajoy, a success story. An internal report from your Government to the Commission on Brexit, chaired by the Vice-President, says that we are going to have to pay an extra 888 million and that Murcia and Melilla are going to lose European funds. I ask you specific questions to answer them: are these 888 million going to involve any more cuts in Spain in this European Union success story? What are you going to do to prevent Murcia and Melilla from losing these funds? The report also talks about a fall in exports. I ask you another question: what measures does your Government have in mind to prevent closures or redundancies within the framework of this successful project? Let us talk about migration and refugees, which are the few things that are already being discussed in the European Union. I ask you a very specific question: Spain pledged to have 18,000 refugees, we have 850. How are we going to fulfil our commitment to human rights, Mr Rajoy? As far as the President of the United States is concerned, I have not heard anything about the European defence system in his speech. The European defence system is based on NATO. It is basically based on an organization dominated by the United States, which is the first shareholder and first owner of NATO. Now, the President of the United States says that NATO comes out very expensive and is therefore rethinking its viability. We have been saying for a long time that Europe needs an integrated defence system that is not dependent on the United States, now it seems that Mr Trump says so. I would like to ask you: in this history of success of the European Union, what is your defence project in our country and in Europe, do you still think that NATO serves, even with Trump, to protect European citizens? [[Applauds]] Finally, Mr Rajoy, a reflection. The past never returns, but the past serves to reflect on the present and the future and I think we are at a time when it is worth remembering the 1930s, when European liberal systems went into crisis and when the threat of fascism was only overcome by a response that was called European anti-fascism, an alliance between the working-class organizations, liberal political organizations and also by patriotic political forces. The result of this was the post-war European constitutions, which were the basis for the sustainability of Europe's political project. It gives me the impression, Mr Rajoy, that democratic recovery comes from giving meaning to a word, the word sovereignty. And I want to ask you a question to finish my very simple speech: what does this word mean to you? What does the word sovereignty mean to you? Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u9	Also by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mr Rajoy, even if you do not recognise it, Europe is in crisis. There is a growing disaffection not so much to the idea of a united Europe as to the policies emanating from Brussels, Frankfurt, Berlin or Madrid. And why does that happen? Because in Brussels, in Frankfurt, in Berlin, in Madrid or in the Government of the Generalitat there are no policies that protect people from the power and greed of the markets. That's the problem. The problem is that the European social contract, based on more democracy and more prosperity, is broken. The present generations of young people - the present - are already living worse than their parents and mothers. The conclusions of the Presidency of the Council do not say a word about poverty, inequalities or exclusion, nor a word. Where is the social fabric of the European Union, Mr Rajoy? Where is the employment plan, measures against social dumping or actual measures to preserve social protection and the welfare state? When you speak - and I quote - of continuing the structural reforms aimed at modernising our economies, we must start to tremble, because the translation of those empty and rumbling words is: more labour reforms, more pension cuts, more doses of austerity. You intend to set up a framework: closed economies versus open economies, free trade or protectionism. The real dilemma is: cohesive societies or broken societies; a cohesive Europe or a Europe divided between creditor and debtor countries; societies where people can live worthy of their work or precarious societies. CETA and TTIP fracture society because they reduce labour rights and environmental protection and abduct popular sovereignty. [[Applauds]] Europe is also suffering a moral crisis because its policy in the face of the humanitarian crisis and the millions of refugees is shameful. They speak in the conclusions of the Council of Support to the Libyan authorities, of monitoring of migration routes, but none of the refugees, none of the 25,000 people killed in the Mediterranean, none of the immigrants and refugees who have suffered torture, forced labour, rape and executions in Libya. An example of shame is its Secretary of State for the European Union, who here in Congress repeatedly described refugees as 'those who throw themselves into the sea'. Just for the record, this gentleman would have to resign. But Spain's reference to refugees is fortunately not its Secretary of State, but the tens of thousands of people who have manifested themselves in the streets saying they want to welcome. And in the face of this crisis in the European Union, what is your response? More integration or Europe of both speeds with a hard core that intends to go further? What you talked about and what you decided at the Versailles Summit, Mr Rajoy, about which you have not said anything. Because further and further integration towards what Europe? Towards a Europe with greater budgetary discipline as Germany wants or towards a profound reform of the euro area and the social pillar of the European Union? What does Europe want to go to? Because I fear that you are going to Europe to sacrifice austerity policies. And in this context of crisis your Government and you - Spain is the fourth European power - what exactly do you lead in Brussels? Will they govern the reception of refugees, even because of the moral duty of a country where hundreds of thousands of people suffered from war, repression and exile? No, no, Will they lead energy transition policies to combat climate change? No, no, Minister Nadal is allied with the countries of the East against France and Germany that promote renewables and self-consumption. Will they lead the response to the rise of xenophobia and racism, the response to Trump? No, no, Will they lead the countries of the South to demand the end of austerity policies and to promote the social fabric of the European Union? Neither. They are obedient disciples of the German government. Mr. Rajoy, lead something, please, even if it's little. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u11	I give the floor to Mr Gómez-Kingdom Varela.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the use of this Parliament? What do we need from the institutions and especially from the European institutions we participate in? Although their absences and servility to the establishment and to certain European powers work otherwise, they should serve to improve the lives of our people. The Europe that we deserve is the Europe of rights, social rights, human rights and solidarity, a Europe that defends the majority against the privileged. In front of our Europe is the Europe for which the People's Party is working, which is, however, that of peoples without sovereignty, that of unemployment, poverty and widespread precariousness, the Europe that every day makes the Mediterranean a common pit. [[Applauds]] These are the two speeds that concern us, ladies and gentlemen, their speeds that generate borders, borders that divide those below, the majority, those above, borders that divide those who are outside and ask for refuge from those inside, borders that divide those who benefit from their policies from others, from others, from those who suffer from them. I'm going to ask you four questions, that's all. Let's talk about austerity, Mr. Rajoy. Does it seem normal for us in a country with more than 4 million unemployed to subordinate the payment of the debt without having asked our citizens in a referendum? Let us talk about convergence and European funding. Does it seem normal to have squandered millions of European funds on corruption and inefficient infrastructure? Let us talk about the CAP, the common agricultural policy. Does it seem normal that it is the House of Alba, the aristocrat House of Alba, which receives the most funds from the common agricultural policy and that it is not our farmers, the Galician farmers, the farmers throughout the country and the farmers you despise every day? [[Applauds]] Finally, let's talk about human rights. Today eight human beings are going to die drowned, as every day in the Mediterranean. Fortunately, she is neither my daughter nor her children, but there are eight human beings. No more words. We need facts, we need a government that defends human rights here and in Brussels. These are not times of passivity or prostration. A Europe kidnapped by the interests of a small minority will have to face the imminent and complex world we are dealing with and in this context, in this new world and in this new Europe, the People's Party government has little or nothing at all. It is time to rethink Europe as a project for the majority based on more democracy, more human rights and more social rights, our Europe, the Europe of genuine Europeanists, which is the Europe of dignity. I'm not going to tell you to leave, Mr. Rajoy. I won't tell you, President. I will tell you to live up to our commitments as a country, to show solidarity with those who ask for it, to be responsible to you and not to embarrass us any more with your corruption before our European partners. If you don't know or can't, then we will tell you that you don't represent us and leave, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u13	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u14	Thank you, President. Mr President of the Government, Members of Parliament, the European Union is surely the best political idea that mankind has had in seventy years of history in this country and in this continent. The European Union is the best invention against war, it is the best invention for freedom and it is the best invention for peace and prosperity, despite what we have heard in this rostrum. It is also true that the European Union, like the globalised world, which feeds on fear, has enemies, as we have heard in this rostrum. We need to reform our common project, which is Europe. Not recognizing the mistakes, Mr Rajoy, all we do is give wings to the populists we have heard in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] What we have to do - and here it has been seen - if we do not want to give wings to the populists, who are also at home, in Spain, in Germany, in France, in Greece... [[Rumors]] Don't worry, it's up to us now. We've already done La Tuerka on streaming and now it's not our turn. [[Laughter and applause]] As I said, Mr Rajoy, the crisis in the Western world, globalization, the fears of those who lose and are rightly angry with this globalization that has good things and also some that we are not so good, cannot be denied. We cannot continue to talk about the past and the successes of these seventy years. We need to talk about the future. I would like this Government, the Government of our country, to speak more about the future and not just about how well these seventy years have gone. If we see how well we have done in 70 years and do not lay the foundations for another 70 years of prosperity, the populisms, the Farage, the Le Pen, the Podemos and the Syriza will end up carrying the European Union. We need to rebuild this project among all of us and I call on this Government to lead in that. I ask you not to be immobile and I ask you to recognize the mistakes. Europe's greatest threat today is nationalism, populism and protectionism, which are the face of the same currency: fear, fear policy and threat policy. We have to win with hope. We must give Europeans hope that this project is worth it, because those of us who have been fortunate enough to be born as European citizens do not have to carry passports or change currency, nor do we have to worry if we want to live or work elsewhere in Europe. Some of these advances will no longer have to be told to our children; let us hope that we will not have to tell them and that they will be able to live in this same connected and globalized world. But in the globalised world also those who do not move lose and Europe can lose if it does not take advantage of the opportunity we have in the world. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, in the face of the risks of Brexit, there are also opportunities for Spain to become a place of welcome for workers, for talent, for companies; the back office of many European companies can come to Spain and we must open the door to talent. Yesterday we presented here a proposal, which was approved by the House, to welcome talent, because Spain cannot be afraid of talent. Trump is afraid of talent. Farage is afraid of talent. Citizens are not afraid of talent. We want to open Spain's doors to talent and, to do so, we need to amend laws and take into account which companies can come to Spain to generate wealth and employment, to pay taxes and social services. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, I propose that we take advantage of the crisis as an opportunity, that we take advantage of the fact that Europe has a great crisis - let us not deny it, because it has, and deny it is what some have done - and let us take advantage of it. Today we have a big challenge in the Dutch elections, let's see if the Liberals are lucky to win protectionists and populists. Let us see if we can maintain a government in the Netherlands that will bet on openness, coexistence, free trade and not protectionism. But we already had a defeat with that so painful Brexit for a percentage of 5248 %. The young British and most of the people living in the big cities wanted to remain European, but some bet on the way out. Also in Greece we have a challenge from a country that was ruled by corrupt people and is now ruled by those unable to manage the situation. [[Applauds]] Mr Rajoy, it is time to act, not only to boast about how well it has been in these 70 years because, as I say, those who do not move lapse and the European Union can also have an expiry date if we do not reform and rebuild the common project. A few months ago, before a European Council, I was at a meeting of the liberals in Europe, and the Lib Dems, our representative in Europe - precisely from the few parties that defended integration and, therefore, the remnant and not the Brexit - said: those who want Europe the most we need to be the most critical with Europe. If we leave the criticism to the Farage in turn, to the populists in turn, some citizens will buy the speech, because the easy solution when there is fear is usually more subtle than the complex solution. That is why we who want Europe most, who want Europe to be more united - we want to see the united states of Europe - are the ones who need to reform this project. The old European policy has achieved many things - socialism and the European conservatives, we are not going to deny it, have achieved many things from the Second World War to today in Europe - but today the socialists and the conservatives are not knowing how to give the intellectual and political battle to the protectionists and the populists, and the liberals we have to take the European flag to give them the intellectual and political battle, to tell them that it is better free trade than protectionism, to tell them that it is better to tear down walls than to lift them, to tell them that it is better to work anywhere in Europe than to autarchy or to gird themselves to close a country. That is why, Mr Rajoy, in the face of the failure of the old European policy which, I repeat, has achieved great success, the liberals have to take that flag and give the political and intellectual battle, as it is being given on the American continent Trudeau to Trump or as it is being seen with Le Pen and Macron in the heart of Europe, in France. That is the battle to be fought in Spain. I also ask the Conservatives and the Socialists to work together on what we have in common. There will be discrepancies, but in what socialists, conservatives and liberals we can defend in a common way. I ask that there be no conformity, no complacency, that we recognize mistakes, that we see what reforms need to be made in Europe; that is the solution. If we stand still, the populists win; if we get started, surely the Spaniards, the working middle class of this country will see that politics is useful and that Europe remains a great invention. I would also like to tell you, Mr Rajoy, that we have some challenges ahead that you did not mention in your speech. I agree with some of them - then I will quote it - but in addition to uniting the public debt - that I agree; in fact, our economist, Luis Garicano, is one of the drivers and advocates of this unification of the European public debt for years - we must unite fiscal policy - which we agree on - we must also make more democratic policies; we have not talked about that. There is a lack of legitimacy in choosing some bodies in Europe, and that breaks the chain of democratic legitimacy and gives wings to the populists, because the decisions made in Europe directly affect us. Mr Rajoy, one day I want to be able to vote in a ballot box for the President of the United States of Europe, I want the European Parliament to be respected by the European Council, which, by the way, do not respect it. The European Parliament said that 160,000 refugees had to be accommodated and the European Council did not respect it. [[Applauds]] Two years ago it was said that the unfair roaming rate had to disappear, which affects many citizens, and it was not and has not been done until very recently, that action has been taken on the matter, but the European Parliament has already marked that line. The first thing that the European Council, the European prime ministers, has to do is to respect the European Parliament, because if there is no European Parliament with powers, if there are no united states of Europe with a president chosen at the polls, Europe does not cease to be a Frankenstein, and we need Europe to be not a monster but a solution to our problems. Therefore, more democratic legitimacy and more unification, but not only fiscal and debt, which is economic, but there must also be unification in foreign policies. Europe is a political dwarf in the world, Europe is a dwarf in common defence in the world, Europe has no weight in foreign policy, because there is no way to coordinate, to be brave and to have a common foreign or defence policy. It is not enough to unify the debt, Mr Rajoy, we must also move forward and lead unification on our borders. Furthermore, Mr Rajoy, as I said, the decisions of the European institutions must be respected. Therefore, we do not settle for economic unification, it has to be a political, institutional and democratic unification so that one day our children will live and see the united states of Europe and not in a confederation of countries that are breaking down and giving way according to the interests of every moment. On the other hand, Mr Rajoy, we need a safer European Union. Terrorism is a challenge, no doubt, but also common defence. Right now we have a debate with the United States and NATO. NATO is an organization in which we are in favour of membership. But why don't we start working on the common defence of Europe as well? We are twenty-seven European nations that have shown that we have kept peace with each other for seventy years. Why do we not use common intelligence services, common foreign policy and common defence policy? We must also guarantee the values of a social Europe. The great feature of Europe, unlike other agreements or other international bodies, is that there are social policies here. That's the big difference. There's a middle class here. The great difference between Europe and other agreements of an international nature or international organizations is that here we have wanted to equip ourselves with a welfare state, here there are common policies on unemployment and pensions. I propose that we work for a common European unemployment fund. We're the big beneficiaries. Of Europe's latest youth unemployment policies, I will not say the luck, I do not know if honour or dishonor, of being the country that most helps youth unemployment needs. Of 8,400 million Europeans, 2,360 are for Spain. Do you know what that means, Mr. Rajoy? That this isn't going as well as you say, that's what it means. [[Applauds]] I propose that we move forward and lead, that we not go to the European Council to accept and say yes to everything, that we go to propose and lead, because when Spain has led European policies we have done better. When we have gone to the assent of twenty-seven countries or simply to follow the indications of others, it has been worse for us. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, a common unemployment fund would be a step in the right direction not to throw any of these common policies away. I am convinced that many young Europeans would appreciate it if Europe, instead of being the evil one who makes economic decisions, would help them find employment with active policies, with wage supplements, with unemployment and funds for it. On the other hand, Mr. Rajoy, it's not enough to go to Versailles to take the picture and say we're in the Champions. It's great to work on the head team, but do you know what's going on? That we're also in the unemployment champions. In fact, we are not in the Champions, we have won it, together with Greece we are champions of unemployment, champions of precariousness. We cannot get away with it when the OECD has just told us that we are the most precarious country in Europe, that nine out of ten contracts are temporary, that our young people are the most unemployed in Europe. You can't take breasts out of misfortune, you can't take breasts out of mismanagement. That is also what I say to the Socialists. Let us not get rid of labour policies because they have been just as disastrous with the Socialist Party as with the People's Party, because Spain has always been at the head of unemployment in Europe. [[Applauds]] Also in education, Mr Rajoy, we are the European champions of school failure. You can't go to Versailles to say we're the Champions and then have the worst data on education and unemployment. You know why? Because in the end one plays in the Champions when he is strong, not simply because he points to the photo or because he increases the GDP. GDP is a fundamental growth factor, I will not deny it, as is the external trade balance, but the main indexes of the middle class are quality of employment, well-being and purchasing power, and in Spain in that we suspend because the middle class has lost purchasing power, because employment is not of quality, seven million Spaniards rise every day, go to work and do not reach the end of the month. That's a real fact, it's not an invention. We cannot say that everything goes well and throw all those Spaniards who get up every day, who work or look for work and do not arrive at the end of the month. That is not playing in the Champions, Mr Rajoy, that is being in the queue of European social data. So I ask you to make reforms, not patches, a new work model with a stable contract from the first day so that no one has to worry if they kick you out tomorrow or the day before tomorrow even if you are working well in your company; a plan against serious school failure in Spain to fight against policies that promote school failure; serious active policies, not subsidy policies, but real and coordinated policies throughout Spain. On the other hand, Mr Rajoy, I think we have an opportunity to modernise Spain and Europe, modernise our labour market, modernise our education. In the 21st century, for those of us who do not have oil our oil is human capital, and human capital is education and it is employment, and we are committed to a modernization of Spain with more employment and better employment and better education. Being leaders of unemployment and school failure, Mr. Rajoy, is disastrous and is ruining the future of our nation. That is why I ask you not to be conformists, not to drag your feet, to carry out those reforms, some of which we have agreed on in the investiture agreement. Finally, Mr Rajoy, I would also ask you for leadership, what we have had in Spain for many years in Europe. Spain is responsible for the European Union, Spain is responsible for the idea of European citizenship, Spain is responsible for the European cohesion funds, Spain was responsible and has always been a leader in European policies. I therefore ask you to lead this unemployment fund; to lead the democratic progress of Europe; to lead the unification of our borders, of our foreign policy. It is not only possible to go to Europe to say yes or to join the majority; it is also necessary to know how to go to Europe to propose solutions and not just to join the car of obedience. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, in what we agree - which is in the defence of the European Union - let us work together, but let us be more ambitious. I think it lacks ambition in reconstruction. And I say reconstruction because that is what it is: the reconstruction of the common European project. We have seen that the threat is at home, in the different parliaments. In the face of the one who uses this to bring down Europe, I tell him that we must strengthen Europe. Here are some gentlemen who vote with Le Pen when we have to vote on CETA, the treaty with Canada. I also ask you, Mr Rajoy - I am glad that you have said this - to strengthen and move forward quickly in the free trade agreements that some people are voting against, such as Podemos or Le Pen in Europe. We want to speed up free trade because trade is freedom, trade is cooperation, trade is wealth and trade, in short, is the world in which we find ourselves, a world without borders, connected, without autarchy, without walls. So, Mr Rajoy, as far as we can agree, we will be with the government and we will be talking about European affairs, but I am asking for more ambition. We also honour our commitments to the refugees. Europe is also solidarity, Europe is also not only giving you funds to rescue savings banks, not only that you are paid for infrastructure without passengers or airports without planes; Europe is also solidarity with human rights. So we ask you to fulfil those commitments that our nation has made within the European Union. Finally, the liberals want to give the political and intellectual battle to nationalisms and populisms, which are the real threat today. Europe has a remedy, but we must get to work. Self-congratulation is not enough; another seventy years of peace, freedom and prosperity must be led. And in that we will reach out to those parties with which, although we disagree on other issues, we can build this European Union together. I would like Spain to be in the Champions, but not just for a photo, Mr Rajoy, but because we have the best education in Europe, because we have a quality job, because we have clean institutions of corruption or because we innovate and bet on a knowledge economy. That is why we would like to be at the head of Europe. Today, unfortunately, the data doesn't say that. I hope, Mr Rajoy, that Spain will lead in the future, with real data, with social data, with economic data, with leadership in Europe. In any case, in the face of fear, hope; in the face of populism, reason, coexistence in Europe and progress; in the face of those who want to divide us, the European Union. But not just the European Union but a better European Union. Mr. Rajoy, we have nothing but renewal or death. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u16	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, the conquest of Europe is the conquest of rights and freedoms and while you were in Europe, at the meeting of the Council of Europe whose conclusions we are debating today, the Spanish judges carried out an attack on the rights of Catalan citizens in the form of a political sentence condemning President Mas and Councillors Rigau and Ortega for putting the ballots and enabling 2,300,000 Catalans to participate in a process of participation without legal effects. In fact, it has not been President Mas the first president of the Generalitat of Catalonia judged by the Spanish judges and if you get away with it, if the Minister of Justice Catalá gets away with it, perhaps it will not be the last. But I must also tell you that we are progressing, you are improving, because the last president who was tried ended much worse. Much worse. One has to believe in progress. Even so, it is clear that while you were in Europe talking, I suppose, about freedoms and rights, there was a political sentence being handed down by some judges to the mandate of the political power. Certainly Europe is still a paradise of freedoms, we could put some quotes but it is still so, although it is also true that it is at a crossroads in the face of a very complex international scenario, especially with Trump's victory in the United States and also in the face of major European challenges: brexit - for once some Europeans decide to leave the European Union - a crisis of refugees - which has exposed the shames of the European Union - and the rise of xenophobic and Europhobic populisms that bring us up to date some ghosts that we thought were buried in Nuremberg. So these challenges have forced the European Union itself - at least it should - to discuss its future. We are not fooled, we are now paying for the consequences of conservative hegemony in the piloting of the European Union, promoting economic globalization without protecting the social model of the welfare state, not resolving the differences in the productive reality between States, not promoting the harmonization of social and fiscal policies and not recognizing that the real estate crisis in the Spanish state, the financial crisis in Ireland or the total crisis of the public sector in Greece were caused by the imposition of surpluses from rich Europe to the south in the form of credits. Then you will understand that we are somewhat sceptical about what manifestations of some political leaders, like yourself, in relation to growth and economic recovery. You still do not quantify the suffering of millions of people as a product of the neoliberal policies of the European welfare state. This leads us to agree with you on a concept, uncertainty. Right, we're living in moments of uncertainty. In fact, the President of the European Commission himself, Mr Juncker, puts forward five possible scenarios for the future of Europe, from maintaining the status quo to over-federalisation, passing through Europe at different speeds, to making progress only in areas where it is possible to move forward or even reduce the European Union to a single market. I must tell you to make it clear that the Catalan republicans and the vast majority of Catalans have already opted for ultra-federalisation for many years, because we are independent of you, of the Kingdom of Spain, but we are radical federalists of Europe. That is, transferring more sovereignty from States to supra-State institutions to improve the economic and social model or to act more unanimously on the international stage. What I don't know is why you're on the path, if you're on the path of the Catalans of an ultra-federalism. You are not an example of excellence in your relationship with Europe, I remind you that you transpose the directives when you want and as you want, you just need to see what directives have been transposed after twenty years or the pitiful spectacle that you are now giving as a result of the conflict with the stoves. You are no example of Europeanism, in fact more than builders of Europe you are parasites of Europe. It comes up to call them parasites of Europe and not builders of Europe if we remember that for many years many economic resources came from Europe to the Spanish State and, in the meantime, what you were doing was that a new oligarchy should be born through the privatization of monopolies - Tabacalera, Telefónica, Endesa, Iberia, Repsol -, developing a financial economy without a productive basis; in other words, they implemented European consumption ideals while the industry was being relocated. Not only were you complicit but you were catalysts in this process, which ended up turning the Spanish state not into a builder but into a pacifier of this European Union marked by neoliberalism. The Catalans aspire to help this uncertainty turn into an opportunity, to be part of the solution, that is, more Europe. Europe must become an area where human rights and freedoms are protected, where inclusive and sustainable growth is developed, where the welfare state is better strengthened, where real social justice is better developed and where cooperation with the impoverished world is irradiated. Then, on behalf of that European Union to which the Catalans aspire, we must denounce the alleged kindnesses of the CETA trade treaty, which you mentioned and praised at the Council of Europe meeting. This treaty threatens European sovereignty, challenges Europe's democratic quality and puts the social model at risk. Why do you continue to see the old way that social and environmental regulations are an obstacle to trade? This thought is frankly very old, very little modern and very little transformative. We have therefore chosen to ask you to ratify this trade treaty in a referendum for the citizenship of the Spanish State. You have not yet spoken and we understand that not speaking means that you still have that pathological fear of all referendums. Mr Rajoy, how afraid you are of the referendums. This will not go too far with regard to the construction of Europe, because is there something more modern now in Europe than calling for the empowerment of citizens? I don't think so. In addition, you talk very frivolously about migrations. Why didn't you tell us today that Brussels presented just a few days ago a plan to expel more than a million immigrants who are not entitled to asylum? Doesn't that seem too important to you to be obviating it? All this comes from the meeting they had in Malta. Why did you not say that EUR 130 million has been earmarked to make Libya a new anti-immigration wall? How does this fit with those statements you made denouncing the shame - I don't know if you used the term shame, but you criticized it - of the will of the President of the United States to build a wall between the United States border and Mexico? Don't marry one thing with the other. I could now tell you about other walls that the European Union has already built. I remind you of the 30 kilometers close in Calais; the wire built in Hungary in 2015, 4 meters high by 175 kilometers long; the 175 kilometers of wire from Bulgaria opposite the Turkish border; and the 11 kilometers close in Greece, not to mention their Ceuta and Melilla, so Spanish that they want them. How do you marry this with your messages of modernity and social justice? Then it is not true that Europe is doing everything it can; you are washing your hands. In fact, they are taking steps to remove the problem from the ground and to make clear, in a physical way, what belongs to Europe and what does not belong to Europe. By the way, the colleagues who preceded me have repeated the numbers of refugees to which you committed yourselves. We speak of 17,337; you carry 1,034. In Catalonia we want to welcome 4,500! From the Generalitat de Catalunya, passing through the City Council of Barcelona and all the municipalities, they have made a program to host 4,500 refugees, many more than those that would affect us in proportion to the population and the gross domestic product, and we cannot do so because you have not been eager to get into the place where you should be; that is, to execute what you have committed to. Mr Rajoy, I told you in the investiture debate, you have chosen to respond to Catalonia through authoritarian actions. Well, they're very free to do it and they're doing it. You point to demophobic and even Europhobic, because there is nothing more anti-European than responding to the civic, peaceful and democratic demands of Catalonia with an authoritarian response. Europe is democracy and Europe is a democratic resolution of national conflicts. And I remind you that seven of the twenty-eight States of the European Union, one quarter, have achieved their independence in the past twenty-five years. [[Applauds]] Then Europe has that ability to metabolize into a democratic key all the problems that history is raising. And you, where is it installed now? You are installed in a scenario in which you are moving from a Spanish political problem - I recognize that still today internal, less and less internal - to a civil rights conflict. And, attention, Mr Rajoy!, civil rights are neighbours of human rights. They are already installed in the judicial repression of the president of the Parliament of Catalonia, Carme Forcadell. There is nothing more anti-European than trying to force the Catalan society to decide its future. This is anti-European. And now they threaten us with article 116; that is, declaring the state of siege, the state of emergency, the state of siege. But do you think it's a good business for democracy? Do you think Europe is going to allow it? Don't you know that to greater repression less democracy? Don't you know that at greater repression less Europe? Mr. Rajoy, there are no threats. We are not in the times of his grandparents; we are not in those times. Let's see if they find out once and for all: we are in Europe and the Catalans are European citizens. That is why there is one before and one after the declaration of the Venice Commission, which has warned you that the Constitutional Court cannot be manipulated to act against Catalonia. I understand you don't like it because it certainly indicates a before and a after. It is particularly unique for the Constitutional Court to enforce its own judgements, which is unacceptable to Europe. By the way, I remind you that there's something that's embarrassing. Do you know that there are four judges of the current Constitutional Court who swore the Fundamental Principles of the Movement? Let's see if they find in Germany, Italy or France any magistrate of the corresponding Constitutional Court who would have sworn the Nazi, Fascist or Petenist principles. Look, let's see if they find him, 'cause I swear they won't find him. For here there are four judges of the Constitutional Court, surely very Christian, who swore Christianly the Fundamental Principles of the Movement. I don't know if a Christian can swear twice the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u17	One second, Mr. Tardà. The Presidency is very flexible over time, but the speech has been out of the way for a long time in the debate in which we are, I say it with all due respect, Your Honor, but I think we have to go to the issue, within the freedom that is in the rostrum. [[Laughter]] Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u18	It was for Europe and, well... [[Laughter]] Madam President, when we were in Europe, we were fine, settled in democracy; when we talk about the Spanish state we inevitably have to refer to irregularities, anomalies. In any case, I accept your observation and will end up adjusting to what you think you're playing. I'm done, Madam President. In short, you have chosen to politicize justice, you have chosen to judicialize politics, you have chosen to burden yourself with the separation of powers. I don't think this is happening in Europe, so I'm comparing it. Be careful, Mr. Rajoy! In Catalan there is a popular phrase that says: Anar a cobrar i eser agafat per deutes, that is, go to collect and get out even more indebted; in Spanish it must be said in a more or less similar way. Beware, Mr Rajoy!, it will not be that you are going to collect and transfer from Europe. Let us see whether Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union will apply to you, because if you have proposed to violate the democratic rights of citizens - Catalans and Catalans - that we have European nationality, careful!, you will not go wrong, because Europe will not allow democratic rights, the civil rights of European citizens such as we Catalans to be violated by Article 116 or Article 155. Remember that in the year 2000 in Austria there were leaders - Mr Haider - who won the elections and wanted to form a government with the presence of fascists and Europe told them no. Article 7 was applied to them, there were threats of sanctions and an ultra-rightist Government was not possible in Austria. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, fortunately we are Europeans and the Catalans have great hope in the European Union, the hope that our rights will be respected. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u20	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President of the Government, this meeting of the European Council has certainly not brought great news. I would almost say that the 9th was practically a kick to follow and reaffirm without much more specification, even recognizing that there were duties that had already been done and were not, but the most striking thing was the controversy with the Polish Government and the continuation of the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk. Having said that, I will focus on the themes of day 9: employment, growth, competitiveness. The truth is that the text, apart from being very generic, is certainly very optimistic. It is true that economic numbers have improved, but it is also true that the alarm, instability and consequences of movements that can occur in Europe, not only because of the announcement of the Brexit but also because of possible future elections within some Member States of the Union, cast some doubt. You mentioned that Spain is one of the great by population, by territory, by economic weight, and certainly by unemployment, Mr President. When talking about the levels that are already reasonable in the European Union, it is being pointed out that it is an average of 8.2, but that of Spain is at 18.6, as you have pointed out before. It is true that it has improved from the 26 in which it came to be, that I cannot deny it; but we have an 18.6 or 42.2 regarding youth unemployment and, therefore, we cannot speak on the same terms and take refuge in the European average or in what is happening in general in Europe. He also spoke in his speech that structural reforms must continue. Which ones? We must always be prepared to make structural reforms, but I hope that it does not mean that this means tightening the belt again, cutting down, etc., but rather going to improvements in certain mechanisms. I would understand that, but I would certainly marry quite badly with the boost of investment, although I still hope that next year - we are still in 2017-, 2018, has a slightly clearer picture. This boost of investment is certainly limited by the impositions that the European Union itself places on the State with regard to deficit reduction, etc. For the first time - see how much we have talked about this - I have to admit that it seems that the Juncker Plan exists - finally! - because less than a year ago they were still projects - just three or four - that you had presented. That was the news in June last year. I have to admit that this time it seems that they have started to take out those 2.7 billion this year, 720 last year. I would have liked the information to have been passed on to Parliament - I hope if it could not be later - on the projects that Spain has specifically put forward in the colloquially called Juncker Plan, and that it would have said what areas and what have been the bets that you have made. In any case, I insist: structural reforms, yes, but not of the kind we have witnessed in recent times, and, as far as investment is concerned, tell us how we married him to those limits that have been imposed. In the economic sphere, in the end, what is done in the document is that we remember what was adopted in June 2016, the joint declaration of December: do it. Many things could already have been done. I agree, for example, with the issue of the energy market, which is absolutely fundamental to the Spanish State's economy, but as far as the state is concerned, Spain has an important duty because we surely set the record of directives transferred to domestic legislation late, and I am not referring to legislation, an area or a sensitive issue; no, we find it absolutely in all areas, not only economics but also labour, culturals, sports, and the State also has to apply it. I have missed the fact that, with the whole issue of Brexit on the table, you have not given any explanation as to how the situation is going, especially since it seems that it has recently been leaked - it seems not to be, leaked - to a media outlet a supposed report, of which we Members do not have, on the effects that the Government believes can occur: 2 or 4 tenths of growth loss, 500 million less per year in exports, about 900 million more contribution, possible transitional agreements. I was surprised that this information has already come out, and especially because of the current situation you have at the moment, you have not commented on any of that. I also welcome the Canadian agreement. The world is changing and, of course, if you can't make a trade deal with Canada, you will already tell us which other country you can do it with Europe. But I would like to underline one thing that has not been said, although it has been mentioned in the Council, and that is that Europe must be equipped with tools to deal with unfair business practices. I am referring, for example, to an issue where action has already begun - but there will have to be more areas - as was the whole issue of steel. Europe has to be a single market but neither can Europe act as if nothing happened, it has to be an actor more than in the international world defends its economy and is not at the height of dumping that can be done from China or Korea, or the velocities at a certain point in the American economy. As far as security and defence are concerned, I have always argued that this was one of the issues on which progress had to be made. Defence is one of the issues that will surely make progress in Europe, but neither has there been any concrete progress. In addition, it urges co-legislators to reach agreement on the entry and exit system by June 2017. How is this matter - the European travel information system in relation to privacy rights, etc. -? And in migration - I am going faster -, I sincerely miss a part of the speech because the meeting talked - and you too did - about coastal control, border control, return of immigrants, that renewed EU action plan on return. I think facing the symptoms, seeing what can be done and ensuring that people do not drown in the Mediterranean at that crossing is fine, but the problem here is another one and we will have to go to the causes not to the symptoms. The causes are basically what is going to happen in the Middle East and what attitude we are going to take as Europe and in conjunction with the allies if we want to stop that bloodbath and migration but also what decision we are going to make about Africa. Are we going to make the decision to truly carry out economic development? Because we're talking about the younger continent. Obviously, it's about development in education and health, but not just about that. We need to start talking about an economic settlement, giving them a share in the world economy. Either we face it seriously or we will continue in Europe with that problem. Therefore, if we talk about migration, I would ask you, Mr President, to propose that we go to the causes. Of course, not even Spain can be proud of the failure to comply with the established quota of emigrants but also all the promises made for the control of migration in Greece and those filters have not been fulfilled, they have not been carried out enough, they have not been made and there is still a stagnation on the European border that will have to be left. With regard to the informal meeting - but I think it is very important - seeing what the meeting of the 25th of the Treaty of Rome can be, you know that our vision of Europe is positive about borders. The disappearance of borders is positive, even for the Basque people, a people who are in the Spanish State but also in the French State; we have had people of the same people turning their backs and in completely unknown realities and that disappearance of borders has made us recognize and normalize things; it is positive. It is also positive in economic terms because, as far as we say, in a world like the present everything has been cut, but not everything has been cut just because there are commercial, banking, etc. interests, no, it is that in the social sphere, in the cultural sphere everything has become smaller, and that has not turned back. But facing it from the state level would surely have been far more costly economically than doing so from the European level. A Europe that I believe also had its signs of identity in the social field and has not yet lost them, at least with regard to the United States and less with the United States that is coming. I think you still have to keep those signs of social identity. A Europe that has been referenced and above all that has maintained peace. I think that should be put into value. It is true that the Balkans, and so on, have happened, but in the outside world of the European Union, what the European Union had been has maintained an area of peace and that must be emphasized. But today there is a real risk that the European Union will go to the railway station and I have missed it in your speech, Mr President, an analysis of why we are where we are. Why did we get here? He didn't, and I think it would have been important. Why are we where we are? For the economic measures we have taken? Because this whole crisis may have accelerated everything? Because of the lack of unity when it comes to making decisions? For all these doubts, indecisions, for postponing everything until tomorrow, for the unilaterality of some countries, for not being more supportive? The truth is that citizenship today does feel inert but I would say that beyond the economic problem. Inert ideologically because it's a time of transition, it's a time of change, Mr. President, and people are afraid of change but those changes are going to come one way or the other. What surprises me is that the left at one end and the right at the other take refuge both in the search for the old scheme of the nation state, blaming Europe instead of finding a future in Europe. Of course, what we have to do is to clear up doubts, because, Mr President, whether or not you are and with half inks it will be very difficult to maintain this. I ask you not only that Spain bet on a Europe that goes beyond, but no longer because it has no other alternative - I believe that the Spanish State has no other alternative at the moment - but by European conviction. I think we need to go to a radial scheme, broader, more open, different from what we have known so far, and to a Europe different from what we have known so far. In that sense, I do believe that some should move further so that others, in the end, will also be forced to follow, because I am sure that that momentum that can be given, at least initially, by some will be very appealing to the rest in the future. Of the scenarios set out in the Juncker document - I am sincere - I think we should bet on the fifth, on the most ambitious. I tell you what I think you should do and then I see what has happened and what has been the Polish reaction, that of the East, and also the somewhat timid reaction on the part of some other States that had even met in Versailles. But it looks like they're going to bet on three, and slowly. I do not know if we are going to be wrong but of course the future is in making more Europe but a new Europe in another sense, a Europe that interests us. You have spoken a lot about the economic and market sphere. Good, but also a Europe that can and must guarantee respect, for example, for minorities. And many Eastern European countries should be told that getting into Europe is not just about getting the money. In that sense, although the forms are a little abrupt, I understand to some extent Mr. Hollande's reaction when he answers to the Polish Prime Minister: And we have the funds. Because, of course, what they cannot do is prevent more Europe. Firstly, because that is the ideal in the treaties of the European Union, but apart from that to Eastern Europe we must say that, apart from the whole economic sphere and receiving funds for infrastructure, they are also bound by European principles such as respect for minorities, respect for a government balance and that there are no authoritarian regimes. And we are seeing that in some countries that is happening. We want a model that is more like the European ideal and we must demand it now. I'm just finishing up, Madam President, because I see I'm running out of time. Mr President, I believe that Europe must be a reference in the world, a reference that leads a European state, and I don't care if it is even Germany, the most powerful of them: today it is a dwarf in the international arena, which has already come upon us to be a reference to nothing. There must be a Europe that leads, a Europe that bets on freedom, an area of freedom and security, an area that also bets on social rights, but a space, and I do say this to you, that it does not have to be uniform, but a space adapted to the social, political and cultural realities of each one. In that sense, I do agree that these are times - Mr Tardà has said - for people to express themselves and not for any kind of imposition. The European Union can look for formulas, it must look for them, so that these expressions can be given and that we can adapt them all to their differences. I'm going to end an article I read recently from Sergio Del Molino, which actually caught my attention. It makes a comparison with what the Austro-Hungarian empire had been, so denosed but so varied, and with respect for differences, minorities, languages and the movement of people there. He almost said: No one in the European Union wants it, but I'm afraid a lot of people will want it, and a Stefan Zweig of the future will dedicate a book as beautiful as yesterday's world. Today we are all Austro-Hungarians, but we are still in time not to be in the deepest sense of being Austro-Hungarian, that of absence. No one missed the emperor in 1919, and few now seem willing to yearn for the blue flag and the 10 euros bills, but if the EU wants to survive it needs more than the conservative fear that holds it now. No project is held by terror to the uncertainty of what will come without it. I subscribe to those words. No project is held by terror to the uncertainty of what will come without it. Make concrete bets, make concrete offers to Europeans about which movements to make and do not continue indecisive; make them now because the day after tomorrow may be too late. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u21	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which is now holding its turn, Mr Homs Molist has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I welcome the fact that you are here, Mr President of the Government, and with such a good look, I really tell you, because you already know that now for failing to comply with judgments they disenfranchise politicians and, as you are part of a government that has the record of failing to comply with judgments of the Constitutional Court, up to the sum of thirty-four, I am really glad that you are here as I am, at that time, because we all know that the law is the same for all and I am sure that this will continue in the coming times. [[Applauds]] I am referring to the two blocs, the meeting of 9 March and the meeting of 10 March. With regard to what you told us about the meeting on 9 March, I could highlight a lot of things, but I want to focus on two very specific things. He has spoken, and indeed defended, responsible fiscal consolidation, he has literally said so. Then apply it. Do not do what you have done in 2016, in which you have not complied with the Budget Stability Act that you approved with our support under conditions that you have not complied with. They should also take on board the correction imposed on them by the European Union and transfer to the productive economy the EUR 6 billion imposed on them last year. If it is a question of responsible fiscal consolidation, you do so, because that is what you will be able to defend within the European Union and the European Council. And the second consideration, also very brief, is with regard to the meeting on 9 March. I do not know whether it has been the subconscious or had it written, but when he was talking about immigration, which also incorporates a sensitive issue such as the situation of refugees, the despair of so many people, he has spoken of strategic patience. The truth is that this expression has blushed me, even more so when - as has been said in other interventions - there was an obligation to care for up to 18,000 refugees by the Spanish State and it has not even reached 6%. When this is so and things are desperate for so many people that you use the expression'strategic patience' seems to me - I say it from my heart - shameful; inappropriate and shameful. At the informal meeting on 10 March, which you also informed us about, the essential thing was touched, which is the debate on the future of Europe. You mentioned three ideas that we could share from the point of view of approaching this debate: the need to highlight the European project, which is useful and more integrated. As an approach to the debate, it seems right to me, but we do not share the outcome that you propose. We must value Europe, but with self-criticism. Other speakers have reproached him; for example, Mr. Iglesias. I can share part of Mr. Churches' reproach, because it is true. Europe was born against fascism, but, Mr. Iglesias, also against communism; that is, in favour of democracy and freedoms, because everything has to be said. That lacks self-criticism, because if they do not assume a certain self-criticism, the arguments of which we are pro-European are not going to be convincing, at least in my view. Usefulness and effectiveness. That's what I said. In relation to fiscal consolidation or refugees there are no such consolidations; apply them. I could add to that: listen to the European Parliament, listen to the Venice Commission. Two examples. First, the Mediterranean corridor. How can we talk about the usefulness of the European institutions and the idea of Europe and then the Mediterranean corridor being as it is? Everyone tells it, even entrepreneurs who have nothing to do with Catalonia. Secondly, the revulsion of the Venice Commission to its absolute majority in the previous legislature for the adoption of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court is evident. The heart of the matter is the future, because there is no future without real integration. You have made a defense that a priori you could share, but I will tell you how we see it, to complement or perhaps to amend, you will value it. I believe that there is no European integration or unity with all the consequences without more democracy and with fewer vetoes. To illustrate it. What are you going to do with Scotland? If after the Brexit Scotland decides to establish its independence, what will you do? What they have always done, which is to deny everything until the day it is accepted? How do you view the leaders of the countries that have joined the European Union that were not independent, that they were denied bread and salt in their aspiration to independence and are now normal countries, integrated into the European Union with all the naturalness and with Spanish embassies in their respective capitals? I mean, are you going to tell us until the last minute that Scotland will never be able to be part of the European Union, which has to be put in line? You, who are against Brexit, are you going to expel the Scots if you decide to join the European Union after Brexit? How are they going to manage these contradictions? Are you going to deny the democratic principle that people can decide on their future? Obviously with Catalonia we see it every day, over and over again, but can we really build a Europe like this? Are you in favour of Europe becoming a genuine United States of Europe where the President is directly elected, where there is a Parliament that really sends, has and can make real decisions with all its consequences, where you cannot establish vetoes or can't approve things behind the backs of citizens? When we talk about the best, the future and the most unitary integration of Europe, you contradict yourself by defending a state Spanishism and then talking about a European integration that I do not give any credibility to. Because what are you, European nationalists or patriots? You should really answer this, because I see a flagrant contradiction. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rajoy, a preview. You have spoken of responsible fiscal policies. He also likes to say that this is a serious country, but a serious country pays its bills. This invoice I showed you six years ago, it is an invoice that has not yet paid the People's Party that you preside; it is 568,000 euros from that congress in which you were appointed president of the People's Party in Fair Valencia, eight years without paying this invoice. [[Show an invoice]] Self-employed people, businesses, citizens pay their bills and the People's Party does not pay them. I don't know if this is going to be very serious about not paying bills. By the way, it would be curious to know how Mr. Correa, who organized the congress at which you were appointed president, charged. Secondly, you have spoken about the importance of trade, and I as a Valencian have several concerns. The first was quoted earlier by Mr Homs, and is the Mediterranean corridor. Where the Mediterranean Corridor actually occupies 51% of the exports of goods and 63% of the port traffic, and it is as it is. Yesterday he was reminded of 550 entrepreneurs from Murcia, Valencia, Andalusia and Catalonia. So, something will have to do with the runner. We are also concerned, in relation to the Treaty of Canada, about designations of origin; there are many Valencians who are concerned about designations of origin. And what will Brexit mean for Valencians? Then, in the conclusions, there is talk of unfair business practices. Valencian farmers, farmers throughout the Mediterranean basin are very concerned about these unfair trade practices that in many cases affect Mediterranean agriculture. However, today you spoke of a European Union that is a success story, a Union that solves problems and that needs more integration. But today we are all waiting for Holland, today all news will open with Holland. What happens in Holland, a country that was the founders of the European Union? What's going on in France? What happened in the UK with Brexit?What happened in Poland, Hungary? What is happening in Spain and why is more and more people questioning the idea of Europe, questioning Europe's membership, wanting to leave Europe? What has been done wrong in Europe? What is wrong in Europe, despite what you say or the conclusions that economic growth has already returned to the twenty-eight Member States and the prospects are encouraging? The answer is in the OECD report for Spain: there is growth, but inequality, it is not inclusive, it does not generate more well-being; low unemployment, but the long-term unemployment is so high that it generates disaffection and social alienation; lack of quality employment, more hours of work and adequate income, especially for young people; poverty levels are high, 23% in children, ten points higher than the average in advanced countries, and aid is low and low, and all this has not been used to lower public debt or to cover deficit targets. Something will have to change in this Europe, Mr Rajoy, because the feeling we have is that this Europe is a clumsy, fearful, selfish crab that is moving backwards at an ever faster pace. Something will have to change in this Europe, Mr Rajoy, when a year ago that infamous agreement with Turkey was signed which has meant that migrants are being outsourced. We're looking somewhere else. And in addition, your Government does not allow us the autonomous communities to comply with what you have undertaken to do. Remember, Spain pledged to house 17,000 refugees, but we have only welcomed 898. Do you really think this is humanitarian? Do you really think this is part of those Christian values that your party claims to defend? I'd like to see the second newly elected flamingo Mr. Cañizares defending these immigrants, not those crusades against people who have a different sexual choice. I'm done, Madam President. The Government of Botànic has made available 1,139 places to accommodate these refugees there, in Valencian territory. However, the Valencian People's Party has criticized them and you do not allow it. Something is failing in this Europe, this is not the Europe we dream of, Mr Rajoy. We don't dream of crabs. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u26	Egun where you're going. Today, Mr Rajoy, no one will be able to accuse you of sparing in words, perhaps in opposition to the press conference you gave last week, in which you were so quiet in words with the BBC journalist. As I said, he has not spared more than thirty minutes in words to sell us the goodies of the current European Union and its economic and social course. He has told us about NATO's survival and force, he has told us about the need to continue with the migration policy that makes Europe surrounded by concentration camps because we do not allow refugees to enter. After hearing you, it seems obvious that you have enough with this Europe, a Europe converted into a private club of bankers and magnates, where of course fewer people are allowed to let in refugees and refugees, you will think. We and we, on the contrary, want to free it from the control of these bankers and magnates and built as a space of solidarity between the peoples. It is time, if not before, to ask ourselves what benefits austerity and monetary policy have brought us, the euro itself, when anyone who knows how to count will have realized that our day to day is becoming more precarious, harder and more difficult. You say that the Spanish state is one of the main economies of the euro and yet yesterday the OECD told us that 23.4% of children in the Spanish state live in child poverty. Perhaps you think that the Basque independent sovereignists are insolidarians, autoarchics, who said someone out there, protectionists. Well, we'll short-circuit him a little, if possible. From this rostrum we propose an area of common action for the peoples of southern Europe, a joint work space for the peoples of southern Europe, because we, the Basques and the Basques, are also tired of being slaves to a rich north, because we do not want to pay the debts of a few and because for us sovereignty, which is very important - you know it - means returning to the people their full and total democratic capacity, and not relegating it to dark offices where people to whom no one has voted make decisions that no one shares. They said - and they keep saying - that the Spanish state was in the Champions League, which was one of the greats of the European economy. You have a problem, Mr Rajoy, if this is not the way to reverse the vision that at least many Basques and Basques have that you are Angela Merkel's buttons, you are the errand boy of the European Central Bank. You sell to the Spanish state as a portentous country and for us, in our eyes, it becomes a disastrous country. There are those who speak of a country of talent, and Mr. Rivera spoke of that they do not fear talent; they are likely not afraid of talent. In my country it is said that one cannot fear what is not known. Maybe that's why they're not afraid of talent. Against the course laid down by rulers who sell their sovereignty, we offer a hand to the sovereign peoples of the south, those who pay with austerity and cut the opulence of a few, of a Europe that is democratised at a fast pace to make itself more comfortable for transnationals; of a Europe that kidnaps sovereignty, where there are worthy peoples like the Scots who want to be free; of a Europe where economic globalization goes beyond the rights of people, where money flows with great ease, can go to Switzerland, Andorra to Luxembourg with calmness but people cannot move. Europe has an entity and meaning if it is of the peoples and for the peoples and for the people who call at their door. Honestly, for us and for us, for the people of Euskal Herria Bildu you have no more flag than a 500-euro ticket and that, whether you like it or not, is deeply anti-European.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u27	Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, let us recognise - indeed - that we are not experiencing one of the greatest European moments of effervescence; let us see what is happening today in the Netherlands. There are two main problems facing Europe at the moment: one, internal division, which is a novelty and a fact, and the other, the progress of nationalism; two phenomena which are manifested whenever things get difficult and are fed by the same: selfishness, fear and lack of confidence that we can better solve the problems of all together. However, Mr President, on that path of bringing Europeans together on a common project - which I believe is an experience, a success story - it would be even worse, as Sisyphus did, to fall into a dynamic, into a loop where all the work was always useless, that is, that we lost the illusion. A number of issues have been discussed and I will say something very briefly about all of them. In terms of employment, growth and competitiveness, it is true that we are no worse than we have been; not all policies have served to reverse this situation, that is, it would be irresponsible to apply the opposite policies that have helped us to get out of this crisis, and it is true that much remains to be done. In terms of security and defence, Mr President, I think we are going to assume that we will have to increase the defence budgets and that we will have to assume greater responsibilities, although it is true that the Brexit and the exit from the United Kingdom can make possible an impetus from the European army. As we checked last night in Pamplona, my city, we are not yet free from terrorism as long as there is gentucity that is created with the right to coerce the life and freedom of others. Therefore, we must not lower our guard. As far as immigration is concerned, I think it should be noted that as long as we live in a world where comfort zones coexist, such as Europe is, with other endemic areas of famine, poverty, wars and instability, the migratory drama will continue, even worsen. Indeed, it is generating perverse effects and very worrying internal political reactions of xenophobia, populism, insolidity and extremism. I am not going to demagogy on this subject, but I do want to convey to you the wish of my party that we all put the means to alleviate so much pain, seek urgent humanitarian solutions and think about how to end the conflicts that cause them. Someone has said that there is no favorable wind for those who do not know where it is going and I believe that we must recover a certain moral compass that we have lost, recover course, illusion and ambition. Our ambition, Mr President, is born in Navarre and from Navarre. Today it does not touch, it is true, but you know that for us to prepare Navarra for better integration with the rest of Spain and with Europe it goes by promoting two infrastructures, two investments absolutely priority for us, such as the high-speed connection and the Navarra channel. We will have a chance to talk about it; as I say, it does not touch today. I'm done with another idea. As things stand today, Mr President, political stability, which we defend and demand, must be enhanced more than ever. Today no one can take refuge in absolute majority in this Parliament, neither to deny the opposition or to despise it, nor to wash their hands waiting for the government in office to cling to everything. We are living in a new political time, but we must not be misled either. I say this, Mr President, because if a majority of minorities consider that the best thing for this political moment is to spend time as Sisifus, doing the work of everyone something useless, without objectives, without illusion, without ambition, taking the country to a waste time, perhaps it would be better - or not - for citizens to decide whether that is the best way to take advantage of or take advantage of our time. You understand me, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u29	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. President of the Government. Foro is a party that declares itself in its statutes as a Europeanist and that sees with concern the growth of those who try to destroy the European Union and, therefore, we share with you and your Government the objective of strengthening Spain as one of the great pillars of the great community of nations whose sixtieth birthday will be held next week in Rome. For Spain, the European Union is very important and vice versa. That is precisely why we call for Asturias to be included in the good project that you, Mr Rajoy, are trying to achieve for the future of Spain within Europe; that we do not discriminate against the Asturians, that we be treated as mandated by the Constitution when it promotes the balance between territories, when it speaks of a state that guarantees solidarity between our nationalities and regions. I'll talk to you with the official data in my hand. The European Commission published last week the regional competitiveness index, a three-year analysis that has determined that some autonomous communities are going backwards. This is the case with Asturias, which is about to enter the least competitive bloc in the whole of the European Union. These are up-to-date data from the Union itself. Let's go back, as I had occasion to highlight last week here, in Congress, before the Transport Commissioner. Infrastructures are assessed in the competitiveness index, among other relevant factors. Here Asturias no longer goes back, we are already back, placed 222 out of 263 European regions; I repeat, 222 out of 263. That is why we call for the urgent completion of the great public works, for them to be put into service and for them to serve to correct our growing decline. We warn that the Ministry of Development does not succumb to the political blockade of the variant of Pajares, several decades of socialist blockade here in the Courts; that the anachronistic theses of the Iberian width, the quaternary width of the Renfe, that public enterprise that has just been sanctioned by the National Commission of Markets and Competition with 65 million euros for anticompetitive practices, the biggest fine in the history of Spain. Mr Rajoy, the project you are trying to build to cement the future of Spain within Europe cannot be carried out by excluding Asturias, a victim of a taxed but covert process of Brexit. People's Party and Forum have a common program endorsed electorally by a majority of Asturians, assumed by you in your investiture and, above all, the most important, indispensable and indispensable for the future and present of the best Asturians in the best Europe. To carry out this common programme is equivalent to joining that Europe which, as you, Mr Rajoy, pointedly pointed out in your speech, wants and should look far away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u31	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, among the many issues that you have dealt with, I will focus, in the short time that I have, on one that touches the Canary Islands fully, on Brexit. As you know, the president of the Canary Islands, Fernando Clavijo, met on February 2nd with the chief negotiator of the Brexit, Guy Verhofstadt, who is president of ALDE, and at that meeting brought to him the logical concern of a community like ours, in which tourism accounts for 32% of GDP and in which 28,000 citizens of the United Kingdom live, for the consequences of the Brexit. Canary Islands received nearly 5 million British tourists, which accounts for 30% of total Canary Islands tourism, but in the case of the island of Tenerife it accounts for 40%. Furthermore, in the Canary Islands, as I have said, 28,000 citizens of the United Kingdom live and, therefore, apart from the impact on tourism, we also need to analyse what the consequences will be for the provision of health services to those 28,000 residents and 5 million tourists at the time. Moreover, as you know, 57 % of agricultural exports, mainly tomato, go to the United Kingdom. In addition, we are also concerned about compensation for the carriage of goods when the United Kingdom is out. We'll have to talk about this. We have already seen some negative consequences with regard to the issue of revaluing the pound in terms of consumption, not in terms of the number of British tourists, and that is why we were the first community to go to Brussels. In addition, at the meeting with the Government of Spain, our Economic Adviser raised the importance of a fluid dialogue on the specific position of the Canary Islands. There is a good thing, and it seems that the negotiator is going to be Mr Barnier, who was responsible for the European Commission's regional policy, who is perfectly familiar with the issue of the outermost regions and who will have to have a separate negotiating card. In this regard, the Government of the Canary Islands has set up a follow-up committee with all the political forces in the Canary Islands, trade unions and employers. It met forty-eight hours ago, and it already has the report, which will be sent to Brussels and to the Government of Spain. We ask you to work together, because it is necessary. In short, Mr Rajoy, 5 million British tourists in the Canary Islands, 28,000 residents, 30% of tourism, 50% of our agricultural exports and 13% of the GDP of the Canary Islands dependent on Britain. We have that work together, separated and differentiated from the rest of the state. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, we have caught a dissociation in your speech - I know you are capable of being more efusive than you have been today - between the optimism that you intend to bring about about the reality of the European Union and the reality and concerns of citizens. This is a Council that has no content because you have not talked to us here about what people are most concerned about today, and I understand it, because it is complicated and we are not going to be depressed either, but it is clear that what people are worried about is Brexit. I am a canary and imagine the concern on this subject. Isn't Brexit a challenge we should talk about? And is it not a concern that the appointment of President Tusk, who has indeed been a very majority appointment, has re-emphasized that members of the European Union, such as the Polish case, speak little about integration and that others, in matters such as migration or rights policies, also have unique policies and nothing close to what we could call the European spirit? We're worried about this. We are concerned that, probably, the greatest financial tension that the European Union is going to have in the future is that coming from the other side of the Atlantic, with Mr Trump committed to the fact that the European Union does not have to make a powerful defence policy, with what we agree with, but to develop a very powerful military spending policy, which is what they want to develop in the United States, which means that resources of that nature, if we spend it on this, cannot be spent on anything else; and, moreover, electoral processes in Europe that speak of going in the opposite direction of optimism. I understand, therefore, that we are trying to breastfeed, that we are trying to highlight the positive values, which have them, of the construction of the European Union. I say one thing and I think the best news of all is the Juncker Investment Plan. The Juncker Investment Plan is, however, a late recognition of the errors in the economic policies of the European Union so far. Investments, of course! Faced with austereicide, investments. Therefore, this is reasonable news. But I will tell you one thing: Europe cannot be built unless a strong sense of European citizenship is built, and for this there must be powerful social policies. It is not reasonable for inequality to grow, for poverty to grow in Europe; this is what is growing. An absolutely precarious job that has created a new form of poverty in working people. It is not reasonable for 25% of contracts to be per day. This is what causes detachment with the European Union! And, either there is a powerful right, recognized by people, because of being European, a right of citizenship that makes it possible to defend membership of the European Union or then the European Union has its own enemy at home. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u35	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 March last the President of France convened a meeting of the presidents of the leading countries of the European Union in Versailles. He was joined by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, the President of the Council of Ministers of the Italian Republic and the President of the Government of Spain. The main objective of this meeting has been to move forward in the design of the European future at a crucial time for all, following the brexit and the apparent shift in the foreign policy of the United States, and when we are also just a few days away from commemorating the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, which will take place on 25 March. In this regard, I would like to highlight three of the reflections that the President of the Government made at the time and that he reiterated again in the rostrum this morning. First of all, the history of the European Union is a success story, although some say otherwise, although some have committed themselves this morning, Mr Iglesias, to telling a delusional story of what Europe has been. I know that you are not an admirer of Europe, basically because you and your policies have been systematically rejected in all the democratic countries of the European Union, election after election, and the only time you have given them a chance the Europeans have been able to verify the consequences of their policies in Greece. [[Applauds]] I understand that you, Mr. Churches, admire other areas. But, look, since the Treaty of Rome, the European Union has experienced the greatest period of peace and prosperity in its history. Today, the European Union is the region of the world with the most democracy and freedoms, the most respect for individual rights; we are the region of the world with the highest level of well-being, the world's first economy, the world's greatest commercial power and we have a first-class cultural, technological and scientific heritage, and that is the work of many people and generations who were here before we were here or even you came to Parliament. We are also the first region in the world to care for people in the field of pensions, health and education, with a population of more than 500 million in the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union to date. We are, by the way, Mr Iglesias, 7% of the world's population, which represents 25% of the world's wealth and spends 60% of the world's social spending. That is, Your Honor, the European Union, and when you don't know what you have, you risk losing it. The priority, as the President of the Government said in the second of his ideas, must therefore continue to strengthen our priorities: the economy and job creation, internal security and the fight against terrorism, external security and the strengthening of the common security and defence policy, immigration and asylum policies. And we have to face our future with determination. The European Commission has presented the White Paper on the future of Europe. I would have liked to hear some idea of those paths that Europe has to write and develop in the future, but I have not found them in almost any of the speeches that have been delivered here this morning. Ladies and gentlemen, both the Versailles and Berlin Summit, which was held last November so that Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Italy and Spain could say goodbye to President Obama, are a good example of our country's return to the international board with strength and influence. We have returned to the centre of decisions within the European Union, that site from which some of us have moved because we were a bad example to others, which is a reflection of the capacity and leadership of this Government and its President to return to the main areas of decision that affect our interests. But this is not just about the success of this government, it is about the success of this country, as it serves as a recognition and reward for the path of modernization and prosperity that Spain has undertaken since our entry into the European Union in 1986. They have been the best thirty years of our recent history despite the hardest crisis in recent history, and thanks to democracy, our openness to the world and our becoming a loyal, serious, reliable and constructive partner, we are overcoming the hard tests we have had to face in recent years. Among these European values, Mr Tardà, is that of respecting the judgments of the courts, the Spanish courts and also those of the European courts, because you complain about the Spanish judgments, but you do not want to comply with the judgments of the European courts when you maintain your position on the estuave and refuse to approve the decree that the government will present to this Parliament tomorrow on the estuave. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that uncertainty about Brexit remains in the current context. Following the referendum we are waiting for the United Kingdom to invoke Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, by which it will communicate its withdrawal from the Union and the start of negotiations both for its exit and for defining the future framework for relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. Spain regrets the British people's decision to withdraw from the European Union. The Union loses an important partner with which Spain maintains close economic and human relations. However, Spain must make a decisive contribution - and it will do so - to the debate on the future of the European Union and will play a leading role with its partners in establishing greater integration into policies where citizens ask us to move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore at a key moment when Spain must live up to its rightful place in Europe, between the great European countries and with the founders of the European project which is still very much in force. We will be part of the core that must lead to greater European integration. That is why I ask you today to remember, bear in mind that European policy is a state policy and that it must also be based on agreement and consensus, and that we should therefore maintain the collaborative spirit to defend this great project. After last week's European Council we saw that Europe has overcome the worst of the crisis and today, for the first time in a decade, all Member States have positive forecasts of growth and job creation. As Spaniards, we have an obligation to successfully face the consolidation of the great change of recent years. We have received a country on the verge of economic and social collapse, and today no one doubts that this Government, in very difficult circumstances, has managed to straighten out the economic situation, to save the country from disaster, to avoid rescue, to move from recession to recovery and from mass destruction of employment to the creation of 1,80,000 new jobs in Spain. In 2016 Spain has created 560,000 new jobs and has grown by 3.2% in its GDP, double what Germany has grown and triple what France or Italy has done at this time. It's data, Mr. Rivera. That's the data. Spain is doing better, and it is doing better even before you were in this Parliament, even before, thanks to you, we reached an agreement that serves and will serve to improve the future, but denying the recent past seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, a serious mistake. I would also like Mr Rivera to contribute, as he may, to the fact that this autonomous and so important region for Spain, such as Andalusia, has ceased to be the last in terms of employment and competitiveness or has also ceased to be the first in terms of corruption. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have more employment and more quality in Spain today. Undefined recruitment increases in annual terms by 8.4%, 48,975 under the age of 25 have found employment and 432,000 women have left the unemployment lists. The best weapon against poverty and exclusion - and have no doubt about it, ladies and gentlemen - is undoubtedly the creation of employment and not the demagogy of the banner or slogan, Mr. Iglesias. Thanks to the appropriate recipes of the Government and the efforts of all Spaniards, the horizon of hope and prosperity that we have for our country is recognized and admired outside our borders. It is high time that some also tried to recognize it within our borders. As the European Commission itself acknowledges in the Country Report of the European Semester 2017, things in Spain are much better. We do not admit Spain in black that some want to draw. We are aware that we still have a lot of work ahead of us, but we also have to recognize that we are a great nation of which we have many reasons to be satisfied. Our companies, ladies and gentlemen, are leaders in the world in the field of infrastructure: we build hospitals, canals, roads in the world. Spain is a leader in high-speed train design and projects with an international presence. We have a modern network of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructures, and the recently approved Juncker Plan is contributing to this, as the European development funds have done in the past. Our privileged geographical situation in Europe, the Mediterranean and near Africa and Ibero-America makes Spain one of the Member States of the European Union that contributes most to the economic and commercial position of the Union. We already export 33% of our gross domestic product and have 150,000 exporting companies, Spanish conquerors who go around the world selling our goods, our work and guaranteeing our employment. We have great challenges ahead and roles to play in our relations between Europe and regions such as Mercosur, Canada or Mexico. We are pointers in some industrial sectors as competitive as the car, and the technology of a Spanish company - that of which you, Mr.Tardà, have just spoken so badly when climbing the rostrum - has just discovered the largest oil field in the United States in the last thirty years. Spain is admired and respected in the world for our culture, for the culture of all, and also for our language, Mr Tardà. We are also a country of solidarity. Almost 14 million Spaniards receive some pension or social benefit from the effort of 18 million Spaniards who work and work every day. Although there are more than 3.7 million unemployed, which is and has to be our priority, it is fair to recognize the great change that has occurred in Spain, as a result of the sum of stories of overtaking and effort by millions of Spaniards. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, Spain's growth forecast for 2017 is 2.5 and, therefore, it is planned to create 400,000 new jobs, although that depends on the responsibility of all, and very especially that in 2017 we can adopt in this House a budget as in its day we made for the year 2016, despite the political and blocking situation that we had in this Parliament, also remains a year of growth and job creation. We cannot forget, ladies and gentlemen, that to speak of defence is to speak of security, it is to speak of freedom, it is to speak of democracy. Therefore, the best way to contribute to global peace and security and to strengthen the organizations in which we share risks and threats with our friends and allies is to commit ourselves to the security and defence of our country. Spain has been at the forefront of European defence construction since the beginning. We have participated in all the military missions launched by the European Union, but we also believe that this is an area in which much more can and must be done because the international situation demands it. The European Union also maintains its full and supportive commitment - like Spain - to the Member States to ensure internal security and combat terrorism. Of course, in Spain we place cybersecurity policies in the first lines of our agendas, a true key to protecting against what is set as the main threat to the security of digital societies of the present and future. Ladies and gentlemen, no group has referred to this, but I have to. Last Saturday we paid tribute in Madrid to the 191 people killed in the worst terrorist attack in Europe. We must maintain the unity of all political forces to fight against terrorists, who alone are guilty of barbarism and to ensure the memory, dignity and justice of their victims. [[Applauds]] May the 11-M be the European Day in memory of the victims of terrorism is a sign of the solidarity of all Europeans with us, just as we are in solidarity when others are affected by a problem as serious as this. Migration and asylum policy are one of the major challenges we face and Europe needs to give a global response to this challenge. There are no easy or cheap recipes here. No country can provide an isolated response to a problem like this. The European Union has to allow and must serve to give an operational and effective solution to the situation of so many people fleeing the war to avoid the dramas that we are experiencing every day, but let us not forget that the dramas that take place originate precisely in those conflicts and wars. At the moment, in addition to Syria, the central Mediterranean is the main focus of migration concern, so we support actions in Libya and its neighbouring countries. However, Spain also considers it necessary to address the situation in other areas, such as the Western Mediterranean route. To this end, the principles of dialogue and cooperation with countries of origin and transit must be essential, strengthening projects to create opportunities for work and training for the local young population. In Spain we have experience on how to deal with migration crises in the past. I would like to recall, ladies and gentlemen, that Spain, in 2000, was a country with 41 million inhabitants and today it is with more than 46 million, thanks to the fact that we have been able to incorporate immigration during this time and not as other countries have done. This requires supporting the stabilization and pacification of conflict zones and combating mafia trafficking in persons. Spain will therefore ensure respect for and defence of human rights and pay greater attention to the most vulnerable. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, at this moment so decisive for Europe, Spain finally has a government. He's had it since October 29. A government that works and needs parliamentary support to meet the challenges we face. It's been ten months of parliamentary uncertainty, it's been two elections, two failed investitures. Therefore, we have to reflect every day on what the Spaniards have asked us to do. The Spanish have asked us to understand each other, to dialogue with each other, to reach agreements to bring this country forward. This is what we have been asked to do at the polls, and we have to respond to that with our unequivocal will to work here in the House. In this XII Legislature we have already achieved many achievements thanks to the agreements reached with other political forces and we hope that they will be the guide for action so that it will be a fruitful, long-distance legislature, in the face of the eruption of populisms that the only thing they intend to do is impose overnight political models, failed in Europe and in other parts of the world; or else rupturist projects, that speak a lot about Europe but that what they want every day is to raise borders between us, mutilating the rights that Catalans have precisely to be Catalan, Spanish and European. We face this challenge in the People's Party from consensus, dialogue, responsibility, humility and generosity. Today we again reach out to them to continue to build among all this great country, which is Spain in a great area of development of democracy and freedoms, which is nothing other than Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u37	I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to the concerns expressed by the various Members of Parliament. Since there are many matters that have received the attention of different people, I will try not to repeat myself in order not to have an excessively extensive intervention in time. I begin by responding to the points made by Mr Hernando in his speech - the first one after mine - in this House. You haven't been an optimistic man. It is a good thing that you support the European project because, after listening to what I have heard, anything could come to my mind. That confirms to me how well I started my speech by saying that Europe was a success story and that the European project was therefore a success project. I am pleased that you say that the wording of the conclusions adopted by the European Council on the 9th day is very similar to some of the speeches that I usually make in this House. That certainly contradicts different statements made by some spokesmen in the sense of the influence that each one has on that forum, in which I know what each one says and does here - unless they have a spy - I fear they have no knowledge of what is said there. [[Applauds]] Mr Hernando, it is true that you have said that Europe has gone through a serious crisis and that there are still many problems at the moment, but I prefer to see things from another point of view. Europe has indeed gone through a monumental economic crisis, the greatest in its history, with recession, with countries threatened, with countries that had to be rescued - like those in the minds of all those present - with a continuous increase in unemployment, with many doubts about the existence or not of the euro, with statements by some and others that we were going to live in a euro at two speeds - we were going to be in the second. All that and much more we live in Europe in the years 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013. But the most important thing is that Europe has demonstrated the capacity, determination and courage to liquidate the biggest economic crisis that the European Union has experienced since the signing of the Treaty of Rome in 1957. That is one of the reasons why I am even more optimistic about the European Union project, because it has been able to overcome a crisis, such as that which our country has certainly overcome. I can understand that in your speech you have to put the emphasis on those things that are not going well - because obviously there are things that are not going well - and I can understand that you are quoting here some paragraphs from the reports of the European Commission or the OECD itself. I am not going to question them because they are true, they have not been invented, but they should all be mentioned because in the last report that the European Commission has made in recent times, among other things, it recommends the economic policies that are being carried out in Spain, and quotes three: boosting investment, continuing reforms and implementing responsible fiscal policies. All this has been done by us, including boosting investment, Mr Esteban, for a reason that we understand very well. If we had not taken decisions to overcome the serious financial crisis that our entire financial system had experienced in Spain, it is clear that credit would not have been recovered in our country, which was undoubtedly one of the decisive elements for the return of investment to Spain. No one will question whether we do not make structural reforms or have not implemented responsible fiscal policies. Yes, responsible fiscal policies that served two objectives; firstly, to fulfil our commitments to Europe and, secondly, to make a reasonable policy of spending what we had and not what we did not have; and secondly, to make it compatible with growth. Spain has managed to reduce the public deficit from 9.3% to 4.6%, which will be the deficit for 2016, thus fulfilling our commitment to Europe, while at the same time making the Spanish economy grow by 1.4% in 2014, 3.2% in 2015, 3.2% in 2016 and at least 2.5% in 2017. That is a responsible fiscal policy, which combines the inexcusable need, because it is, to control the public deficit with generating economic growth. Here we have been able to lower the public deficit and, at the same time, to be the country of the European Union with the most economic growth in the last two years. This is also recognised by the members of the Commission and by the members of the European Council. The European Commission has a mechanism to alert, as you know, to macroeconomic imbalances. For there Spain is with the same imbalances as Germany, the Netherlands or Sweden; however, below us there are other countries that I will not quote for reasons that none escapes but that are in the minds of all of you. It is worth remembering what has happened in the Spanish economy in recent years. We had a 3.2% growth in 2016, double that of the European Union. We are the country of the European Union that has created the most jobs, and we need to create much more. I think in 2019 we can reach 13% unemployment rate and we'll have to keep working hard, but it's just that we came from where we came from. We have talked here, and rightly so, about indicators of inequality and poverty, but everyone here knows, and if we don't know it really believe that we have a problem, that the greatest indicator of inequality is without any doubt unemployment. That's pure common sense. If in Spain we are experiencing a crisis where the cold of 3,400,000 jobs are lost, it is clear that inequality is increasing. But now inequality and poverty are also being reduced for another obvious reason, because 1,600,000 jobs have been created in the last three years. The data we have known about the institutions to which you have referred are fine, but they have a problem, which is made of those indicators with data for 2014. However, the latest data from the National Institute of Statistics, which already collects data for 2016, improves, and much improves, indicators in these areas. Therefore, let us be fair, more than anything not to pass on to people information that is not true, when making value judgments on the situation of the Spanish economy. In addition, our growth is balanced. We have been, and that is also very important, four years with external surplus and then there are data that are indisputable, such as the increase of confidence in the Spanish economy - that is an indisputable fact - and the reduction of the risk premium. We have been about to be unable to finance ourselves - in fact, many public institutions could not do so - and now we go to markets and sometimes they pay us for asking for credit. The data on business creation are very positive, Mr Hernando, and the end of the credit restriction is something that has undoubtedly been decisive for economic recovery in our country to be a fact. Therefore, let us put things on their just terms. The truth is that we have experienced a crisis as never before, where we lost 10% of our gross domestic product and 3,400,000 jobs and where we had all the imbalances that we had and still had. All that is true and there are still many consequences of the crisis, but I do not compare the situation today with the situation at the end of 2011 because it is profoundly unfair. [[Applauds]] Immigration. I agree substantially, although I may not think so, with what you think about how this matter should be dealt with, as the vast majority of people today, regardless of their ideology, who sit at the European Council. I'm going to tell you something because I think it's good for us all to be clear where we move in this matter. Spain is a host country like very few in the European Union - I was going to say like none, but it is never appropriate to make extreme claims -. If you take the labour force survey for the fourth quarter of 2016 - the last one I have - you will see that in Spain there are 22,745,000 assets and more than 10% are foreigners, and here are not included those people who have dual nationality, which are many. That is not the case in any of the four major countries of the European Union. If you read that same labour force survey - the last one in the fourth quarter of 2016 - you will see that of the people who are employed in Spain - i.e. working - more than 10% are foreigners and neither are counted to those who have dual nationality. There are 18,508,000 people working in Spain according to the last EPA we have known and, of them, 2,008,300 are foreigners. We are a host country and, moreover, immigration policy has been made better, because we do not live in the situation that other European countries are experiencing and that generates the political tensions to which some of you have referred in your speech this morning. Eurostat data for April 2016 indicate that in Spain foreigners out of the total number of residents are 9.6%; in Germany, 9.3%; in the United Kingdom, 8.4%; in Italy, 8.2%; and in France, 6.6%. Therefore, we are a host country; let us say so. It does not always make sense to put the emphasis on that concrete thing that goes wrong, because there are certainly many that go wrong. The problems that have arisen in connection with the decision of the European Council, which Spain approved, on relocation and resettlement have been discussed by various speakers - and I will not repeat it later. There is no doubt that things could have worked better, but blame must not be placed on all the European states, because none of the European states fulfilled their commitment. We are sixth in compliance and there are others who are going to relocate and resettle zero people. Nor do you forget something very important, which is that in addition to what is happening in Greece and Turkey, there are also many people in Spain who are seeking asylum. In 2015, asylum applications in our country rose by 150%. In 2016, the Government multiplied the number of asylum concessions by six. Spain is a country of asylum, but it is also a country that does, because it is its obligation, a policy of border control and tries to prevent anyone who considers it appropriate and desirable from entering here, because, as everyone perfectly understands, that is smooth and completely impossible. Some of the people who have intervened here say that we do not let in, but is there any country in the world that does? How many people do you want me to come in? 50,000? We can do it. 10,000? We can do that, too. 200,000? We can do that, too. And resettle and relocate everyone in the European Union. Let's do things with a minimum of wisdom and balance, because if we don't, I'm afraid it's going to be very complicated to come up with some kind of reasonable solution. Mr Hernando, you have said something about the future of Europe that is true. Now there are important problems: Brexit, elections in different countries, American elections, etc. However, I'll tell you one thing. There are so-called unique parties in different European countries, but none are in the European Council, and if there were any who came to the European Council - which I do not know - it has been recycled. Therefore, let's not say that there are extreme right parties, extreme left parties... The vast majority are moderate, sensible and reasonable people, although to some - probably to those who do not think the vast majority is so - it seems exactly the opposite. Think of something I've pointed out to you before. We have overcome the biggest crisis the European Union has had in a long time. That is a very positive fact. I agree with you that what I said about the future of Europe is not a bad thing, because, as I said at the beginning of this speech, I am absolutely convinced that they think the same, that we must continue with integration policies in the areas of security and defence, migration, the fight against terrorism and internal security, as well as economic matters. I believe that here we can understand ourselves, as we have done over many years, because we have undoubtedly been parties that have something we have collaborated in this process of European construction, although then in the debates on the European Council always happens what happens - it happened to me too when I was in the opposition -. In any case, speaking of the two-speed Europe, I believe that this is not negative and, in fact, is happening today; there are countries that are in the euro - nineteen - and there are eight countries that are not in the euro, but there are countries that are not in European policies. I am not just talking about the United Kingdom; it is about Denmark or Sweden. Therefore, there is no reason for those who want to be able to do so, without excluding anyone. If there are some countries that want to participate in a more integrated defence policy and there are others that do not, what is the solution? That since there are some who don't want others we can't do it? That doesn't make any sense either. I believe that things are done reasonably enough so that this will only have positive effects for the whole of the European Union and its future. I shall now reply to Mr Iglesias' speech, which has begun with two statements. He said that this is not a minor issue. It is true, here unfortunately we devote a lot of time to talking about minor issues - or they devote a lot of time - and when there is a question like this then we have less success in getting them to pick up what we say. I agree with that and, as I am, I will satisfy your curiosity about the wording of the speech. He talked about the editors of the speech. No, the speech was written by me, and you should have noticed it because it's frankly good. [[Laughter and applause]] I also mentioned Ortega, but I didn't mention him. The phrase in the speech of'my editors', page 25, at the end says: 'to make a stop at the crossroads before continuing our route'. That is what Ortega said in this House during another debate and not exactly on the European issue. We bet on the banking union; I bet on the banking union, only the Deposit Guarantee Fund remains. I said that I bet on fiscal union, but to do fiscal union what we have to do before is to coordinate the economic policies of all the countries of the European Union, because if it is not logical for those rich countries to say that they are not interested in a European budget or Eurobonds, because their bonds, which are now very good, are going to be mixed with the bonds of others who pay much more and are not so good. That is why, just as we did in Maastricht, we did economic indicators on inflation, on debt, on deficit, etc., and now we will have to make economic indicators of competitiveness, and all those who want to and go along with it would enter into that phase of fiscal union, which is, first of all, a budget, but not like the one that is now, a budget for the whole of Europe that allows us to do what is done in the national states. Here, when a region is wrong at a certain point, it can be helped because there is a large budget that can do so. This would be an instrument of cohesion and solidarity. And then bonds, because it is clear that if we are backed by the 27 countries of the Union that meet competitiveness indicators, it will be easier and cheaper to go to markets. That is my position; I have kept it in my initial intervention and I reiterate it now. Your Honor, there is a phrase that I hear from someone on one occasion - I don't remember it now - but it is truly magnificent. The phrase said: In Spain history is unpredictable. It is true, however paradoxical it may turn out; history should not be unpredictable because history is supposed to be an objective fact. Well, no, the story is unpredictable. Frankly, what I had read about the origin of Europe had not been found in the Communists, in the United States, in Trump or in anyone; the origin of Europe is fundamentally political. France and Germany, after two world wars, said that it could not continue like this and put coal and steel -1951 - in common, because they are certainly very useful instruments for doing the two things that were done in the 60 years preceding the Treaty of Rome. That's the story. If there were any communists or presidents of the United States out there giving instructions to France and Germany, that's something I don't know about, but what I knew is what I'm telling them here. [[Laughter and applause]] I do believe that the European Union is a success story, I firmly believe it, even if it is only because in the 60 years preceding the Treaty of Rome there were two world wars and then we entered a period of peace, democracy, freedom and human rights. That's why I think so. I believe that Europe is the most democratic region in the world. If not, I am willing to listen carefully to anyone who has a different opinion than mine. The same happens in the regime of freedoms, human rights, the rule of law - this is very important, even if some do not understand it this way; then I will refer to another intervention - the economy... The level of care for people in Spain does not exist in other countries of the world. You know what is now being discussed in one of the chambers of one of the most important countries in the world, for example on health. Here we may have budgetary problems at a specific time, but we all want a good pension system, a good health system and a good education system, and then the opposition, whoever it is, blames the government for not raising this enough or cutting it down, etc. That is why I believe that Europe is a success story, a cultural power of the highest order. Here come 75 million people a year and leave. Everyone wants to come to Europe. See the continents that we have next door and why everyone comes here. Something good we'll have. They don't come because things are wrong or because they're not taken care of. In 1975 - these are objective data - there were 12.5 million people affiliated with Social Security in Spain; in 1995, twenty years later, there were 12.5 million people affiliated with Social Security; in 1996 we met the requirements to enter the euro and we entered later, and today there are 18 million people affiliated with Social Security. Something good will have had the euro and something good will have had the economic policies that were made. From there I can do whatever self-criticism you want, although it doesn't seem most reasonable, given the tone of your interventions, let me be the one who makes self-criticism, because someone has to talk about this well. [[Applauds]] Someone's got to do it. You have made reference to the Brexit you and some other speakers. I did not mention Brexit in my initial speech because Brexit was not discussed at this European Council and I have to follow the conclusions and what was discussed there, but I can make a few comments. It is true that it has leaked - I did not go and I did not like it to leak - one of the many scenarios in which the Spanish government is working in front of the Brexit. As anyone can understand, it would be a irresponsibility on the part of the Government if we were not to see what the consequences of Brexit would be for our country. There are many scenarios, one of which has been published in a medium of communication, but it is a scenario, one more. It is impossible today to say what the effects are going to be because we do not know, for example, what the relationship is going to be, if the Brexit is consumed - I repeat, if the Brexit is consumed - between the United Kingdom and the European Union. It is not the same as there is a free trade agreement that there is nothing, and we could set many more examples. Therefore, talking about what Brexit costs us right now has a relative meaning. The important thing is to be prepared. There are things that are obvious. That the United Kingdom is going to stop contributing to the budget, that is clear. That will mean that others will have to contribute more to the budget. We'll discuss it in your day. However, the United Kingdom will no longer receive the compensation, the British cheque, and will no longer receive funds from Community policies, with which we will have to contribute less for this. What will be the net effect? Predictably we will have to contribute more, but we will see that in due course. There's been talk here about exports. Mrs Oramas referred to the Canary Islands. Indeed, but our exports to the world are 255 billion euros; to the United Kingdom we export 19 billion euros, 7.5% of our total exports. The article - which you know - which contains one of the possible scenarios speaks of a possible impact of between 500 and 1 billion euros. This would be between 0.2% and 0.4% of our total exports. But - I insist - it is very difficult for me at this time to make statements in this House with the total certainty that I am not saying something that does not respond to reality. What is clear is that the United Kingdom is a very important partner of our country. The United Kingdom is the country where Spain invests the most, followed by Brazil and the United States; it is our fourth trading partner and, as has been said here, the flow of tourists is very important not only in the Canary Islands but in the rest of Spain. The first country to issue tourists to Spain is the United Kingdom. We still do not know what the exact date is to be when Parliament or anyone in the United Kingdom is asking the European Union to leave, and from then on we will start negotiations. The only thing I want to tell you is that the Spanish Government has a ministerial committee, chaired by the Vice-President and on which all the ministries belong, which logically follows up on this matter, as it could not otherwise be. As for the number of refugees, I have already answered. Let us now go to NATO and the defence. I am a supporter, because economically we would always be better off - among other things, it is not that main, as it is natural, but even that - of moving forward in foreign and defence policy, and it is moving forward. Here I have heard one of the speakers say that I have not referred to this issue. I cannot make a three-hour speech, but what has recently been approved by the Commission, for the first time since the European Union exists, is defence spending. The next four years, EUR 90 million in a research support programme and, if it works, in the following financial perspectives, EUR 500 million per year in this area as well. A fund will also be set up to help secure military resources that would mobilise up to EUR 5 billion. This would be exempt - we still have to approve it - from deficit targets because it would have to be provided by States. But initiatives that have been adopted or are on the table in the implementation plan are also important. The permanent capacity to plan and conduct operations is important. We are talking about the possibility of cooperation in five different areas: investment cooperation, capabilities, operational trainers, coordination to resolve weaknesses and development of equipment programmes. Sometimes it is good that if a part of the countries that make up the European Union have certain capacities, then we do not have to invest in those capacities because the whole of the Union already has them. This is a matter where it is important to move forward; it is not easy, it is done slowly because it affects something very soft in the Member States of the Union, but I sincerely believe that it is good to provide funds. Mr. Iglesias asked in his speech: What is sovereignty for you? It is a set of many things, but this is the most important: it is the right of all citizens of a country to decide the future of their own country. That's sovereignty for me. [[Applauds]] Mr Vendrell has, in summary, made the following statements. First, that Europe is in crisis. I think I have already responded to that, Europe has experienced a very severe economic crisis and I think we are overcoming it at this moment. I have given a figure in my first intervention that is reasonable and that is that for the first time in time immemorial the forecasts say that in the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 one hundred percent of the countries that make up the European Union will grow and create jobs. This is a good fact and reveals that, although much remains to be done and there are many things that are not right and we have to keep making an effort, things are going a little better. I do not agree that people are not protected in Europe, I do not agree; I can say this in a different way: there is no place in the world where there is a level of protection such as that in Europe, none, either as such or from afar. And if there is, he'll tell me. He doesn't like structural reforms. I understand you don't like them, what you have to do is not adapt to the world and do nothing, no reform. Look, I have made many structural reforms in the past legislature and I am absolutely convinced that if I had not raised such reforms in the past legislature I would not be here, which is quite irrelevant, but what is relevant is that this country would be much worse than five years ago; absolutely. [[Applauds]] Disciples of the German Government, etc. This is part of politics, of evil. But there is one issue on which I would like to make a comment, which is a cohesive Europe. Yes, I am betting on a cohesive Europe and the best bet on a cohesive Europe is the commitment to fiscal union, to that Community budget which can help all the countries that are in a more difficult situation at a certain time, and to Eurobonds, because anyone who is in a more complex situation at a certain time will have access to markets, which, as you all know, has not occurred throughout the crisis we are experiencing. Mr Gómez-Reino, an illustrious Galician name, I do not know if your speech has been so illustrious. I've come to the conclusion that the only good one is you. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] I have not said that it was false, Mr Errejón, I have said that I have come to that conclusion. I'm not going in to judge you. He talked about austerity. Apart from the fact that we have made commitments, it makes every sense that we cannot be spending indefinitely over and above what we have entered. That, when it comes to governments, families or any facet of life, inevitably leads to bankruptcy, as everyone knows. He doesn't like some aspects of the CAP, infrastructure... As far as human rights are concerned, if there are no human rights in Spain, you will tell me where they are. I understand that everyone thinks as a timely and convenient estimate and so far we could get there. [[Rumors.-Several Members: You can't hear him!]] Mr Rivera, you have made a praise and a defence of the European Union that I fully share. I will not repeat the statements I made this morning so as not to tire them too much. You have to recognize mistakes, that always, in any facet of life, helps the one who recognizes it and reconciles it with himself. We have to talk about the future, I agree, in fact much of my initial speech referred to the future. I have explained that the position I have been defending in recent times was fundamentally based on three ideas. Firstly, the demand for Europe. Secondly, the attention to what we call the problems that matter most to Europeans. According to sociological studies, to the extent that we can rely on them, the problem that most affects Europeans is the problem of immigration, the second is terrorism and then the economy, throughout Europe. I think the Bratislava summit said: let's bet on this. I have already referred to this before, and I will not go back to it. And, thirdly, we are going to talk about the future, and in the future there are many of the things you have referred to in your speech. You said that you were in favour of greater economic integration, of fiscal union, and we share it, but logically this cannot be done overnight. He also spoke of political union. It is true that I have not spoken about political union in my speech. I think that is one of the last steps; or not, because it can also be done in parallel with the fiscal union. He spoke of the need to elect a European President by popular vote, and it is certainly something worth discussing; I do not see it at this time, but it is true that in life it is appropriate to look far away. He also spoke about the European Parliament. The President of the European Parliament always comes to the meeting of the European Council. It is true that he has a minor role, but last week Mr Tajani appeared there and spoke on two issues, and I asked for the floor to state that he agreed with him. He spoke, first of all, of the African continent, which undoubtedly, as some of the speakers have said this morning, is a major issue, affecting the African continent and the European continent and, as you all know, in a very important way. We are also talking there about the need, because the President of the European Parliament quoted it, to speed up the work to reach a free trade agreement with Mercosur and to renegotiate that of Mexico, which dates back to 2002. You have also made reference, within what must be European integration, to the common foreign and defence policy, to borders and migration. I absolutely agree. I believe that in Europe we are 500 million inhabitants and that, in the world to which we are going, it is appropriate to be large and, to the extent possible, self-sufficient, because we do not know what political decisions others will make in the future. It is necessary to do so in the field of defence and it is necessary to do so in the field of foreign policy, foreign security and so on. He referred to Brexit. I agree to receive here companies and people who can contribute to our country, which, as I said before, is a host country. There are very capable people here and there are very capable Spaniards in other countries. One of the great debates that always arises in Spain is that of the Spaniards who are outside, and the United Kingdom is quoted. Well, look, in the United Kingdom there are more than 800,000 Poles, 300,000 Irish, 200,000 Romanians, 200,000 Portuguese, about 200,000 Italians, 175,000 Lithuanians, 160,000 French, approximately 120,000 Germans and then Spain. That is to say, there are Spaniards in the United Kingdom, but there are many more French or German and, of course, Polish, Irish or other neighbouring countries. Without a doubt, if in the end the Brexit is consumed, Spain will give the battle. Just as we have a Commission for Brexit, we logically try to be nice to all those who are interested in coming. The truth is that it is not appropriate to advertise it too much for reasons that you understand very well. It has made a defense of free trade, and so have I; I have even suggested that the free trade agreement with the United States should continue to be attempted. It was a frustrated operation, but it was one of the most important operations that could be done in a long time. It accounted for 50 % of world trade, could have set standards and certainly would have meant a significant increase in GDP in the countries of the European Union and also in Spain. But things are what they are. We must now focus on Mercosur, Mexico, Chile and the free trade agreement with Japan, which can be concluded throughout this year 2017. What is the status quo in European economic policy? I don't see it that way. What I am saying is that Spain suffered a very important crisis. Losing 10% of GDP is no joke. We have recovered 9% and I believe that this year 2017 we are back where we were. And losing 3,400,000 jobs isn't that it's not a joke, it's that it's a nightmare and it costs a lot. Let us see if, in 2020, which is the objective we have set, we achieve this. But, well, we have overcome difficult situations: the threat of rescue, the risk premium situation, competitiveness problems; without a doubt, the school failure to which you have referred, which we are reducing and is very important because one of the reasons why many people cannot work is because of a qualification problem. It happens here and it happens elsewhere; probably more here than elsewhere. I'm going to answer Mr. Tardà now. Mr Tardà began his speech with a statement like this: while you were in Brussels and attending the European Council, here in Spain, there was an attack by judges on the rights of individuals. It was a contradiction: you in Europe, and here, in the meantime, an attack on people's rights. I will tell you one thing: a basic, fundamental and irrefutable principle of the European Union, at the level of freedom and human rights, is the rule of law, and in Europe all citizens, including also the rulers, are subject to the law, and also the people to whom you have referred. [[Applauds]] Or is it that in Europe the law does not have to be complied with, or is it that democracy and the law are not indissolubly united, Mr Tardà? It's just that that's what you have to think about. Without law there is no democracy. There is another thing different, but without law there is no democracy. So don't you tell us about threats. We don't threaten anyone here. The law is being enforced here because, I insist, it is one of the basic values of the European Union. We have reiterated that in the last decisions. It will be included in the declaration to be adopted in Rome: the obligation of everyone to comply with the law. It's absurd that at this point I have to give this kind of explanation. The most anti-European is not the things you say, Mr Tardà. The most anti-European thing is to skip the law, and one of the reasons why no one listens to your approaches in Europe is for this, because people want democracy and want the rulers to respect the law; and you should know that, Mr Tardà. [[Applauds]] You have spoken about the Brexit, about the refugee crisis, but I have already referred to these matters in my speech. He then spoke of the Juncker White Paper or the Commission. I did not make much reference in my initial speech because it was not discussed at the European Council, but it is certainly an instrument that is there and has five scenarios, you say because there is a moment of uncertainty. Well, I won't deny you the reason. Europe has progressed as we all know it has. We are now commemorating the 60th anniversary; that is, it has already rained. He's taking steps, I think in the right direction, others may think otherwise, and now there's an important moment. And why is there an important moment? Because there is a symbolic date, that of the sixties, the United Kingdom is leaving Europe and there are some elements that certainly generate concern, and you all know them very well. Of the five scenarios, Mr. Esteban gets the fifth. I'm left with a mix of the fifth and third, because the third is the one that allows those who want to move forward, and the others will already do it if they want to or when they want to. So, there are five scenarios. There is one which is very radical, which is to turn the European Union into a single market only, but I believe that the most reasonable thing is that we continue to bet on integration. I am not going to enter the referendums or what I think of the referendums, but I am going to make an observation. There has been one in Colombia, there has been one in Italy recently, there has been another in the UK, and above all that I do not think because I do not like to think about what others do, as I do not think about the consequences of all that. All I'm saying is that referendums have to be legal, Mr. Tardà, they have to comply with the law. Referendums cannot be done by winding up the law for the same reason I told you before, because in a rule of law the law is respected, if not, we would be in a very different situation than a democratic regime, and I will of course always defend the democratic regime, Mr Tardà. [[Applauds]] Mr Esteban, did the European Council make a great deal of money? It provided an important debate on a key issue, what Europe's future is, and everyone gave their views. Decisions are being taken little by little, as you know very well in the European Union. Was it eye-catching? I did not refer practically to the controversy in Tusk and the Polish Government, but I do not have to go into that matter. The vast majority voted in favour of Mr Tusk because he did so reasonably, because he has been there for two and a half years and because he seemed good to everyone. Mr Hernando also made a reference in his speech to the need - in quotes - for a division between the different families working for the future of Europe, and he is right, it is true, that was spoken of, but things were at the moment as they were. In any case, that was also on the agenda and was raised by the Maltese Prime Minister. I have taken note of Mr Esteban's statements. First, unemployment. Is that still a lot? Absolutely true, it's still a lot. Clearly, an unemployment rate like the one we have is a lot. It is less, but we still have much to recover, which is why the Government has made an economic policy that believes that it is the most reasonable to create jobs, and at the moment it is creating jobs. They help us many things, that credit has returned, that investment is increasing, that the decisions of the ECB help us, that the general wave helps us throughout Europe, but they also help us our own decisions. Let's see if we achieve the goal that we all aim for 2020. He asked what structural reforms are. I'm going to give you the example of one that I'm sure everyone understands. A structural reform is to adopt the greenhouse directive, that is a first-class structural reform, because it is also a directive of the European Union that everyone knows meets the common sense. [[Applauds]] That's a structural reform. If you can, you can, and if you can't, what are we going to do to you! Speaking of investment - because it has also been mentioned - I would like to refer to the Juncker Plan. Mr Quevedo also referred to and spoke well of the Juncker Plan. Here, when the Juncker Plan was approved, there were opinions for all tastes and some did not even think. In Spain, the fund has approved 29 infrastructure and innovation projects worth 3 billion euros; we are the second country. We hope to mobilize investment worth 17 billion. Eleven agreements have been signed with financial intermediaries for SME loans amounting to EUR 352 million, which will mobilise 6 billion in investments and affect 35,900 companies. These data are public, they are on the website of the European Investment Bank. I have here the Juncker Plan project report. [[Show a document]] I do not want to put myself here to quote companies, but there are many in terms of fleet renewal and there is even the quick bus project in Las Palmas. It is a fast bus lane and fleet increase in collaboration with the City Council of Las Palmas. Juncker contributes 50 million of a total investment of 120 million euros. But above all there are many companies in the field of innovation and, I repeat, we are the second country. With which the Juncker Plan is working, and that is why the amount of the Plan will now be increased. As far as the energy market is concerned, we absolutely agree; it is also slow, but the last meeting we have with the French Government in Malaga will already take some decisions in order to be able to ask for European funding this year 2017, which affects the Gulf of Biscay in particular. On the subject of Brexit, I have already explained my position. In the directives we are slow, yes, but we had a year where we were practically unable to introduce any bill, although I agree with you that it would be good if we were to adopt the successive directives. I think this Thursday is going to be one here and, if you're doing well, we'll approve it and then we'll catch up a little bit more. I am pleased that you agree with the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, also with Mercosur. I agree with the need to defend ourselves against the anti-competitive practices and abuses of some, particularly in the steel sector, but also in more sectors, and I believe that some have referred to the agricultural sector in its intervention. We have to move forward in security and defence. I am very much in favour of this, and I have referred to some of the issues that are under way before, but I did not want to go into my initial speech because they are more of the Council of Ministers of Defence itself. As far as immigration is concerned, I have not gone into full swing for the same reason and not to make an excessively long intervention, but I have spoken of border control. The issue of return is important, although in my opinion - and I defended it at the European Councils of Justice and Home Affairs, JHA, since I was Minister of the Interior - the most important thing in the field of immigration is to act in countries of origin and transit. That's the most important thing, and now we're starting to do it, so it's not true what some people say we don't lead some policies. That is the case, and it has cost me a lot of time because in all the European Councils I have given the baton and now important agreements have been reached with Nigeria, with Niger - there was the Minister of the Interior a few days ago - also with Sudan, with Ethiopia and with other countries. There is no doubt that we have to invest because it is the best money used, for humanity and for self-interest. From the informal meeting he has touched all the points, up to five and three of the Juncker Plan. He talks about the need to move forward. He then said one thing that I hope I did not understand correctly, and that is that you and we will agree on this subject because there is no other thing left for the Spanish Government, but this is also a problem of conviction. Look, we also have convictions, because if someone monopolizes even the patrimony of convictions, what is left to others, apart from mistakes, mistakes and terrible results? If this comes now, what do we do? [[Laughter]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to the people who have spoken on behalf of the political parties that make up the Joint Group. Mr Homs, the fiscal consolidation that is responsible is what I said before, is to reduce the public deficit, because it makes no sense to have a public deficit of 11% as that which Spain came to have in 2009, which puts one in an impossible situation, but at the same time we must try to generate economic growth. I don't think things have gone wrong. When I reached the government, the public deficit target for 2012 was 4.4. As you will understand, going down from 9.3 to 4.4 in a year and being in recession was smooth and flatly impossible. We went down, the European Commission was flexible and this year we were asked to 4.6, which I have already said we are going to meet in 2016. In 2017 it will be 3.1. That's for me the fiscal consolidation responsible. That is very difficult, very unpleasant because we all want to have money to do things, but there are times when you touch more difficult situations; it was also up to you at a certain point to deal with that situation, which is not easy. The second comment has been on immigration and on an expression used by me that may not have been very fortunate, indeed. I think it is an issue where there is no doubt that you have to have a lot of patience, it is a very difficult issue. Above all, we must be very patient because the main policy that must be applied takes a long time to produce effects. It is a matter of people living on the African continent not being forced out of their homes because they cannot live with a minimum of dignity. That involves many investments, not only education and health - as some have said here - but also taking part, indeed, in the world's economic wealth. But that's not done in half an hour, that takes a lot of time. It is clear that this is the policy that must be carried out, the improvement of the overall level of the African continent, no doubt, I say, for reasons of humanity and for reasons that are in everyone's mind; it is a policy that has to be a high priority and it is already a high priority for the European Union. I used to tell them that the first concern in Europe - sociological study - is immigration and the second terrorism, in Spain it is not, in Spain it is unemployment and the economic situation. It's good to keep those things in mind. He has also made an interpretation of history, such as Mr. Iglesias, whom he quoted in his speech. I'm not going to repeat how I interpret the story, just maybe I was taught it wrong as a child. About what happened on the 10th, look what you said. The 10th was the debate on the future of the European Union. Mr. Homs said: Everything you said a priori could share. And then you were looking for arguments to reject that statement that you yourself had made and you came to the conclusion that despite that you could not share it. You know why? Because you have no interest, Mr. Homs, in sharing it. It's not on the bottom line, it's on something else. Unmistakeable demonstration once again that these other things do no good to anyone. [[Applauds]] Mr Baldoví, I agree with you - not at all - that the Mediterranean corridor is a very important infrastructure project. See if I agree that it was this Government that initiated the works of the Mediterranean Corridor. [[Applauds]] Exactly so, and I will tell you more, we will make a great effort in the next budget to move forward with the Mediterranean corridor. He talked about Canada, about Brexit, about unfair business practices, and I agree. Well, I agree with the free trade agreement with Canada and I agree to fight unfair trade practices. About Brexit I've already explained to you before what my position is. You said: Europe is a clumsy, fearsome and selfish crab. You have a leading Europeanist spirit. [[Laughter]] I'd ask you a question: if it's clumsy, scary and selfish why does everyone want to come here? Mr Bildu spokesman, man!, Europe a private club of bankers and magnates... Here slaves of a rich north... the present, the errand boy of the European Central Bank... [[Laughter]] And then he accuses us of little Europeans. Ladies and gentlemen, what can I do in the face of such an intervention? [[Laughter]] Put yourselves in my place, and I don't do it in the mood neither to bother nor to bother, but it's okay in life to evolve from time to time, I do it. [[Applauds]] Mr Salvador, you have spoken of internal division in the European Union. It is very difficult, we are at the moment twenty-eight countries with different ways of seeing things. We're very close, but there are things that aren't so clear and that's why decisions take their time. That is why we now have to have a debate in which some want to go into a process of much more integration and others want something else. That is why we will have to agree to take steps at the pace that everyone wants. But, I insist, there is a very important core in Europe that is formed by the great forces that we can call moderation and that has an agreement that has worked - at least so far - both in the Commission and in the European Council and in Parliament itself. Those are the majority, and those and all who want to join are the ones who are gradually putting our grain of sand to make things better and to try to continue the process. On the other hand, he talked about the defence budget. In the field of defence, the commitment that the Kingdom of Spain has made at this time is the one that I made at the NATO Summit in Cardif, a while ago, and therefore we have no other commitment. It is true that everyone can say what they think is appropriate and appropriate, but of course the compromise we have is what we take in NATO at the time. I agree that it is important to deepen defence policy and also the fight against terrorism. Not only are we not free from terrorism, but, as I have just pointed out to you just now, it is the second concern of all Europeans, and we all have in mind what has happened in the last few months in many of the countries in our environment, which are part of the European Union. This is therefore a priority, and the information services in particular must, of course, work more and more closely together and be more effective. On the other hand, I have referred to the problem of immigration and I agree that undoubtedly in Africa - and probably elsewhere too - is where the battle must be fought. I also agree with regard to Navarra's connections and infrastructures and we will try to address them in the State's General Budgets, which we are already talking to your political party. As far as Mr Martínez Oblanca is concerned, he shares the European approach. The European Union is important, I believe. I'm sorry for the data you've referred to on competitiveness. In any case, there is something that is important, a country is not a government, a country is a lot of things, it's administrations - all - it's people, it's entrepreneurs, it's unions, it's workers. The Government undoubtedly has many responsibilities - probably the most - but a country is built among all and believes that the Government is going to solve all the problems without further ado I think it does not respond to reality and is not good. You have an infrastructure problem, you want us to finish the great public works - it has referred to Pajares -, we will do it and I ask you in return an effort to understand us, to know what we have to do exactly, because it is the best way to handle us. Mrs Oramas has referred only and exclusively - and she said so at first - to Brexit. 28,000 British live in the Canary Islands. In Spain, nearly 400,000 British live, many more than Spanish in the UK, but only in the Canary Islands, 28,000, which account for 30% of the island's tourists. It is very important in GDP. More than 50% of exports are to the United Kingdom. We have to take this seriously and believe me we do. You want to talk - because it is important - about the transport of goods and you have also made reference to the revaluation of the pound. It may be devaluation, but that's no longer in our hands. Let's see how events happen in the future. There are things we can do and others that will be more complicated to do. But, believe me, as I said before, it's a matter of concern to us because it's important. It would be irresponsible not to address yourself and any indication or concern that you may raise is at your disposal if we find it reasonable, that coming from you, I bet it is. Mr Quevedo, it's not a matter of being optimistic or getting your chest out either. I am realistic or trying to be, and I think that this is a project, the European one, that has worked well and that has been able to adapt to all realities and you have a strong test with the specificities of the Canary Islands, that have been attended to and are not as you know minor or minor issues. I therefore believe in this project for the reasons I have said before and one more, because it has been able to respond to what we call outermost regions, some Europeans who are, as you know, even further away than the Canary Islands, which is already quite far away. It has also referred to Brexit and we certainly care. There are 900,000 Poles there and Tusk also cares for several reasons, first because he will want to do his job well; there are 900,000 Poles there and he presides over the European Council. As far as defence policy is concerned, I have already referred to that. I am pleased that you spoke well of the Juncker Plan because it was indeed a success. He was the first to speak well of him, and the second was me. I understand your concern about inequality and poverty. All this comes, as I have pointed out before, from unemployment, not everything, but the bulk. To the extent that we are able to generate jobs in Spain all this will be renewed and to the best and that is the challenge, everything else is many things, but that does not stop being the challenge. I would like to end by thanking the People's Parliamentary Group and its spokesman, Rafael Hernando, for supporting the policies that the Government has put forward in this speech. In fact, what we have pointed out is that we believe that the objectives are clear, the objectives at the national level remain economic growth and employment, because that will also allow us to maintain and improve large public services and care for people, primarily health, education, dependency and pensions themselves. Those are the great goals. Policies should not be very different from those we have implemented. It is true that they have been the most difficult in recent years and there are important issues that are raised in various study committees in this House. I would like something to be built there and if it cannot be built later, but it is clear that there are issues on which it is absolutely essential to reach an understanding among all regardless of the positions that each has in the Courts. I share with you, as I said in my initial speech, the European bet; it is our place. Spain really has two major priorities: Europe, North Africa and, of course, for the reasons that everyone knows, Latin American countries. Europe has worked reasonably these years, there are things that must certainly be corrected, we must solve real problems and they are there. The refugee crisis has been a very important crisis, we have had to make some decisions quickly, but I think we are moving in the right direction. Frankly, betting on European integration can serve something that is absolutely necessary, because there is nothing worse than a decompensated and uncoordinated country, and if we are going to a larger European Union, what I said earlier, in relation to economic policy coordination, improving the competitiveness of countries, European budgets and issuing European bonds, it will certainly help a great deal to these European principles of solidarity and cohesion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u39	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the Socialist Group, Mr Hernando Vera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, I have given up on investing a long time in combating the rewriting of the history of the European Union, because it is the same technique and with the same objective as the rewriting of the Spanish transition, to tell us in both cases that this is a failure. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I am not going to use too much time for that. Mr. Rajoy, I'm not optimistic or pessimistic. I shall confine myself to echoing the data, figures and what both reports agree with, the OECD report and the European Commission report. In addition to agreeing almost textually in some of your paragraphs and in some of your pages, they say one thing, in which they also agree with you, by the way, and that is that it is actually growing and creating employment, but growth with inequality what it does not provide is cohesion and social progress. That's what we've been telling you for a long time. I'll stay right there. [[Rumors]] Mr Rajoy, that there is a crisis is obvious, that we are not giving it answers within the European Union, and that we are not clear as well. Because even in the white book of his co-religionary Mr Juncker when five scenarios are drawn is because things are not clear. If they were clear, five possible scenarios would not be drawn. It gives me the impression from the gesture that Mr Esteban has made that you prefer the third - I stay with third and fifth - fine, if that is right, but that things are not clear, that things have not gone well and that they have not gone as we all hoped they would go out is obvious, because there have been many obstacles on the part of some countries and because other countries or other governments have dragged their feet for a long time. It seems to me that this is what has happened to your Government in the four years of the previous parliamentary term in relation to the European Union. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u41	Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u42	Thank you, Madam President. In this regard, we are most likely to need that enhanced cooperation mechanism. I would insist that we continue to prefer to speak of enhanced cooperation rather than of both speeds, because this is an expression that does not widen, but limits the possibilities for the incorporation of different States into a form of concerted voluntary action. Enhanced cooperation does not exclude anyone. I would also like to reiterate to you that Spain must be there at all times, in that strengthened cooperation, Mr Rajoy, which must involve more integration. We cannot therefore play sad roles again, because, Mr Rajoy, we have not been in enhanced cooperation which is very important from an economic point of view, which is the European unitary patent. That's where we're out. We have not put forward any initiatives on this subject, but we are out there. Therefore, Mr Rajoy, we want this situation not to happen again. You say that Spain is a host country and that it is a country of asylum. Don't change the subject. We are asking you about the 17,000 and the commitment that Spain has to those 17,000. It's like when I ask my daughter an uncomfortable question and she changes the subject. We already know that Spain has welcomed many immigrants in recent years despite you - I have to tell you - who have opposed the regularisations, who have opposed the work and residence permits so that they have rights, who have opposed the health cards, which even prevented them from having the right to strike, demonstration, union and assembly. Spain is therefore what it is about immigration and it is a plural society in spite of you and the policies that you have advocated all these years. [[Applauds]] But what I'm telling you is, don't change the subject. What about the 17,000, Mr. Rajoy? I'm going to tell you the three problems you have with those 17,000 very quickly. First, it has a problem of processing and choice. Or send officials there to do so or trust what other countries and other officials tell you and bring them to you. Secondly, it has a very serious problem of reception places. You have it and you know it. There are a very limited number of public squares -400, the same for thirty years, in three sites: Mislata, Vallecas and Alcobendas - and three large organizations that are currently providing 5,000 places. If you want to host 17,000 and you have 16,000 left for the next ten months, you have no seats right now. Either put more money and invest more or there's nothing to do. You can also attend to what the Autonomous Communities are offering you, knowing that not all the places that the Autonomous Communities are offering are adequate. Put more money and solve the third important problem: have will, Mr Rajoy. For now, you have shown no willingness to welcome immigrants. [[Applauds]] I'm done with this very quickly. Mr Rajoy, get up here - or do it from the seat, as you naturally wish - and tell us whether we are going to welcome at the end of the year, on 31 December or 31 September, the 17,000 who have corresponded to us or will reformulate that figure. If so, how many a month and how much money will it put in the next few months to be able to do so? It is very simple, Mr Rajoy, not to change the subject on this issue. Finally, I will tell you that citizens will not regain confidence in the European Union - in the Council, in the Commission and in Parliament - if these institutions do not deal with real life and the real problems of citizens and if there is no real social integration. Nevertheless, the European Union will move forward, but it will be a gruesome step forward, and that is what we do not want for this European Union, which we do believe has been a success despite all the obstacles that have been put in place. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u43	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, I congratulate you because the first words of your government partner's intervention were precisely to attack the opposition, so I congratulate you because you have a fairly stable government. You too, Mr Hernando, change the subject when you ask uncomfortable questions. What was that 'no' thing like, Mr. Hernando? Finally, it gives me the impression that when we debate important things we see perfectly who rules in this country, what bloc of government we have in this country and who is opposed. Mr Hernando, there's a very cruel Spanish saying that says 'little biting farmer dog', but despite everything I recognize that you manage to provoke me, quite the opposite of Mr Rajoy, who manages to make me smile. You have said that it is disappointing to talk about failures in the European Union. I will give you a very quick example, how would you rate the referendums in France, the referendums in Denmark and the first referendum that took place in Ireland? [[Applauds]] The problem is that democracy seems to you to be a mess and a failure, but the European Union has a problem with democracy, because every time they let the Europeans vote they say they are not happy with the Union's project. You have claimed the European Union as something associated with human rights, the state of welfare and social spending, precisely what you are destroying with your policies in Spain and what is happening to better life in Europe, the state of welfare, social spending and social rights, for the austerity and cutbacks policies that you have defended. [[Applauds]] You said that we have no proposals, I make three very quick. First, to protect the welfare state; that is incompatible with the stability pact and with the cuts. Secondly, expansionary policies, what was called Keynesianism after the crisis of 29th and which has to do with defending the industry; and that means defending the stowers and defending Navantia, as well as defending the researchers, who were yesterday expelled from this House. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, human rights. The human rights you claimed with regard to Europe are incompatible with the European Union's concertinas and foreign policy. The European Union was responsible for destroying Libya, but before that Gaddafi for the European Union was what Mr Franklin Roosevelt called Mr Somoza: he is a son of a bitch, but he is our son of a bitch. The dirty work of the European Union in Africa was being done by a dictator named Gaddafi, who gave jams and horses to Mr José María Aznar. Clean your mouth to talk about human rights. [[Applauds]] Mr Hernando, you have spoken of companies as Spanish conquerors. It's a lie, there's no more Spaniards left in those companies, in those companies they now send foreign investment funds like BlackRock. First you privatized Spanish companies and handed them over to your friends, who are not entrepreneurs, are the lumpen oligarchy of this country, which has never been able to grow but by proximity to their governments. [[Applauds]] Then they turned our economy into a funded economy and, thirdly, they are selling these companies to foreign investment funds. You're the political fraction of an anti-patriot plot, that's what you are. [[Applauds]] Your economic policy, Mr Hernando, had a name, Rodrigo Rato, an alleged criminal, and has a symbol, Bankia; you do not presume economic policy within the framework of the European Union. Finally, you spoke of the 11-M - you, the 11-M - with José María Aznar lying to all the citizens and calling all the newspaper directors of this country to assure them that ETA was behind the 11-M, with the foreign minister of this country giving orders to the embassies of our country of the official version, which was a lie. I was at his party headquarters on 13 March, the same one that was 13 hours ago recording the police, and I remember what people were saying: your wars, our deaths, Mr. Hernando. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rajoy, I had no idea that the virus of brother-in-law had gone so far. I saw you closer to the neighbor and the mayor, but it's clear that it's a virus that spreads. Nothing, it turns out that the history of the European Union is that a Frenchman arrived and agreed with a German. There is no political and geopolitical reality of World War II. There are no social forces that explain the history of the twentieth century. Look, as Spanish, there are images of the president of my country that embarrass me. Much criticism has been expressed that he did not respond to the BBC journalist. The problem is not English, Mr Rajoy, is that if you do not understand the question you can answer: do you ask me the question in Spanish? That's what Theresa May would have said if a journalist here had asked him in Spanish. But by ignoring the question you give an image of our country that is not the image that our country needs, it is that image of brothers-in-law like the book that you are promoting why a Swedish would want to be Spanish. It is not the image of my homeland that I want to be known abroad, an image linked to perocrulls and sister-in-laws, gentlemen of the PP. Finally, with regard to sovereignty - in this I agree with you - the right of the citizens of a country to decide on their own future, exactly the opposite of what you did by agreeing with this party to reform Article 135 of the Constitution, to surrender the sovereignty of our homeland. [[Applauds]] But today, as chairman of my parliamentary group, I guarantee you one thing: if you and your friend Hernando try to change the Constitution again, I assure you that that will be voted on by all the Spaniards who will exercise sovereignty, because this country has changed and you no longer have enough majority to make a constitutional reform without a referendum. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u45	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u46	Thank you, President. Four questions, Mr Rajoy. The first is OECD data. The headline we saw yesterday in that report is very clear: the OECD is asking Spain for a plan against labour poverty. It's not that you've gone from point to point, it's that you haven't come in to talk about job poverty. It seems to you that the only relevant data is the unemployment rate, which is by the way very high. 19 % unemployment or 40 % youth unemployment is already shameful in itself. But above that Spain is the most precarious country, don't you care, Mr Rajoy? Do you really believe that the only job reform that needs to be done is the patch that they made in the last legislature? Don't you worry about people getting up every morning, going to work more hours than a clock and not getting to the end of the month? Isn't this a concern of our government? Isn't that a concern for a decent country? In democracy, Mr Rajoy, especially in a welfare state like ours, it is not only important to have work, it is important to have dignity, and it is not worthy of people getting up every day to go to work and not coming to the end of the month: seven million Spaniards, Mr Rajoy, I repeat. I propose that, instead of the immobilism of the People's Party, we be braver. Let's go to a flexible, modern, advanced model, like the one they have in Denmark, where on the one hand all contracts from the first day are stable contracts and the connection with the company is growing. In short, that when you sign a contract you are not shaking if you are placed in three months, six months or twelve months or if you chain six contracts in a row. This is not an opinion, Mr Rajoy. The European Union has stuck a glue to us literally with two sentences on interims and you are still not acting, you are still not proposing a reform. Our group will act, we will propose a reform so that in Spain a person who does the same work does not have different contracts, that whoever is working in a company does not worry about the date on which he signed the contract or whether his contract is temporary or fixed, but is concerned about working and training. The main concern of many workers today is that they end the date of the contract, rather than work, undertake and improve their training. [[Applauds]] He has not said any of this, which is Spain's main problem according to the OECD, with zero ambition in the fight for quality in employment. Secondly, Mr Rajoy, the commitment we have made to the refugees. The refugees, Mr Rajoy, flee from a war, flee from terrorism; they flee from the same thing that we have to fight that is terrorism and war. By the way, Europe's external inaction is also causing Europe to paint nothing in those wars, to stop them and to put an end to the barbarities we are seeing. If Europe had foreign policy, as some of us want, perhaps we could act to avoid war or to achieve peace. And, in addition, we could welcome the refugees and commit ourselves; Spain is not fulfilling the solidarity to which we committed ourselves. I simply ask you not to increase that, but to comply with what this country has signed. Thirdly, Mr Rajoy, the common unemployment fund. He did not mention it either. I'm asking you, please, to put this away. We are the main country concerned about this. A cohesion fund against unemployment at European level would also be a sign for many young people, Spanish and European in general, who see that Europe is not only a place where you get VAT or IRPF but can also be a place where they guarantee that if you run out of work you will not be left on the street, where they guarantee you useful active policies. I ask that Spain also lead the common social policies in Europe and not just say yes and amen head to everything our partners propose to us. The fourth point, Mr Rajoy, in this case concerns foreign policy and I have referred to it. You said you didn't have three hours to intervene. Neither have I, but I have treated it and you have not, because I am concerned; I am concerned that in a globalised world like we are, we do not have a common foreign policy and that when Europe has to speak out on foreign policy issues we are mute, say nothing or, worse still, say contradictory things. I believe that the common European policy is not only of internal borders but, above all, of external borders. As far as free trade treaties are concerned, I have already told you, I totally agree. I think it's an opportunity. If Mr Trump wants to close borders and put tariffs, let's take advantage of the fact that European products, European services, European companies get better in Canada, get better in Mercosur, get better in Japan, get better in Mexico, get better in Chile. So all the support of the world in this case from our group for Spain to lead, especially with Latin America, these trade relations. We have heard some comments referring to foreigners. The previous speaker was practically lacking to say: damned foreigners who come to buy shares of companies or to work in our country. The autarchy in the 21st century, Mr. Iglesias, makes no sense; the autarchy is very old, it doesn't matter if it's left, right or half brother-in-law, like you. It doesn't make sense to do an autarchic policy. That ended with Francoism and the autonomous policy of 'Spain for the Spaniards' no longer exists. Spain is Europe, Spain is the world and it does not seem to me bad that companies come, that skilled workers come, that people come to this country to start. What a fear you are! He spoke of foreigners as if they were guilty of our evils. That is very old, the evils of Spain are our fault in large part and the evils of Europe are the fault of Europe, not of the damned foreigners, as you would like. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. We are not afraid of globalization, what we want is to win the party of globalization. Globalization cannot be tied, lost or won, and Spain has an option to take the lead in opening policies and not in self-government policies, freedom policies and not protectionism and win the battle because this is a great country, with a lot of talent but we need to move. If we stand still, if we tie, in the end, in globalization, you lose. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u48	Mr Rajoy, for democracy to exist, at least for quality democracy to exist, laws must be democratic and, above all, legitimate. And a law that prevents Catalan citizens from voting is not democratic. And if this law is retorted, it is less democratic. I remember that the former president of the Constitutional Court, by the way, militant of the People's Party or ex-militant, said - note that doctrine -: Democracy does not consist in voting when you want. And he stayed so calm. This gentleman has been president of the Constitutional Court. So if you politicians, at least those who have the rule of state, do not have too much democratic ambition, it is clear that we are facing a major conflict. We agree with you in your definition of sovereignty. Look, I agree with you. That is why the Catalans want to decide the future of our country, which turns out to be Catalonia. Yes, we have not only been a nation for a thousand years, but there has also been a persevering will for centuries to continue to be a nation. Now it turns out - let's see, the story is so anomalous - that there are 80% Catalans, perhaps a little more because the percentage is rising, that, whether they feel absolute and only Catalans or feel Catalans and Spanish, they want to vote and want to vote in a referendum. What's the problem? The problem is that you do not want to change the law, the problem is not the law, the problem is that there is no democratic will to adapt the law - we are in Europe, right? - to the democratic mandate. Where are you? They are installed in the old idea of stick and tempting. Is this European? Mr. Rajoy, this is from the other day. This could certainly be carried in the Spanish State before we lived in a formal democracy and, above all, before we had entered as a State within the framework of the European Union. When we were not yet in the European Union, the Catalans, but also all the citizens of all the nations of the current Spanish state, we lived in vilo. The proof is that what was attempted was attempted here in 1981. The problem is political will. In a few months you will go to another meeting in Europe, I think in June. It is possible that in June the Parliament of Catalonia passed the law that will allow the referendum to be legal, and then they will ask you: what are you going to do? And what will you tell them?, that after Homs, after Mas, after Rigau, after Ortega, now you intend to disable and perhaps imprison the Speaker of Parliament, Carme Forcadell? Then who's coming? Jokes? Perhaps so; if you succeed, Junqueras will come. Then, Puigdemont? And what will he tell them?: Don't worry, our theory, the application of the stick and tempting, is bearing fruit. We already have Puigdemont under control, that's all, we've threatened him in such a way that he's going to fall asleep. Do you think this in Europe will allow it? By the way, how many democratic Spanish citizens are going to accept this misery? How many? [[Applauds]] A colleague has given me the translation of the Catalan saying and told me that it is going to go for wood and get cut off. [[Several Members: A for wool]] A for wool, it's true. One is bilingual and proud to be so, but he has his difficulties and if not to be asked by others. [[Laughter]] I recognize the mistake, go for wool and get ripped off. This is what will happen to you because you are subscribed to the authoritarian solution. We are Europe, we want a better Europe and we will achieve it. The Catalans have a small country, of course, but I think we will make every effort to bring to Europe all that we can humbly do, which will be a lot because we come from many years of yearning and longing for freedom. Here you go, Mr. Rajoy. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u50	Madam President, very briefly. Mr Hernando, you were wondering about the answers this government has given to the crisis over this time. For precisely these were the answers that you did not want to give at the time: to deal with the problems; to analyse the situation; to recognize it; not to continue to affirm that of the Champions League, of the green outbreaks or that we had the most healthy financial sector in Europe precisely in order to do nothing. These were the answers that we have given to 3.5 million Spaniards and that we are giving to those you have left unemployed, of which 1.8 have already found a job opportunity. [[Applauds]] Mr. Iglesias, I do not intend to provoke you. You don't provoke me, you stimulate me. Let me tell you that the descriptions you make of the history of Spain and Europe are delirious. This is what I have maintained, and has explained it to you, even better than I and with more experience, because for that you have it, Mr President of the Government. This is what I wanted to explain to you. You are still many light years away from being the leader of the opposition. To be leader of the opposition you have to want to build something, not come here and go up to the rostrum to insult everyone and to rot against everyone, sometimes with many falsehoods like those that you have pronounced in your second rostrum in the rostrum. I will not talk or compete with you about cleaning your mouth, everyone owns your personal hygiene and I have no interest in knowing yours, but I will tell you one thing about this and about human rights. It would fill me with indignity to have uttered some of the phrases that are known to you. That'd whip her till she bled out. That of 'we make masculine politics with balls', that of 'a lower-class gentuza than ours', that of you writing tweets to threaten journalists who do not commune with what you want or do not say what you want, that is not defending human rights, Mr. Churches. You have to change many things and you have to ask in this House for forgiveness for many of the things you do and say, unfortunately. [[Applauds]] I am lucky to have defended an ideology since childhood, which has been that of liberalism, conservatism and Christian democracy. These are three ideological lines that have served to shape Europe. You have defended since you were little those of communism, which are the ones that are the most dead, the most repression and the most dictatorship have imposed not only in Europe but in the rest of the world, Mr. Iglesias. [[Applauds]] Look at you - to finish -, sovereignty? Sure. Sovereignty to defend the sovereignty of the Spaniards, not to fill your pockets as some of you have done defending the sovereignty of other countries that were not precisely an example of democracy and freedoms in the world, and I am talking about Iran, Venezuela or other regimes of chavismo. [[Applauds]] This is what I had to say, although, as you have seen, you do not provoke me, you simply stimulate me. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u51	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to use this last shift to remind the House of the purpose of my speech here today. The aim was to explain, firstly, what had happened at the last European Council held on 9 March in Brussels and, secondly, to explain the debate that we had on 10, an informal meeting, without the presence of the United Kingdom, with a view to the summit to be held in Rome on 25 March, which serves to commemorate the sixtieth anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. That was the goal I wanted to convey to all of you, and I'll sum it up in two minutes. The European Union has worked well over the years. The European Union has had its problems, but it has been able to overcome them, fundamentally the highest economic crisis we have experienced in recent years. Now, I think we need to devote more attention to solving the real problems of the citizens to whom I referred earlier. And, on the other hand, we must bet on an integration project. In addition to referring to this issue, in my speech I focused on Spanish economic policy, since the basic theme of this European Council was precisely the European Semester. I said that the Spanish economy is much better today than at the end of 2011, that the worst has happened and that there are still important challenges to overcome. From there, each one has spoken, as it is natural, of what he considers appropriate and convenient. And now, without more encouragement than being courteous to all of you, I will respond to some of the things you have said in your speeches. Mr Hernando has returned with OECD data and Commission data, but the biggest rise in inequality in Spain occurred between 2007 and 2011. That is in each and every one of the statistics that you have not quoted today. Moreover, it is logical because there has been the greatest increase in unemployment and, as you know, the greater increase in unemployment, the greater increase in inequality, and the lesser increase in unemployment, the lesser increase in inequality or the decrease in inequality, if you want to see it in another way. He also talked about the white paper and, in the end, he said the same thing as me, that if I had to choose between one, it would be between the third and the fifth. He says things aren't clear. Of course they're not clear! And who said they were clear? If they were clear, we would not have a debate between those who want more integration, those who want less, those who want two speeds or strengthened cooperation, as you said, we would not have to meet in Rome or do anything. We would simply have already made all the decisions and we would not even be debating here. Honestly, I don't understand. Mr Juncker, who does not take the decision, because it is up to the European Council, puts on the table a very useful document, and there will be people who might like solution one, two or four more. I propose, that I am the one who defends Spain there, are the five and the three, and then we will see what happens in the future. Well, you're in three and five; you're in enhanced cooperation and not in the two-speed Union. I too prefer it to be called enhanced cooperation, nor does it seem to me to be an absolutely insurmountable problem. Therefore, in this matter - which, by the way, was supposed to be the most important of today - we agree. The same applies to host countries, labour force data and labour force data. We are the sixth country in the European Union to fulfil our relocation commitments. We could be the first or we could be the twenty-fifth, but we're the sixth country. I don't think I should go into details, but it's often very difficult for more people to come in at a certain time because they're not documented, you don't know which country they are and you don't know if they're people who are there for political or purely economic reasons. But there is one fact that is much more relevant, and that is that in the last two years - look, because you have given some numbers - on Spanish soil there have been 42,000 asylum applications, much more than all our relocation and resettlement commitments. We should also talk about this; much more than all our commitments. Spain is the fifth state where asylum files processed have increased the most; 167 per cent increase. Many of them are Syrians, but now the largest number of asylum applications in Spain come from Venezuela. Well, these are the changes that are taking place right now in our country. Therefore, I cannot accept, in any way, that it would make a global disqualification of our immigration approaches. Mr Iglesias has said that Europe has failed because the referendums in France, Denmark and Ireland did not have the support of the citizens at the time, but the truth is that in the end Europe had sufficient mechanisms to solve a problem and there is after more than sixty years the European project, which enjoys excellent health, and now we are debating progress on integration. He says the reason is that three referendums have failed, when there were others who did not fail. The reason why the European project is a success, Mr Churches, is not that one referendum has failed or that another referendum has been successful, because it is not easy - we are talking about twenty-eight countries -; the reason is that after two world wars we have agreed to live in the region with more peace, more freedom and more human rights. A region where the law and the rule of law are respected, where there is democracy and where there is a welfare system as there is nowhere. Then, from there you can build the discourse that you consider appropriate and convenient - and that is why you defend it - and list a litany of things that go wrong, because I can give you fifty folios saying that also go wrong this, this and this. But in the end, as always happens in every human work, what it is about is to know if in the essentials we are doing well - that I think we are doing well and that is why I defend it - and try to correct those things that don't work that way. I think that at this stage, after all that Europe has experienced in recent times, I do not know whether the project or the content of that project is something that seems absolutely out of place. It's very difficult to argue. It's easy to make statements - that's easy -; reasoning them is already a little more complicated. I rise to this rostrum to say that in the field of human rights, social spending and welfare state this is a disaster, but please tell me a place in the world where human rights, social spending and welfare state are better than in Europe. On which continent, on which we have below, or on the continent we have to the east, or crossing the Atlantic Ocean? [[Rumors]] You say that in this House, because it is also appropriate to compare with someone from time to time. If the comparison is made with the design of the ideal world that you have in your head, then surely it is impossible, you always win; the others have no chance to say anything. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said before that history - and more and more, which is worrying - is unpredictable. He talked about the mayor and the neighbor. Well, look, it was an agreement between neighbors, just like the Swedish you were referring to was not a Swedish; he was a Norwegian. [[Laughter]] Look at him. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera referred to five or six specific topics in his speech. We are studying the issue of interims, which is not easy. It has its consequences and it is preferable to study it well. We have set up a committee of experts with people who have expressed their views and we will make a decision when possible. I also agree with the question of precariousness, but 75% of people working in Spain have a fixed contract, and that happens in few places and has happened very rarely in our country's past history. We are at the highest point in terms of fixed contracts. Is there no doubt that a single contract can be made? Yes, but we have to see the consequences of the single contract, because we run the serious risk of no one hiring. There are some activities that because of their way of being - and because it could not be otherwise - do not accept fixed contracts. If someone has to hire a person, for example, in the hospitality sector because he opens three days a month, what do you want?, let him make someone a fixed contract of three days a month? Then there can't be a single contract. Those contracts will never be fixed, but by pure common sense. I'm willing to consider everything you want, but I honestly don't see any solution to this. I have already referred to the issue of refugees. As far as the European unemployment fund is concerned, that is fine; I am not against the European unemployment fund, but I am not against the political union we have talked about before; I am also not against the fiscal union; nor am I against the European budget, the Eurobonds, or greater coordination of European policies, but that is my opinion, and yours. The problem here is that many, as many as twenty-eight countries think. Europe was not built in half an hour and the euro was not born in 1958, neither in 1960, nor in 1970. Europe is gradually being built, with its debates and with different opinions, and agreement and understanding are being sought. There is no doubt that much progress has not been made in social Europe, but it is something that can be made in the future, as in fiscal union, as in political and defence union and as in the political issues to which I have previously referred. I agree with what you said about free trade. History and objective data show with meridian clarity that if countries open out, they are better off in terms of growth, employment and even civilization. Mr. Tardà, what you say, right? But there are two things that seem obvious to me: first, that the law must be complied with, Mr. Tardà. It's not that hard. This is understood by everyone. If you do not comply with the law, the others do not have an obligation to comply with it either. So, a judge will tell a person who doesn't comply with the law because he doesn't want to. For the same reason as you? Do you think a country can work that way? Unless you invent a system that consists of the only ones that have to comply with the law are us. You are exempt from the law. Why? Why do you say that? Maybe that's a good argument, but let some of us question it. The President of the European Parliament has said - this is the problem because nobody listens to them in Europe - that going against the Constitution is going against the European Union. You used to quote me from the Venice Commission. Listen, Mr. Tardà, listen. Look at what the Venice Commission says: When a public authority refuses to execute a ruling of the Constitutional Court, it violates the Constitution, including the principles of the rule of law, the separation of powers and the principle of loyal cooperation between State public institutions, and the measures that drive enforcement are legitimate. Mr Tardà, that does not have to be said by anyone, this is of pure common sense, it is on the foundations of the coexistence of any civilized country, and we are, despite the fact that some - I do not know why - seem to be on another wave. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u53	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u54	We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Hernando Vera, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, the political situation in Catalonia is becoming more complicated, it is becoming more worrying every day, and there is no explanation to the citizens about the measures the Government has in its portfolio to channel it. That's why I'm asking you what steps you're going to take, Mr. Rajoy.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u57	The first thing my Government is going to do is to fulfil its duty, and the duty of every Government on this issue is to work in the interests of all Catalans, to cooperate loyally with the autonomous institutions and of course to preserve the constitutional order and respect for the legality and the rights and freedoms of all citizens. It is just what we have been doing and what we continue to do, and we certainly hope to have the support of the Socialist Party because I believe that this is above the party colors: we are talking about the unity of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Hernando, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u59	Mr President, you are going to ensure compliance with the law and the Constitution, I suppose, would be missing more! I know that it will do so in connection with the last decisions of the Catalan Parliament which intended to eliminate the law under the pretext of the ballot box and which now seeks to break the rules of the game when everyone knows that democracy is law enforcement, respect for the judgments of the courts and compliance with them and pre-established procedures. But what I am asking you to do today is to go a little further and tell us something else, not to stay in this mantra of the law or in a dialogue that for now is an empty set. There's a lot of noise, there's a huge environmental noise, but then there's a sepulchral silence. On the one hand, there is the reductionism of those who say that, if we do not accept an independentist referendum that they want to impose on us, we are doing nothing and, on the other, we are opposing them the reductionism of those who do not want to take a single step of political content. Moreover, the situation is complicated as a result of the discovery of evidence on the alleged illegal financing of the former Convergence, which is used at the convenience of one or the other; by some, to say that it is an attack on Catalonia what is the normal functioning of justice and, by others, to deny or devalue claims that support millions of citizens and that have a political and social complexity evident from the point of view of my group. I told him that the law protects him, but that same law obliges him to dialogue and cooperation; dialogue and cooperation to defend the general interests of all citizens, including those of Catalonia, who are being damaged by this situation. We have been in Spain too long without having an important part of Spain, such as Catalonia, to work for getting out of the crisis, for recovery, for social sustainability and for advancing institutional normality. Mr Rajoy, my party is ready to move forward. We have put documents on the table and I am convinced that others are also willing to move forward, but it is up to you to act as President of the Government in the face of such a serious problem. If you really believe in this country, do not make it difficult for this country in relation to Catalonia, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u60	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that it is up to you - I do not know why - to make this kind of intervention and I believe that I, as President of the Government, should be cautious and say that the defence of legality does not exclude political and institutional dialogue or vice versa. And since we are the government of all Spaniards, and therefore of all Catalans, we make decisions that affect everyone. And we take them on investments in Catalonia, we put in place policies in the field of our competence, we recently held a conference of presidents - to which the President of the Generalitat, although they were important issues for Catalans, did not want to come -. But this does not have to surprise anyone because we have been doing politics in Catalonia for a long time; for example, so that the community could continue to finance itself, so that public services could be maintained, so that the providers of the Generalitat and other administrations could collect, so that debt repayments could be met, so that significant investments could be made and that autonomous institutions could not be economically broken. From there, I remain fully prepared for dialogue with the autonomous institutions since loyalty, that is, the law, the Constitution and the status of autonomy. From there, I am also willing to talk to you and listen carefully to the suggestions you want to put on the table, but I am afraid that you have not given me any ideas to resolve this matter. So, frankly, I don't understand this question. I'm quite frank with you, Mr. Hernando. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT'S AID TO COMBAT THE PROPOSAL OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENT'S LAW ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A FUND OF COMPENSATION TO THE VICTIMES OF LOVE? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00161]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u62	Question, also addressed to the President, by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u63	What argument does the Government make to oppose the handling of the proposed law of the Basque Parliament on the creation of a compensation fund for asbestos victims?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u65	The Government did not lend its consent to the handling of this initiative to which you refer under Article 134(6) of the Constitution, which also contains the House's own Rules of Procedure. There were budgets, this meant an increase in expenditure, and the Government therefore exercised the competence conferred on it by the Constitution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u67	Thank you very much. Mr President, it seems to me that in this case it does not serve that excuse, let me describe it as such, apart from the fact that the problem is already very important and that there are more and more affected citizens in the State. By the way, he announced that today a delegation from the Basque Parliament has re-registered the initiative. In this case, the third additional provision expressly stated that the Government would determine, at the time of the adoption of the decree, how much would enter into force and that under no circumstances would the increase in the overall amount recorded in the general budget items in force at the start of the activities of the autonomous body alter the budget. In other words, there is not yet a budget, but it is also possible to pass the law perfectly and, with the third additional provision, it could be the budget for the following year. Why not? But many of the initiatives that have been presented to Parliament do not have to affect the current budget. Of course they're going to affect a budget, but why the current one? And I am afraid that there has been an abuse by the government of the impossibility of amending and increasing budget expenditure. If you do enough, it has been nothing more and nothing less than twenty-one times, six in the case of autonomous communities, fifteen in the case of propositions from the groups of the House. I am afraid this is an attitude towards Parliament, Mr President. Beyond the abuse of this legislation and the spirit of the law, what happens with the introduction of bills in the House? Do we continue with the dynamics of presenting decrees laws, as it did when it even had an absolute majority? Four bills submitted at the beginning of the legislature, eleven decrees, nothing less. The Constitution says that they must be in case of extraordinary or urgent need, but that is not the work of Parliament. Therefore, what he has to do is to introduce bills and not decree laws. I know that your parliamentary group and the government are different - I know the theory - but let us go to practice, you are paralysing - by extending the time limits for discussion of the legislative proposals adopted in this House at the stage of consideration - with the socialist collaboration and sometimes of Podemos and of Citizens, the discussion and the adoption of laws in this House. And that's not the attitude, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u69	It is worth remembering this story, without going into background issues. The People's Parliamentary Group put forward a bill in the Basque Parliament to create this fund and the PNV and the Socialist Party voted against the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group. And what did they do? Bring him to this House so that the fund will be created here from the General Budgets of the State. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo: No]] We should all remember this story well, Mr. Esteban. [[Applauds]] Yeah, yeah, it's okay because then one comes in here and gets hit by a grudge. [[Laughter]] Your Honor, I am prepared to deal with this matter with you, but to deal with it seriously. At this time, people with asbestos-related diseases are being treated by Social Security. I am willing to talk to you about this and to build, what is not funny is that these kinds of approaches are made and one is placed here as a champion of the defence of people who have had problems, who are on the other hand very serious, and that attempts are made to throw the dead into the Government of Spain. So let's talk, but let's do it wisely, seriously and if you want with light and tachographs, and if not also, that's how things work out best. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u70	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON'T PEDRO DEVEDO ITURB, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DO YOU THINK IT IS THE OPPORTUNITY TO AMEND THE INJUST AND ANTI-DEMOCRATIC CANARY ELECTORAL SYSTEM, WHEREAS THE NEW STATUS OF CANARY AUTONOMY IS CURRENT? [[File number 180/000159]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u71	Question by Mr Pedro Quevedo Iturbe, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group, to the President of the Government. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Do you think it is an opportunity to change the unjust and anti-democratic electoral system of the Canary Islands, since the new Statute of Autonomy of the Canary Islands is currently under way in the House?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo, I am not going to go in and qualify, as you have done, also in the text of your question, the electoral system in the Canary Islands. I suppose it will have been approved by the Canarian Parliament in its day, and I suppose most of it. It is therefore not for me to make any decision on this matter. What I am saying is that the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy is currently in this House and that from there we can talk about that matter or any other matter that you may want to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u76	I will give you some information, Mr Rajoy, so that you understand the seriousness of this issue. In the Canary Islands, the People's Party was the second political force and has twelve deputies. The third political force has eighteen deputies. A political force in this House with 52,000 votes has zero deputies. And another political force that is not in this House but is in the Canary Islands has 5,000 votes and has three deputies. This apparent gallimacy is not the result of chance, it is a consequence of the current canary electoral system. And I have to tell you that the current one has been approved by this House, and the previous one too; that is, this House has competence in this matter. There is a democratic deficit that needs to be resolved. Electoral barriers of 6% and 30%. This is an exoticism that does not occur in the Spanish state, in Europe or in the democratic world, which we have studied. Disproportion in the level of votes. The value of the votes is such that 18% of the population have half of the Members and the remaining 82% have the other half of the Members. And this anomaly has to be resolved. This system has been applied for thirty-five years by a transitional provision in the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy. We are telling you that it is clear that it has to be resolved in the Canary Islands, of course, through a law that has not been done because it has not been wanted, but taking advantage of the fact that the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy is in this House, we have an opportunity to approve the statute as on previous occasions, but by correcting this nonsense, this democratic deficit. And to correct that, I can assure you that there are proposals that my group is of course willing to accept by giving up its own. I believe that there are no groups in the House who would be willing to do this and I am asking you and your party to help us end this issue temporarily. This Member who speaks to him belongs to a Canarian party and is perfectly clear that the electoral law of course has to be drawn up in the Canary Islands. We shall see whether the present committee is able to resolve this; the previous ones have not been and do not give me time to explain the reasons now. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u78	I have to admit, Mr Quevedo, that you have given me a very convincing argument: if we are the second and we have twelve Members and the third one is eighteen, you will logically understand that this gives me a certain surprise. [[Laughter]] Having said that, we now have here the autonomous status of the Canary Islands that is being discussed, but we have something that is very important, which is a study committee in the Parliament of the Canary Islands. I think it is sensible and reasonable that this matter should be resolved by the Parliament of the Canary Islands; it cannot be resolved by the President of the Government, who has a vote here. I have other obligations and other problems. I therefore encourage all of you to take a decision on this matter in the Parliament of the Canary Islands, to do so quickly and to agree. What does not seem sensible or reasonable is that I have to say now what the electoral law of the Canary Islands has to be like. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u79	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON PERE JOAN PONS SAMPIETRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHY HAS THE GOVERNMENT VOTED THE AMENDMENT OF THE SPECIAL BALEAR REGIME? [[File number 180/000171]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u80	Question to the Minister for Development of Mr Pere Joan Pons Sampietro of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, your party, the People's Party, promised the citizens of the Balearic Islands an improvement in inter-island transport in the midst of the electoral campaign. We have just learned this week that your Government has vetoed, as you say in your Friday document, the initiative to establish a flat rate of 30 euros for flights between Ibiza, Minorca and Majorca. It has guillotined a proposal from all the political groups in the Balearic Chamber and has gone against dozens and dozens of collectives, in addition to going against mobility and social cohesion. On the other hand, the President of the Government gave support to this initiative at a meeting with the President of the Balearic Islands and also gave her support to the then Minister of Development and now President of the Congress. Can you explain, not to me, not to the Socialist Group, but to the citizens of the Balearic Islands, what is the change of opinion and why you have vetoed the flat rate of EUR 30 for the citizens of the Balearic Islands? Thank you. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u82	Quiet, please! Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Pons, the amendment of the special regime for the Balearic Islands as provided for in the proposal for a law as regards the flat rate for flights is, and you know it, a major economic increase which is not covered by the current extended budgets and which therefore prevents its processing in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Pons.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u85	Minister, please, why do you call it spending when it is actually a matter of pure lack of political will? I am sorry, but I must accuse your Government of opposing the citizens of the Balearic Islands, our unanimity and our dignity. I would ask you to tell the citizens of the Balearic Islands whether you want to guarantee our mobility or whether you want to set up walls. I accuse you, Minister, of blocking a unanimous agreement of the Balearic Parliament, which, by the way, was supported by your own party. Explain it to me, please. I accuse you of going against sixty-seven social and economic entities in the Balearic Islands that ask you to change the special regime in the Balearic Islands, a tax regime that they also, by the way, ask for in the Canary Islands. I accuse you of marginalizing Baleares' productive fabric, condemning us to being less productive and less competitive. Is that the way to vertebrate Spain, what Mr. Rajoy says so much? Is that the way? I would ask you also to respect the demands made at the last Conference of Presidents in January, because, I also say, with your fellow citizens back home, you vetoed that initiative last week. [[Mr. Roldán Monés makes negative signs]] You don't have to do this to me, we'll see the minutes next week. And I also accuse Mr Rajoy of lying in an election campaign because they promised a special regime, they promised a flat rate, and here we are. What happens is that reality is the worst enemy of the People's Party, the difference between what they do and what they say. I ask you, please, to rectify and to explain to the citizens that they are going to change their minds. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u86	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u87	Thank you, President. Mr Pons, first of all I must say that the vetoes are nothing new to you either, since they were used on almost a hundred occasions in the IX Legislature. In any case, Mr Pons, I would like to say that if you talk about agreements, I can assure you that we have fulfilled 100 percent of the commitments and agreements with the Balearic Government. We started with those we already had, and that is why in 2016 we contributed 132 million euros for transport subsidies, and we continue with those we agreed at the beginning of this legislature. On 3 January I met personally with the President of the Balearic Government in Palma de Mallorca and concluded an agreement that we made public regarding the flat rate, in three ways. One, that we were going to study and analyse the proposal that came from the government to shoot. Two, which we were going to refer to the European Commission, in particular the Directorate-General for Competition, to assess its viability. And three, that, if it were favorable, we would work together for the implementation of the flat rate. And that's what we've done. The Directorate-General for Civil Aviation received the proposal from the Balearic Government, as we had agreed. In the months of January and February we have been discussing this proposal together with the technicians of the Balearic Government; in fact, this dialogue has concluded on the need to improve the initial proposal. And right now the Ministry of Development is waiting to receive the improved proposal, according to the conversations held. In fact, there is today a meeting of the Secretary of State with the advisor of the Balearic Government. Finally, when it is justified, we will send it to the Commission to seek its position, as we have publicly stated. In conclusion, we continue to work intensively on the implementation of those agreements; we will respect them all absolutely and the word given. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT PROVISION IS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY FOR THE COMPLIANCE IN THE FIELD OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE MANDATES OF THIS CAMERA ADDRESSED TO ENSURE THE REAL AND EFFECTIVE EQUALITY BETWEEN WOMEN And men? [[File number 180/000172]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u89	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. First of all, I would like to ask the honourable Member, Mrs Guinart Moreno, of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u90	Madam Minister, what are your plans for fulfilling the mandates of this House aimed at achieving real and effective equality between women and men?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u91	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, the Government is working with all parliamentary groups and also within the framework of the social dialogue for opportunities and equality between men and women in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Guinart.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u94	Madam Minister, we already know that you believe you are the champion of good results, but reality denies it. Nor is it true that this March 8th was the March 8th in the history in which there are more women working, as the president said a week ago. By the end of 2016, there were 8.43 million occupied women, 200,000 fewer than eight years ago. And it's EPA data. Women are the first to be harmed by their labour reform and cuts. That's why they left massively a week ago on the streets across the country. This House adopted, at the initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, a proposal on conciliation and co-responsibility and another on labour measures to combat wage inequality. We are waiting for the fulfilment of Congress's mandates and for the Government to bring a law on cross-cutting pay equality to this House. You voted in favour of our proposal, because do so now and do not veto what this House approves. You don't do anything. They promise and do nothing. It is time for them to do something, because we are not going to have conciliation or equal pay by seeing them pass. We're already pretty bad. With you the wage gap has increased and the female employment lost during the crisis is not recovering; the one created is part-time and also precarious. You don't create a job; you break it and share it, but don't believe it. And the worst is not that they do nothing, the worst is that they go against it, they legislate against women's interests and rights. For example, 163,000 family caregivers have been left without a decent pension under the Unit Act. The labour reform proliferates part-time contracts, which also hide full unpaid hours, and three out of four of these contracts are signed by women. Correct that, do it, push a law of equal pay, push education from zero to three years and revitalize the Unit Law. Minister, regain the spirit and content of the Equality Act, only then will we begin to be on the road to real and effective equality between women and men. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u95	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. I humbly tell you that it is good to come here and ask questions to the government with real data. The reality tells us that in the first phase of the crisis the socialist government, with its policies, sent 1,400,000 women to unemployment; the rate of female unemployment in Spain doubled, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know what has happened since the recovery with a People's Party government? It's data, look at it. We've recovered all the female employment destroyed by the crisis, everything. I repeat it and I say it again, look at it well, on 8 March 2017 it was on 8 March that there have been more women working in the history of the Spanish economy, 8,220,000 women; I repeat, it has been on 8 March with more women working in Spain. Much remains to be done, but, look, it is not the same as with you, Socialist Government, the 1.5-point women's pay gap, which, since 2012, with the People's Party government, has narrowed the 4-point wage gap; it is Eurostat's data. We have much to do, but women in Spain can proudly say that since the crisis two out of three new entrepreneurs are women in our country, thanks to the opportunities we have given them among all. You tell me about the pensions. Do you know where the pension gap was in Spain in 2011 with the last socialist government? 33 %. Do you know how she is today? By 22%, that is to say, the pension gap in Spain has dropped 11 points in a legislature. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because for the first time in our country women receive a pension supplement of up to 15% more thanks to the implementation of the maternity supplement, which takes into account that there are women workers who have given everything because they have brought children to society. Today 180,000 women benefit from this pension supplement that gives them equality with men who had never given them Spanish economic history. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DAVID SERRATED PARENT, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT GUARANTEES FOR THE RIGHTS OF WORKERS OFFER THE MINISTRY OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY IN THEIR SERVICE CONTRACTING POLICY? [[File number 180/000173]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u97	Question, also addressed to the Minister for Employment, Mr David Serrada Pariente, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u98	Madam Minister, I wish I had the same impetus to combat the past as to combat the present that surrounds us and the precarious work that millions of Spaniards are suffering in our country. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, I will give you some bad news, with this question you will not be able to look to the past. Mrs Báñez, your job reform has brought precariousness and low wages. A good example is the companies that subcontract the services of the Administration, in particular those of its ministry. What guarantees for workers' rights do their ministry offer in the policy of contracting for services?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u99	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u100	Your Honor, we offer what we have to offer, the law, the Public Sector Contracts Act and all labour legislation, which is the one that allows recruitment, not in the Ministry of Employment but in the entire public administration, as you on the other hand should know.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Serrada.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u102	Mrs Báñez, what I know and what millions of workers know is that that law that you passed on your own and risk brings nothing but poverty and is generating a new figure in our country, which is that of poor workers. But I'm going to give you a dice, Minister. You sure know two companies - or should know them -, Integral Canaria Security and Marsegur. I tell you that you should know them because they provide security services in your ministry and they are two companies to which you award millions of euros year after year. Minister, if you don't know them, you should know them because they are very close to a former colleague of yours, I think you were sitting next to him, Mr Soria; if you don't know them, you should do it because these companies accumulate thousands of workers' complaints about issues affecting their job dignity and not being able to reach the end of the month with the wages they receive. These companies are contracted by their ministry to control and monitor Labour Inspectorate and Social Security units. Do not tell me that this has no delay, Minister, that there are companies that are being investigated by your Administration and that your Administration hires them in turn to monitor the offices of these institutions. I'm going to give you a fundamental figure. What you have done has been to settle job insecurity not only in companies, but also in the Government itself, at the heart of the Government, which must ensure the interests of the workers, which is the Ministry of Employment. What you have done, Minister, has been to try to veto from the very beginning a reform which the Socialist Party wanted to carry out. He hasn't made the move, and I'm warning you, he's not going to make it, because we're going to take this legislative reform to the last consequences. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u103	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Member, the Administration does what it does is to enforce and enforce the law, the Public Sector Contracts Act and the current labour regulations, as you can imagine. Do you know what happens with recruitment to the Ministry of Employment and any public administration? It is recruited after a recruitment board that is made up of highly qualified staff members who decide on criteria of transparency and full independence. What have we done in the Ministry of Employment? Apart from that, we have tried to put quality clauses in the specifications of public contracts in employment. You know for what? To ensure the proper functioning of such recruitment and the rights of workers. This has enabled us, for example, in this legislature - I am talking about the present - to terminate some service contracts with companies because they did not comply regularly with workers. That is a novelty of this legislature that did not exist in the past. You tell me about a specific company. Why does it bother you that the Ministry of Employment hires you in a public and transparent competition and does not criticize the Madrid City Council, in which the Socialist Party supports the government of Podemos? To set an example. They are therefore hired because they win public competitions. You know what we do? Watch; we have watched from the Ministry of Employment and we will continue to do so. We will continue to incorporate quality clauses into all public procurement documents in the future. And as a guarantor of everything, there is always the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, which also provides timely care for workers, both within and outside the Ministry of Employment and Social Security. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u105	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs YOLANDA DÍAZ PEREZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT THE COUNTRY WITH THE MOST END OF EUROPE DOES NOT EXIST 10,222 MILLIONS OF EUROS IN PERFORMANCE? [[File number 180/000162]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u106	Question by Mrs Yolanda Díaz Pérez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, also to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u107	Minister, what do you think the European Union's most unemployed government deserves to leave unexecuted EUR 10,222 million, as certified by the General Intervention of the State, in the past years 2014 and 2016?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u108	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, the drop in unemployment expenditure is happening because I do not know if you know that since 2014, thanks to everyone, to the collective effort of Spanish society, there are two million fewer unemployed in our country.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u111	Minister, imagine a family whose children are cold and hungry. I don't know if you know them, but one in five in our country lives below the poverty line. Imagine that we later knew that the father or mother had small savings to take away their children's hardships and yet they did not want to use those funds. It is important to know that in our country, with more than 10 billion euros to meet the needs of the unemployed and the unemployed, you do not want to do so. What would we call that father or that mother? Would we say of them that they are savers or would we simply say that they are heartless? Would we say they're ineffective or would we just say they're cruel? Madam Minister, with these more than EUR 10 billion we could provide social protection to more than two million unemployed people. In this country, citizens know that there are scoundrels who plunder the institutions and then cut them off. We have already learned that the crisis is a huge scam. What we didn't know was that his Government, the People's Party Government, left the unemployed behind when they needed it the most. Moreover, it robs the unemployed, as the Constitutional Court has just said, pointing out that these funds are final and cannot be used for other things. Minister, this is not a casual event, it is not a casual budget failure; it is your form of government, it is the form of government based on cutting unemployment so as to meet austerity, so as to meet the public deficit. That is so, to cut public spending - I insist - at the expense of the unemployed and unemployed in this country. Minister, austerity kills, but especially when we talk about people who don't have to feed their children. Stops and stops in this country have rights. Madam Minister, you are at the service of the Merkel, you are genuine mercenaries of the Merkel, what concerns you is the public deficit and not our people who are suffering the consequences of the policies of the People's Party. Do you know what a normal person, a normal minister in a normal country would do? After this data, I'd resign...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u112	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u113	Madam Member, a Spanish woman, whether she is a minister or not, would be very proud to say this morning that we have a country that devotes 63% of the budget, 63 out of every 100 euros of the budget, to social spending in Spain in the average of the last few years. Your Honor, I would also say proudly of Spanish and country, because it is society that makes it possible year after year, that in our country 14 million public benefits are paid every month and we are working in Spain 18 million Spaniards. That's what we do as a commitment to society. And do you know what we have spent in this legislature, what we have invested - I will say better - in this legislature in unemployment benefits and benefits? More than 125 billion euros. And you know the result you've had? That 1,600,000 people in recent years have been able to enter the labour market. I am well aware that much remains to be done, but this government has spent more than EUR 25 billion annually on unemployment benefits and subsidies. We have renewed the Plan Prepared for the long-term unemployed and made it fixed, which has given coverage to more than 700,000 people. In the social dialogue we have launched an activation plan for employment, to facilitate the rapid transition of long-term unemployed workers with family burdens, which is giving more than 220,000 opportunities to many Spaniards. And in last year's budget and this one there is an extraordinary orientation plan, also for people who take more time in unemployment, of 500 million euros until 2018, because we don't want anyone to get out of the recovery. Thinking of the most vulnerable, not only the unemployed but also the pensioners, this government made the decision not to freeze pensions and to raise them every year, so that every year, moderately raising pensions, from 2012 to 2016, the pensioners have gained purchasing power. We're about to keep counting, Your Honor... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u114	Thank you very much. - THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO ROLDÁN MONÉS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT MEASURES DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO IMPLEMENT TO COMBAT THE WORK PRECARIDATION OF YOUNG PEOPLE? [[File number 180/00164]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u115	He also asked the Minister of the Member of Parliament, Mr Antonio Roldán Monés, of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u116	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, contrary to what has happened to some other members of your Government and some other areas such as democratic regeneration or the fight against corruption, it is true that there has been some progress in your areas of control and in your ministry, as has been the law of self-government - which we have been able to pass as citizens' demand, despite some obstacles that have tried to put us - or, for example, paternity permits, where we have been able to double the permits since the first January of this year. Some of us worry because things are being done, and less because of the noise. I wanted to ask you now why it is probably Spain's main problem, which is youth insecurity. We have eight years of crisis and we still have almost one out of every two young Spaniards in a precarious situation. Does the Government intend to take steps to change the situation, to provide opportunities for the precarious in this country?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u117	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, you know that young people are our future, but in order for them to have a future, we also have to work for your present. We have done this since the beginning of last parliamentary term by putting in place instruments, such as the entrepreneurship and youth employment strategy, which are 100 measures in favour of young people's opportunities, and we have also given the European battle through the youth guarantee. And we continue to make decisions in the social dialogue and in the parliamentary dialogue for young people. You know very well that in the parliamentary dialogue and with the autonomous communities, for example, one of the first royal decrees that was passed in this House was an impetus for the youth guarantee. In our pact with his party, signed in August, we committed ourselves to 150 proposals to promote employment, also among young people. We are working on measures to launch, together with the rest of the parliamentary groups, I insist, within the framework of the social dialogue, to encourage this transition of young people to employment, to improve their training and to have a more dignified wage in our country every day. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u120	Minister, the data is really worrying, as you know very well. Of the young people who are lucky enough to have a job, 70% have a temporary job, and of those only one in ten succeeds in moving from temporary to indefinite employment. In terms of public policy, that is, in my opinion, a real failure. In addition, we have a youth guarantee that has been unused for years in our country because we have not found ideas to give it content. It would cost us zero in the budget to implement, for example, as we have been talking to your ministry for several weeks, a salary supplement aimed at young people of around 400 euros, to offer opportunities to all young people who have been left behind in this crisis. We are the third country in the entire OECD in precariousness and the second country in youth unemployment. Really, let's make an effort by fulfilling the agreement. It is true that you have implemented point 42 of the agreement to broaden the criteria of the youth guarantee. I propose that we continue to move forward - I am convinced that you too are very concerned about the situation - in order to close that salary supplement that would change the lives of thousands and thousands of Spanish and Spanish who are suffering. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u121	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u122	Thank you very much. Mr President, let me tell you something obvious, quality in employment begins with a job. We are evolving in the right direction thanks to the collective effort of Spanish society because, for the first time, a recovery in our country is beginning to create employment among young people from the first moment, the unemployment rate has fallen by 14 points since the recovery and employment among young people is rising twice as high as the overall rate. But it is true that much remains to be done. I have spoken to him about measures that we have put in place with the consensus of all, because everyone, civil society, social actors, autonomous communities and parliamentary groups, is in the strategy of entrepreneurship and youth employment and in the youth guarantee. As a result, 1,800,000 young people have found an opportunity for guidance, training or employment to return opportunities to them as soon as possible. It is also true that the Citizens' Economic Team and the Ministry of Employment have been working for weeks to implement what would be complementary assistance under a contract of employment and with training skills, to promote the return of young people to the labour market, their training and higher wages, which young people in our country also want. We are waiting, within the framework of the Youth Guarantee, for the European Commission to approve it as an eligible expenditure, so that it can be implemented as soon as possible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u123	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ALBERTO MONTERO SOLER, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNISHLY POSSIBLE IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHAT MEASURES DO THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO ADOPTE THE LAST PREVICES OF THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION ON THE GROWTH OF GDP, TAX INCOME AND PUBLIC DEFICIT OBJECTIVES? [[File number 180/000166]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u124	Question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness, by Mr Alberto Montero Soler, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u125	Thank you very much, President. Minister, what measures does the Government intend to implement in the light of the European Commission's latest forecast of non-compliance with the public deficit?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u126	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Montero, as you know, in the winter forecast the European Commission has told us that we have grown to 3.2%, almost twice as much as our partners are growing, that we have done with a balanced contribution of both domestic and external demand, with a current account surplus of around 2%, with a very intense job creation and, therefore, with a correction of all the imbalances in the Spanish economy. As the President of the Government has just pointed out, in relation to the public deficit we will strictly comply with our commitment to a deficit of 4.6%. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Montero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u129	Minister, you must have read the report but you have not come to the end. The forecast report also indicates that the growth of the Spanish economy is slowing down, that this will have an impact on the deficit and that it recommends the application of additional cuts. In addition, the report recognizes something - which the International Monetary Fund in a report that it took out last week quantifies - and it is that what has happened in this country is that the tail winds, which you denied and which have become a veritable windbreaker, contributed around 1.5 points of growth of the gross domestic product and that those tail winds are going to become calm girl. He also says that the fiscal expansion that took place in 2015 with electoral reasons has slowed down as a result of the return to austerity, that austerity does not work and that they also contributed half a point of growth to GDP at the time, and he also says that growth prospects are going to translate into lower incomes. This, together with yesterday's OECD report, which was so often taken out in the morning, whose message is that the economic growth that is taking place is not inclusive and is leaving out those people who have suffered the most from the impact of the crisis. Together with all that, the message is that the gap between its deficit forecasts and those of the Commission for this year is 4 tenths, that is to say almost 4 billion, and for the year to come 7 tenths, that is to say almost 7 billion, which necessarily translates into an increase in revenue of 11 billion or a cut in expenditure of 11 billion. Minister, it is a real barbarity to sacrifice the whole of economic policy to fiscal consolidation at a time when the rate of growth of the economy is falling and job creation is slowing down. Austerity, and you know it well, doesn't work. We want to know precisely whether it can be, whether they intend to increase taxes or cut spending so that the population most at risk of social exclusion is even worse off. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u130	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Montero, perhaps we have read a different report. The European Commission does not call for any additional measures. We have met 4.6% of the public deficit target last year, we are going to meet 3.1%, which according to the Commission's projection is 3.3%, but we do not ask for any additional measures. He says that the joint structural effort of the deficit in 2016 and 2017 is more than enough to meet the premises of Spain's stability programme and our Stability and Growth Pact. On the other hand, it is also important to bear in mind, Your Honor, that there is a small difference between the growth projection of the Government and the European Commission. The Government points out that it is going to be 2.5% and the Commission is going to be 2.3%, but what has happened seventeen times in the last four years is that the European Commission has revised the growth of the Spanish economy upwards; seventeen times, ladies and gentlemen, has not been quite a few. And the same is going to happen with the International Monetary Fund and the same thing happened yesterday with the OECD. The OECD also increased from 2.3 % to 2.5 %. Your Honor, you're talking about tail winds. The tail winds blow for all, and we have grown twice as much as the countries in our economic environment. And right now, as you know perfectly well, and regardless of whether there are still many problems, the evolution of the Spanish economy is the best of the major economies in the euro area, and also of the developed countries. And you will see how in the coming days all economic projections point to higher growth during 2017. And I am convinced that there will not be seventeen but many times more in which the European Commission will review us again upwards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u132	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN CAPDEVILA I STEVE, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHAT POLICIES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT TO PROMOTE THE DEVELOPMENT OF SMEs? [[File number 180/000167]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u133	He also asked the Minister, Mr Joan Capdevila i Esteve, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u134	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, I am going to invoke another report, and I hope that we have both read it. It is IESE's prestigious B-4 report, published recently, that has shown that SMEs have paid, by contrast, the duck of the crisis. Minister, what measures does the Spanish Government envisage to promote the development of SMEs?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u135	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you're absolutely right. About 100 per cent, 99.88% of the Spanish business sector is small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ almost 10 million people and contribute slightly more than 60 per cent of GDP. Just as they were the great ones affected during the crisis, they must also be the great protagonists of economic recovery. However, we have a problem, which is that of the scale of our companies, of our SMEs. This creates important difficulties for them to export, to internationalize, to access finance, to innovation and, in addition, also creates problems from the point of view of governance and even of bank financing, excessive dependence on bank financing. That is why it is essential to increase the scale of our companies and to make them more competitive. The Government is currently analysing the main administrative obstacles that prevent companies and SMEs from growing; and, once we know the conclusions, we will design an action plan with measures in different areas not only of an economic nature, but to encourage and facilitate the growth of SMEs. These include the deepening of the Market Unity Guarantee Act or the search for new financing solutions. As soon as we have this analysis, I pledge to bring it to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and to share it with all the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Capdevilla.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. I am pleased to agree on the diagnosis and partly on the treatment, but I regret to say that while you are trying to be a pyme-friendly, there are a lot of fingers raised with objections in the Ministry of Energy, which allows SMEs to have one of the most expensive energies in Europe affecting competitiveness, preventing partial solutions such as closed networks in industrial zones, or seasonal power contracts; in the Ministry of Development, which is damaging the competitiveness of the main industrial economic axis of the State, which is the Mediterranean corridor, with its radial conception of communications. But, Minister, the main enemy, the main objector finger, you have it in Mr Montoro, who does not stop hindering SMEs' access to public procurement, while the large lots benefit large companies, allowing these large lots that the large companies earn to be subcontracted at operating prices to SMEs, which are the ones that actually do the works or services, but without participating proportionally in the profits, accepting the grave scourge of the lateness of these large companies with subcontracted SMEs, which are the ones that end up financing the work and taking the risks; and, above all, as a productive economy, bearing greater tax burden than speculative companies. Minister, the competitiveness of SMEs is abducted by the interests of oligopolies and large companies. His ministry is, unfortunately, kidnapped by these interests, and this is the great problem and the great culprit of the blinds that close. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u139	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u140	I'm sorry, Mr. Capdevilla, but I don't share this opinion with you. Mr Montoro has been one of the great supporters of SMEs in this country, through, for example, the financing of the FLA, which has allowed many autonomous communities and municipalities to pay a great many SMEs. From there, I can tell you that the Entrepreneurs Support Act, the Business Financing Promotion Act and the Market Unity Act are measures that the Government has taken to promote the growth of SMEs. Is there room for improvement? Absolutely. I pledge to bring the analysis that we are doing on the scale of companies in Spain and to propose a battery of measures to discuss with all groups on how to deal with one of the main remorse that we currently have for the competitiveness, productivity and internationalization of the Spanish economy, as pointed out by the International Monetary Fund in its last report. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u141	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. ISABEL RODRIGUEZ GARCIA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT ACTIONS ARE TO BE TAKEN DOES THE GOVERNMENT GO SO THAT THE COURTS CAN EFFECTIVELY pursue CORRUPTION? [[File number 180/000169]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u142	Questions now to the Minister of Justice. Question by Mrs Isabel Rodríguez García of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u143	Thank you, President. Minister, my question is: what action do you intend to take so that justice can pursue and work in the fight against corruption?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u144	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u145	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I believe that the first thing that needs to be done is to continue to equip justice, personal and material means, and better laws so that they can do their job well; to reform laws so that the response and punishment of those who fail to comply with the rules, and in particular with regard to corruption, receive all the revulsion and rejection of society as a whole, and also, and not least, to continue to work to consolidate and recognize in our culture and our judicial system the presumption of innocence. With all that - more personal means, more material means, better laws, strengthening the presumption of innocence - we will certainly all be helping to fight corruption. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u147	It would be fine if your words corresponded to your deeds, minister, but you solemnly declared, as you characterize it, that political responsibility for corruption is settled in the ballot box. You know we don't share it, but also this assertion starts by obviating something very important, and it's that you don't play clean; you go doped up to the polls. Counts B, banners, cars, megaphony, organizing rallies; that's how they get to the elections, and I'm not referring to prehistory. We have recent news of 2008 rallies, where the president of the government was a candidate for the presidency; of 2007, and today there is some information regarding the elections in Valencia that they say they know about in their party. And it's just that that retaliatory thing that you bring us here about what we should do to fight corruption would be desirable, but it's not what you do. The investigation of the Gürtel case began eight years ago; the investigation of the Punica case, three years ago. With your actions, with the limitation of the time of instruction that you introduced and without the provision of sufficient means, we would never have been able to know what we now - albeit late - know. I ask you to act as you say, to do what you just told me so that we don't have to be surprised again eight years later and to know things like that you were attenuated by the mariachi rallies at the rate of cute Cielito with public money from the Madriders. [[Applauds]] Yeah, that happened just eight years ago in his party. I ask you to remove the defence lawyer's robe from the People's Party and get to work as a minister of justice. You cannot change what has already happened in your party, but you can, through your work as Minister of Justice, avoid continuing to lose confidence in administrations and thus degrading democracy. I ask you, I insist, to hang your robe and act as a minister. He's just been left alone by his comrades, I hope he doesn't stand alone in that defense of the People's Party's lawyer and his corrupts. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u148	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u149	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I very much agree with what you say: facts and not just words. That is what we should all be doing, because a reform of the funding system for political parties was adopted in this House and you did not support it. A transparency law was passed and you did not support it. A law amending the Criminal Code was passed to increase the penalties for the corrupt and you did not support it. The Criminal Prosecution Act was amended to speed up criminal cases and you did not support it. Therefore, it is true, facts: all the reforms that we adopt in the X Legislature, that are being implemented and that are making justice work better every day. It is true that there are some cases that take eight years, those that take place in the High Court of Justice of Valencia, in the National Court, in the High Court of Justice or in the Courts of Instruction of Andalusia, right, Your Honor? But I'm not going to tell you that you more or those cases are worse. I don't know what the mariachis played or what others spent money on training the unemployed in Andalusia. [[Applauds]] However, we will continue to work; we will authorize reinforcement measures, which are called for by the National Court, the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, for example, and more. Last Friday we approved sixteen places of magistrates to give effect in Spain to the second criminal court, which has been pending for quite a long time. I hope that we will approve the General Budgets of the State and that we will be able to offer public employment to consolidate the employment of temporary staff, to continue to convene places of judges and prosecutors, because without budget law, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have a very bad time. We will also bring to this House the regulation of lobbies, the regulation of those who denounce the practices of corruption. Your Honor, facts, and I hope you're there to support them. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN MIRIAM ALCONCHEL GONZAGA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WILL YOU RENEW THE GOVERNMENT ON THE CHALLENGE LIMIT FOR CANDIDATES TO THE EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS? [[File number 180/000170]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u150	He also asked the Minister, Mrs Miriam Alconchel Gonzaga, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u151	Minister, will the government give up the age limit for candidates for the European Court of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u152	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u153	Thank you, President. Your Honor, for the time being, what the government has done is to approve an agreement by the Council of Ministers to give transparency and publicity to the procedure for choosing the tern we must send to the European Court of Human Rights. We therefore believe that the bases that have been approved are reasonable and give transparency and objectivity to the procedure; therefore, we are not going to give up the bases that we have published.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alconchel.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u155	Minister, the truth is that you have again contaminated a procedure, this time in relation to the candidatures to the European Court of Human Rights. He managed to get the European Parliamentary Assembly to give him a six-month extension to present that tern of candidates. Mr Catalá, I ask you, my group asks you: Were you making time for someone? The fact is that the Council of Ministers, to which it refers, has for the first time imposed a requirement for being a candidate, which is not more than sixty-one years old, but the Council of Europe itself establishes seventy years as the maximum age. Do not come to me with the excuse - I imagine it will - that it is to prevent the elected person from ending his or her term of office because the replacement of any member of any body is something that is absolutely resolved. What is true is that they are leaving out numerous lawyers of exceptional and recognized trajectory. And I ask you, Mr Catalá: Is this discrimination on grounds of age to facilitate any candidacy? Because of women's difficulties in accessing senior judicial and academic bodies, the majority of women jurists who could be candidates for all the requirements will not meet the age requirement; therefore, it is leaving out a lot of women jurists, despite the fact that the Council of Europe recommends that there be female candidatures to alleviate the deficit of women in the European Court. Mr Catalá, is this discrimination based on gender to eliminate any candidacy? It is all so obvious that the associations of judges and jurists have resorted to that government agreement which you speak of because it violates fundamental rights, because it creates discrimination on grounds of age and gender, and the Supreme Court has suspended it cautiously. All these manoeuvres have a clear objective: to exclude some candidatures and to facilitate others. We knew he was going to bring manual excuses to this House. He's losing credibility for minutes. Stop manoeuvring the institutions, the procedures, that every time you touch something it spoils you. Mr. Catalá, admit it, you've been caught again in fraganti. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u156	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u157	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the truth is that I recognize a certain surprise from you when you tell me that what we have done is to contaminate a procedure. Setting a basis for calling, making it transparent, setting requirements, publishing it in the State Official Gazette, is it contaminating a procedure? What procedure was there when the Socialist Party ruled to appoint the Secretary of State for Justice as judge of the European Court of Human Rights? What procedure was more than purely digital, that of appointing the person they considered appropriate, without any call, without any unique merit? He was a lawyer of recognized prestige, but there was no competition neither you were concerned about gender policy nor age or anything like that. Your Honor, it is quite obvious that if the maximum retirement age is seventy years the person who is finally appointed can fulfil his or her term of office. That is what the European Commission does in all the posts it calls for; since the maximum retirement age is sixty-five years, it calls for no more than sixty years to be allowed to hold posts. The post of Administrative Director of Eurojust is now being convened and a request is made to be no more than sixty years old in order to be able to fulfil the five years for which the candidate is appointed. It seems to me that it is quite reasonable for a person who is going to hold such a prominent position as that of a judge in the European Court of Human Rights to be able to fulfil his mandate and, therefore, having a mandatory maximum retirement age, it is normal for the person who is appointed to fulfil those characteristics. I recognize you, Your Honor, my second element of surprise: gender. I really didn't catch him. What does age have to do with gender, discrimination against women? How many female judges have you appointed to the European Court of Human Rights or ad hoc judges? None. Should we set a age limit of sixty-one years so that the maximum age can be reached harms the woman? If women have later joined the judiciary for sociological reasons, the younger the more women there will be. This is the sociological structure of the judiciary. Really, Your Honor, I just didn't understand your two motives. However, whatever the Supreme Court says, of course we will, as always. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE DON JAUME MIYA MATAS, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK ABOUT THE WARNING MADE BY THE VENECIA COMMISSION OF THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE ON THE FAILURE OF NUSTRALITY OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL TRIBUNAL, AFTER THE CHANGES IN OCTOBER 2015? [[File number 180/000174]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u158	Question by Mr Jaume Moya Matas, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u159	Thank you, President. Minister, we would like to know what action your Government intends to take in the light of the warnings expressed by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe regarding the serious attack on the neutrality of the Constitutional Court perpetrated by the absolute majority of the People's Party government in the X Legislature, coinciding with the Catalan autonomous elections.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u160	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u161	Thank you, President. I imagine that you refer, Your Honor, to the opinion drawn up by the Venice Commission on Friday or Saturday, 13 March, because when I saw the question that you were asking - this one that has changed - I tried to find this serious attack on the lack of neutrality of the Constitutional Court, but I can't find it anywhere because what I read in this report is that the reform that was carried out by organic law adopted by this Parliament in 2015 is endorsed. He said that it was very convenient and very reasonable to have mechanisms to implement the rulings of the Constitutional Court, said that the option adopted in Spain was an absolutely valid option and found equivalent models in Austria and Germany. All this is what that opinion says, so we do not intend to take any action because what we believe the report of the Venice Commission has done is to validate the reform that was carried out in Spain in 2015. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u163	Minister, I am beginning to doubt that we are talking about the same report. Perhaps it will be because, as the report has been published in English, I would perhaps be deplanted as Mr Rajoy did a few days ago in Brussels. Specifically, take advantage of the fact that you have it in your hand and look at paragraph 71 of the report's conclusions, which states that the Constitutional Court should be a judge of laws, should be a neutral arbitrator. Read it, item 71. And all this represents a profound attack on his reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which was a very serious attack on this area of the Constitutional Court, since what he does is to throw him directly into the political arena. This of giving him the power to sanction elected officials, even removing them from office, implies another invasion of his policy, beyond even this judicial power deeply influenced by his manipulation of the prosecutor's office. And they do not have enough with this, but they even intend to align this Constitutional Court in what we already know as the Aranzadi Brigade, that brigade dressed in robes with fists that continually attack anything that can smell popular sovereignty or the right to decide from the peoples. Minister, you tell me about Germany. Please review paragraph 23, where you say that the Spanish reform is not acceptable to the German case, since in Germany the Federal Constitutional Court has the power in its case not to execute directly, but to establish which body and through which method to execute. And the references - please read point 25 - are Albania, Germany, Moldova or Ukraine. Are these the references that President Rajoy gave us this morning of progress, freedom or democracy? Or perhaps it was these countries that called them unique countries? Minister, listen to the Councils of the Venice Commission and restore the Constitutional Court to its proper role. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u164	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u165	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I read in English reasonably, but I still give you the translation we have made by the Attorney General of the State if it is more useful to you. Surely a report of 18 pages and 79 paragraphs allows this debate that we have here today. [[The Lord]] But look at what it says in point 8: The judicial decisions of the Constitutional Court are final and binding on all public bodies and individuals. Not to observe a ruling of the Constitutional Court is to ignore the Constitution and the constituent power. When any authority refuses to execute a ruling of the Constitutional Court violates the Constitution, it violates the separation of powers and cooperation between State bodies. And he also says: The measures to execute these sentences are legitimate. All this is said by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe you are validating the reform after your interviews. He was in this House, he was with the Commission of Justice, he was with the Constitutional Court, he was with the General Council of the Judiciary, he was also with the Government, we gave him our opinion and this is the report he is finally carrying out. I therefore believe that we have a Constitutional Court which does its work, which makes the judgments and the orders it has, which protects our Constitution, which protects the implementation of its resolutions. What would it be if not a court that cannot enforce its decisions by itself or by third parties? Because that's what the reform we did in 2015 says. We believe we have a good institutional system and we will continue to defend it, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u166	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT SARA CARREÑO VALERO, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM WE CAN IN COMMUNITY CAN IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES YOU THINK THAT IN OUR COUNTRY THERE IS A JUSTICE FOR RISKS AND OTHER FOR POOR? [[File number 180/000165]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u167	Question by Mrs Sara Carreño Valero, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u168	Do you consider, Minister, that in our country there is justice for the rich and justice for the poor?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u169	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u170	Thank you, Mr. President. I should say no and sit down, but, Your Honor, a justice that resolves more than 6 million cases each year through professional and independent courts is ensuring the equality of all before the law. A justice that protects 60,000 victims of crime through victim care offices, a justice that has issued more than 23,500 restraining orders over the past year, which has allocated more than 583,000 legal aid to persons in need of free legal justice, to cite a few examples, is a justice that deals with everyone and in particular those who need it most. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u171	Congresswoman Carreño.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u172	Justice is not the same for all. The plot works for yours, protecting them from sentences and allowing impunity to take place in our country. The cases of Urdangarín and Infanta Cristina, Blesa and Rat are evidence that justice is not the same for all in Spain. They are not subject to pre-trial detention or bail, but are allowed to remain free because the privileged do not go to prison. This unequal justice begins with unfair legislation, a penal code tailored to punish the thugs and privilege the corrupt, the tax fraudsters. For those of you do the criminal law of the friend. That is why, in Spain, defrauding the Tax Agency of EUR 100 000 is not a crime, it does not entail any criminal liability; however, you have increased the convictions of minor offences in your 2015 reform. This increase in sentences coupled with the severe economic situation is causing prisons to be filled in recent years with poor people who cannot cope with the fines imposed. It is the case, for example, of people sentenced for trafficking sanctions or it is the case of keeping them, who should never be in jail, because the only thing they do is sell goods to survive. Are we going back to prison for medieval debts, Minister? Not only is criminal policy unfair; the prosecution controlled by you is acting as a lawyer when the person sitting on the bench is the infant. It paralyzes the investigations of the President of Murcia or the former President of La Rioja, both of the People's Party, of course, but that same prosecutor's office, which does not act against those who have ruined this country, pursues protesters and trade unionists. More than three hundred people are accused in our country of demonstrations and strikes, of protesting for their cuts and labour reforms, and they are now also penalizing freedom of expression. In just a week, the National Audience has judged seven people for commenting on social media. A rapper has been sentenced to more than two years in prison for a song. Do you think it's permissible in a democratic state for a person to go to jail for singing a song? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u173	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, in Spain you only go to jail if you decide it by a court, an independent court. You must be very eager for a lot of people to go to jail. We're guarantors. We believe in guarantees and we believe in law. You know that provisional detention, which is an extraordinary measure, applies only in 0.36% of the cases of persons who have a sentence at first instance and who are pending appeal. Until the final sentence is handed down, you don't go to jail, Your Honor. That's what courts do. And they also did so with the councilwoman of Madrid, dona Rita Maestre, who had a first sentence, had to pay a fine, and until it was not final and in this case she was relieved of responsibility she did not have to pay it. As well as Mr.Bódalo, who until it was not final his sentence did not go to prison. Therefore equal justice, absolutely equal for all. I am sure you will also agree that minors, women victims of gender-based violence, creators of intellectual property and women victims of human trafficking must be protected. That's what the reform of the Penal Code did, Your Honor, not to regulate robagallins or anything like that. Your Honor, in Spain no one is detained or imprisoned for protesting, for exercising the right to strike or for singing. It is quite naive the vision or its comments. Such alleged acts may involve the commission of crimes of threats, violence and coercion, because a person who commits crimes may be subjected to repression by the criminal system and may be convicted in his case by the courts. No one is convicted for exercising a right to strike or demonstration, no one is convicted of a song, but for creating and promoting some kind of crime in connection with such activities, Your Honor. It should focus rather on the commission of the crime and not on the activity that happens in such cases. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u175	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE current system of election of the superior courts of autonomic justice seem to the Government to be adequate? [[File number 180/00163]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u176	Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u177	Mr Minister, do you think it appropriate for the Government to appoint members of the higher courts of justice in the autonomous territorial areas?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u178	For the answer, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u179	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we have repeatedly said that the fact that autonomous parliaments can propose to a judge of a higher court of justice is not reasonable at this time. I don't know if it was thirty years ago when the model was set up, but not right now. We have said this repeatedly; I have said this in my appearances here, in the Senate and in the Committee on Justice. It is part of our agreement with you and we are convinced that we have to move forward. It is also true that we will need a sufficient majority to pass the reform of an organic law, but we are convinced that at present it is not necessary for autonomous parliaments to propose jurists of recognized prestige to join the civil and criminal chambers of the higher courts of justice. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u180	Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u181	I am pleased to hear this, because I believe that at this point in our democracy it is beginning to be unsustainable that the favour of a party majority in an autonomous parliament - whatever it may be, because all the autonomy has been added to this - should be the determining factor in the fact that one is part of the tern on which the General Council of the Judiciary chooses to be part of the civil or criminal chamber of any higher court of justice, especially given that those civil and criminal chambers are the ones that are going to judge the members of the assemblies and of the autonomous governments. You have indeed recalled - and I am glad that you have done so - that point 142 of our investiture agreement reflects the reform of the provision of Article 330.4 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary so that this waste of low democratic quality disappears from our legal system. In a mature democracy like ours, the time has come to say that the only criteria by which someone has to be part of a court, apart from the competition, are the scales of merit, capacity, specialty and fitness. And point, no more. What is now happening only introduces a shadow of doubt about a power of the State which, let us not forget, is the only power of the State that receives the name of power from the Constitution. There are executives, i.e. autonomous governments in Spain; there is an extremist government, a Batian government, a Catalan government and then there is a national government. There is a Galician legislative power, an Andalusian legislative power and then a national legislative power. But there is no Asturian Judicial Power and a Canarian Judicial Power; there is only one Judicial Power in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u183	Thank you, President. As I said, we have fully incorporated it into our approaches and we have taken it forward. We have just set up the subcommittee on the study and definition of the national justice strategy within the Committee on Justice, and hopefully we will be able to start working. It will be very good for us to address this issue, as so many others know that they are affecting the perception of the independence of justice. The system of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary and the appointments carried out by the Council need to be given more transparency and objectivity in order to strengthen what is already a reality. The independence of the judiciary is a reality, but perhaps its social perception is not so great, and that is why it is very good to work on it. It is also true that this instrument that autonomous parliaments could suggest jurists of recognized prestige could have made sense - like many others - in the 1980s to strengthen a single judicial power throughout the territory. Today, in my opinion, it is unnecessary, and we must therefore work in that direction. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen - I am also addressing the rest of the House - that qualified majorities are needed to reform organic laws. I therefore hope that we will be ready to promote this type of reform as soon as possible. You told us a few days ago that our agreement was up and running, and we firmly believe it. Let us make it a reality, the sooner the better, and let us show good signs in this kind of thing; just as others are more complicated, because they lead us to constitutional reform and complex scenarios, I think this is one of the issues that we can solve very soon, and show that we do what we say we want to do and that the agreements are also to be fulfilled. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-15-CD170315.u184	Thank you very much, Minister. At the end of Question Time, the meeting was suspended. It was three and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
