ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u1	The meeting was called to order. We began the session with the item on the consideration of proposals for legislation, and in particular the proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, integral to the fight against corruption and the protection of whistleblowers. Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u2	Thank you, President. Thanks also to the citizens who are accompanying us here today in the rostrum, entities that have wanted to collaborate with this parliamentary initiative. Thank you to all of them for being here and to the citizens who are following us. The second problem of the Spaniards, despite the problems we have with health, despite the problems in our education, despite the problems in the economy, despite so many problems that accompany us on a daily basis, remains in 2017, according to the CIS, corruption. When a problem remains in time and the Spaniards tell us to this House and politicians in general that corruption remains the second most important problem, what this Citizens Parliamentary Group believes is that we must act conscientiously, in an integral and cross-cutting way, and that we must do so now, that there is no time to lose, that we have been regretting cases of corruption for too many years, what is happening in public life, but there is still much to do. That is why today we bring here, at last, this comprehensive anti-corruption law, a law that Citizens did not present yesterday or last week, but on September 15, 2016, and that we have also been fighting since the previous failed legislature. So after a few months, the comprehensive anti-corruption law finally comes to this House. It is the second law that presents Citizens. The first was the law on urgent measures for the self-employed. Employment, the first priority of the Spanish. The second priority is the fight against corruption. That is why it is an honour today to defend this law here on behalf of the thirty-two citizens' deputies. [[Applauds]] As I told you, it is not another law, it is not a law that deals with a specific issue, it is an integral, transversal, omnibus law, as is legally known, because it seeks to address several of the weak points where corruption always appears. The first of these points has never been addressed in this House as a law, it is the first time in the history of Spain that a law will be processed not to protect the corrupt, but to protect those who denounce the corrupt. [[Applauds]] Yes, don't miss the popular stand, it's the first time a law has been brought here to protect whistleblowers, those who suffer harassment and destruction of some political parties in mayors, especially in local life, but also in autonomous life. That is why it is an honor to bring a law to protect heroes and not villains, a law to protect public officials who play the type literally, as some of them have told us and we have seen in some media, and not to protect the corrupt who want to get out of the way of secretaries, intervenors or officials who do their work. Well, today is good news for the good, for those who denounce corruption, for those who watch over our public money, for those who make it difficult for the corrupt politician on duty or prevent him from putting his hands in our wallet. Today, too, we must pay tribute to this law, because from now on, not just with pats on the back but with a law, they will be protected so that they can do their job well. This is the first fundamental point of this law, protecting whistleblowers and not protecting, endorsing and patting corrupt politicians on the back. The second point of this relevant law that I believe should be brought to this House is the suppression of pardons for corruption. In our electoral programme, we talk about suppressing pardons for political corruption, for gender-based violence, pardons for terrorists and those who ultimately have to be motivated. What brings Citizens here today? Firstly, the suppression of pardons for political corruption. You know that the Law of Pardons is of the nineteenth century. We are talking about obsolete legislation, but it is also a regulation that has been changed even worse, because a reform has been made that precisely what it does is that pardons do not have to be motivated in this House; in short, that the Government can also protect those who have finally been convicted. It happens to some corrupt people like the water cycle. First they are accused, then they are prosecuted, then they are tried, then they are convicted and finally pardoned. [[Applauds]] And we don't want there to be any water cycle. We believe and trust our judges, we believe and we trust our prosecutors, we believe and we trust those good men who do their job. It seems to us that if a judge, with procedural guarantees in the twenty-first century, condemns someone after being able to go to second instance, after going through a judicial process, a Government is no one to be able to lift that sentence. So today we come here to suppress what is called pardon, grace; some do not do us any grace and the only thing we want in the end is for whoever makes it to pay it and for whoever is condemned to pay his sentence. [[Applauds]] I already know that some - after many years of democracy, blow and blow - very recently have woken up and are going to change what has not changed in forty years. All right, I hope you support this initiative, but the reality is quite different, the Spaniards have memories. [[Show a document]] The government pardons an ex-charge of Convergence, from the Pujol environment. The Rajoy government pardoned an ex-charge of Convergence, and of this not three hundred years ago, this was the last legislature. Well, this is not going to happen again with this law. [[Show another document]] Mr Rajoy, or whoever the future President of the Government is, will not be able to pardon the corrupt with a political decision of his Government. [[Show another document]] Nor will they be able to pardon their mayors, even if they have twelve urban corruption offences; they will not be able to do so. Nor will the Socialist Party be able to grant pardons as it did. [[Show another document]] At the end of the millennium you will remember the one known as the pardon of the millennium: it was 1,400 pardons in one day that granted the government of Mr Aznar. There were 1,400 pardons; like the one who prescribes a medicine; 1,400 gentlemen who do not have to serve their sentence. This is gonna be over. Pardons must be motivated if they are not for corruption and if they are for corruption they must be prohibited. [[Applauds]] There is a third point in this new, innovative legislation that we bring to this House, which has never been dealt with in the Spanish Penal Code: illicit enrichment. And you will say: what does that mean? This means that if a public office, if a natural person exponentially increases his or her assets and cannot prove where that assets come from, he or she is immediately investigated because he or she may have committed an offence. What's this supposed to mean? For instead of having so many obstacles and difficulties - when some are doing business in tax havens and hiding their assets and their origin - this obliges a public office, for example, to have an obligation to account for the origin of the money when their assets are increased. If this rule that we are bringing in today had been in force, Mr Rato, for example, could not have doubled his assets in one year without giving explanations in this House. See if it's useful what we're talking about; the Rat case wouldn't exist if this crime of illicit enrichment had already been launched. They did not start it with an absolute majority - I imagine why - but we are going to start it now in this new legislature. But not only the Barcenas case, but also the Malaya case. Mr Roca would have to have proved the origin of his money in the Malaya case, and so a long number of cases of people who have increased their assets with money from the crime and have left in rositas or we have taken many years - for other tax and other offences - to know what they were doing. It is true that Al Capone was caught for a fiscal offence, but in the 21st century if someone has illicit enrichment let's hope that it does not fall for a fiscal offence, but for the crimes that correspond to it. So illicit enrichment will be a crime if this law is dealt with and the House agrees to implement it. [[Applauds]] The fourth point that we bring to this House in this anti-corruption law is the elimination of a blockade that the People's Party launched at the end of the last parliamentary term, with which we do not agree, but I know that neither do the vast majority of public servants in the field of justice, because it was an obstacle to being able to investigate corruption. A maximum period was set for investigation of criminal proceedings. Gentlemen of the People's Party, I tell you one thing, it's not about putting in a box at six months a criminal case that affects a public office, it's not about that; it's about giving the judges money and resources to do it quickly. Do not think that changing the law solves the problem. The problem is not that our judges and prosecutors do not do their job, the problem is the provision of material resources. Citizens prefer to increase - and we are also negotiating in the budgets - the items for justice and not to make unjust laws like those you did. We want to remove the limit for investigating corruption. There must be no footsteps or limits in this country to investigate the corrupt. [[Applauds]] You know perfectly well what I'm talking about, because very recently in the Pasarelas case, a trial for possible political corruption of some of your posts has been brought into the archive, drawing precisely from this article that you amended in this last legislature. The fifth point - which is also fundamental to the fight against corruption - is that political parties, trade unions and employers should be held accountable for corruption. This is understood by any citizen who is seeing us. When someone does something wrong they take responsibility for what they have done wrong, when someone has a company they take responsibility for what happens in that company. Well, political parties, trade unions and employers - bodies of special constitutional protection, the Constitution recognizes us a role in Spanish society - we have to take care of possible cases of corruption. It's not worth saying: it was Barcenes. No, it was Bárcenas, no; it was the party of Bárcenas and it is the one that has to return to the last euro the Spaniards of what Mr Bárcenas has done. [[Applauds]] It's not worth saying: it was Griñán or Chaves; it's not worth it. The money has to be returned because the Spaniards want the penalty to be served, but especially if the money is returned to them, let's speak clearly. This rule that we put in place here makes political parties the first to be interested in pursuing corruption, because then they will be held responsible with their money, with their assets, with the quotas of their affiliates, for the money that they have been able to scam or steal their political positions. It seems to me to be a fundamental rule. Responsibility; anyone who works in the civil world or in a company, in any field, knows that whoever makes it pays it and pays it to the last cent. In Spain, when someone one day fails to pay the quota of self-employed - one day - and does not pay to the Treasury, he has a fine, has a surcharge, pays and takes over even more of what he owes. In this country, therefore, political parties must be the first to take responsibility for what they have done wrong in the public administration. This is the fifth fundamental point of this law. The last point also seems novel to me, because it highlights the work that our officials do and because we also give them a signal, because behind this not only is there a legislative change, but there is a change of order in values. It seems to me that the secretaries, the interveners, the public officials, especially of the local administration, must be protected in order to be able to face the plots of urban corruption, in order to be able to say no to a shift chief. We have to protect them. We've seen cases where you're trying to liquidate, politically speaking, the secretary on duty. Even at times, as in the Pokemon case, the secretaries have been insulted in a derogatory way, saying: let's see how we get this heavy one off the ground that wants to enforce the law. Well, the city secretaries and the interveners want to send a message from here: we're going to protect them, we're going to help them, we want them to do their job. We will provide legal mechanisms for those who enforce the law, who are public fedataries, in every municipality of the 8,300 peoples of Spain. [[Applauds]] That's fundamental. There's a lot of news of corruption, there's news of corruption in this country every day. Even today without going any further there is one talking precisely of interveners: The calvary of the intervener of Arganda for wanting to put stop to Innova and the Gürtel. [[Show a document]] I invite you to look for the cases of secretaries and interveners, and you must be protected to denounce corruption. It is necessary to protect those who defend the State and not those who corrupt the State. In short, to finish, there are more points in this law; one of them talks about giving transparency to the relationship with lobbies in this Parliament, something that has already been done by parliaments throughout Europe and even by the European Parliament. I believe that Spain must also come up with this regulation, without mixing it with corruption, but by clearly regulating these relations. To conclude this intervention I would like to draw your attention so that we take steps beyond throwing corruption on the table. The problem is not that the corrupt is the PP or the PSOE or the PSOE or the PP. [[Rumors.-Protests]] The problem is that we have corruption in this country. Well, don't be surprised, you're going to one a week. [[Applauds]] In the last week, the councilwoman of the Valencian Community, Case Noos, condemned; in the last week, Jaume Matas, autonomous president, condemned; accused the president of Murcia a few hours ago. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Yes, yes, accused the president of Murcia. So don't be surprised that people are concerned about corruption, because they carry a rhythm of accusations and convictions that you hold... [[Applauds]] Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not a party problem, it is a problem for Spain; it is true that some have problems and others do not, but it is a problem for Spain. That is why I propose that we act together, that we process this law and welcome the amendments with many points, and that what has not been done in the last 40 years be done now. But let us, please, that we can tell the Spaniards that we are going to protect the good and that we are going to punish the bad, that we can tell the Spaniards that the Congress of Deputies, with a broad majority - I hope unanimous - of the parties, will process this law so that we can also tell the citizens that whoever does it well has a prize, not punishment, and that whoever does it wrong pays it. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u3	Thank you very much. The joint parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Foro will support the consideration of this law defended by the spokesman for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera. Ladies and gentlemen, all political parties have made commitments to the fight against corruption in their electoral programmes. There have been parliamentary agreements on this important matter and even a permanent non-legislative committee has been set up on this matter. That is why it is striking that an issue of unquestionable general interest has been promoted from a single parliamentary group with a legislative initiative that could certainly be very shared and driven by the whole House. The desire to find loopholes to be noticed in parliamentary history is human, but this race is not understood as being the first, not the only, concerned to deepen the transparency of public administration and the fight against corruption. It seeks to promote further measures to recognize and facilitate the rights of complainants in the field of public administration by establishing a comprehensive protection framework for their protection and guarantee. There is a circumstance that in Spain, unlike most European countries, there is no legislative text in this regard; it is therefore necessary to establish a set of guarantees to protect the complainant from privacy, anonymity and privacy, as well as his physical integrity, his legal defence, and ultimately all the necessary measures to develop and extend the protection of witnesses through a national standard. This has to be a law that responds to the United Nations Convention against Corruption, of which Spain is a signatory. It is a law that seeks to create the so-called independent authority of public integrity, an entity that, in accordance with our legislation, grants effective protection measures in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Europe. In any case, there is much to be done in the fight against corruption and to increase the rights already enjoyed by the complainant through the Criminal Code, the Organic Law for the Protection of Witnesses and Experts, as well as other laws and statutes. Finally, I would like to point out that the Committee on Justice unanimously adopted an initiative by the Basque Parliamentary Group just 12 days ago to improve the legal order in the fight against corruption. [[EAJ-PNV]] I would not like to conclude my speech without referring to the important set of 60 proposals that the tenacious Spanish section of Transparency International has made to advance and complement the current regulatory framework in our country. This is another line of work to follow, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u6	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, you have two votes in favour by the Navarro People's Union in this consideration of the proposal for a comprehensive law to combat corruption and protect whistleblowers, and for two very simple reasons. The first is that I can say to the full that if there is in this House a political party that has always fought, since its foundation, against corruption, it has been the Union of the Navarro People. Almost forty years ago, the party to which I proudly belong was founded, and donations are prohibited from the first day of its constitution in order to avoid the interests of third parties. And secondly, with facts: since 1991, when he came to power in the outlaw government of Navarre - and we have been virtually uninterrupted until 2015 - there has been not a single case of corruption of any public office of the government of Navarre under the mandate of the Navarro People's Union. That is therefore our credential and that is our presentation card, and we will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u7	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u8	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I want to greet the Platform for Honesty that has come to hear today's plenary session. Citizens bring us to debate today a law of comprehensive fight against corruption and the protection of whistleblowers; a law that is defined as ambitious and has the objectives, among many other things, to improve transparency, promote accountability of public offices, limit discretion in appointments... All this would seem to us to be most consistent if it were not proposed by the same party that has invested President Rajoy and the People's Party, the same People's Party that has presented itself with election after doped election. So let's talk about corruption, because unfortunately in the Valencia Country we know a lot. By the way, Milagrosa is from the Gürtel plot; we already have so many, that we are confused. We also know a lot about the doping of the People's Party in the Valencia Country. [[Show a document]] Look, this is the family photo of convicts, accused or investigated now from the Valencia Country. Fabra: expression of the Diputación, crimes against the Public Treasury. Ripoll: Speaker of the Alacant Diputation, Brugal case. Rus: expression of the Diputació de Valencia, case Imelsa; the same as 'Alfonso, I love you, pussy': the same. Castedo: exalcaldesa d'Alacant, Brugal case. Barberà: former Mayor of Valencia and former President of the People's Party, Taula case. Blasco: former advisor to the Generalitat, case Cooperation. Camps: Generality Expressor, Formula I case. So let's talk about corruption, yeah. It may seem like a thing of the past, the People's Party can present itself as renewed while Citizens give it to the governments of the institutions. But without going any further, yesterday, our spokesman at the Diputació d'Alacant, Gerard Fullana, unveiled another possible case of corruption, another Fatur plot within the Gürtel plot: up to three million euros could have been split to benefit related companies. By the way, Alicante's deputy headed by the People's Party also thanks to him who was a citizen's deputy. So let's talk about corruption. Obviously the best way to fight it is not to allow people who have paid for election campaigns with supposedly corrupt money to be in institutions. And that, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, is not just done with a law, it is done by being consistent and sending the opposition to whoever may have their hands stained, because if we talk about corruption, Albert Rivera, it is so much to blame who allows him to steal as who steals. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u9	For the Joint Group too, I have the floor, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. Today we are joined by the Platform for Honesty, to which I welcome. Mr Rivera, we are going to vote in favour, of course, of taking account of this proposal for a law, because it interests us; because we are concerned that the necessary guarantees be given to protect the person who uncovers corruption, the person who dares to denounce it, the person who wants to put an end to corruption; because it is the first step in being able to tackle it; because it is necessary for the person who denounces to feel covered under an umbrella with comprehensive protection that guarantees it, because this strengthens the rule of law. We're actually on it, Mr. Rivera. You ask us to vote in favour of this bill and to work together and work together. I would remind you that we are already in a committee of democratic quality, where we work for all the Members of this House and which you chair. The Commission has already passed a number of speakers to discuss various issues that have given us the greatest interest, including the protection of the whistleblower from corruption, an initiative that has been promoted and proposed since March by the Platform for Honesty, to whom we recognize its momentum and its promotion. We have also committed ourselves to bringing the representatives of the Platform for Honesty before this Commission of democratic quality, and we also want people who have denounced corruption to appear, to explain to us how a victim suffers harassment, harassment and loss of everything or almost everything because of the fact that he has denounced, and to make it clear that this coercion is neither of the right nor of the left nor of any Government, but of the governments of very many colours, unfortunately. So we're on it. You will find this cooperation within the Commission of democratic quality, unless you want it to be loaded with a pen. He has not told us what consideration he deserves from this Commission we are working on. But we feel - some spokesman has commented earlier - that there is a sort of opportunism, a sort of repellent Vincent child who wants to appropriate and make a flag of an initiative before anyone else. I remind you that from the creators of 'I do not care to lose dignity for Spain' we now 'we will make a law in order to be able to protect the complainant from corruption', at the same time as 'I give the Government of the Community of Madrid demanding certain compensations' while in Andalusia these same compensations are not required; or that we know how to put an adviser in Europe to a Member of the Parliament of Catalonia with judicial stubbornness and possible tax fraud. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz and Mr. Girauta Vidal make hand gestures, showing three fingers]] I mean, Mr. Rivera, fair lessons. We will give you our support, but you have not made it clear what you are going to do with the Commission that you are chairing, whether you want to work on it and whether you really want to make proposals or simply make a flag on this issue to win a title, proper to those political forces that feel ephemeral in the passage through Congress. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u11	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u12	Thank you very much, President. We are being proposed by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to propose a comprehensive law to combat corruption and protect whistleblowers. Certainly the scope of the law is much broader and could be described as an omnibus law. In reality it contains more than ninety articles grouped in its own article and in the various additional and final provisions. Specifically, it specifically amends two organizational laws: the Organic Law on General Electoral Regime and the Organic Law on the Criminal Code. It also amends a number of other laws such as the Law on the exercise of the high office of the General Administration of the State, the General Tax Law, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Transparency, Access to Public Information and Good Governance, the rules of the right of pardon that we discussed here a few days ago, the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, the Law Regulating Local Regimes... In short, a plurality of laws. As I was telling you, an omnibus law. It draws our attention - it has been pointed out here by other parliamentary groups - that having constituted within the three committees of this House three subcommittees that were going to deal in a comprehensive way with the issue of the defence of the complainants of corruption and witnesses, in short, to all their problems - in the Committee of Democratic Quality and Defence against Corruption, in the Pact for Justice and in the field of Public Finance we had already begun the work to have a global view of this issue, which is a problem that is cross-cutting to the whole legal system, to all administrations and to all people - we find this proposal of law that actually makes a shortcut, skips all the procedures that we had started jointly, coordinated and with consensus and presents us with the point of arrival. We have already seen this operation when we discussed the creation of a subcommittee within the framework of the Committee on Justice to deal with a pact for justice and we are here with a similar product in the field of justice. We were already given the conclusions of work that had not even begun. The proposal, of course; it has contributions and, like all contributions, there are some better and some worse. From our point of view and in procedural terms, we do not think the time is right and our parliamentary group will not take it into consideration. Another thing is that it is a contribution that will have its value, so we will analyse it or we will take it into account, at least on the part of our parliamentary group, in reflecting on the conclusions that we are reaching in these three committees on this issue. At that moment, we will speak. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, there is an African saying which says: If you want to go fast, go alone, but if you want to go far, go accompanied. We want to get far and not go fast. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u13	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today because in the Spanish state things happen that have nothing to do with reason or justice. I am talking to you about people who, in the exercise of their functions, are honest and work to make the common good effective. I am talking about public officials who, in the face of flagrant or not so flagrant criminal acts, have carried out their duties until their last consequences putting their well-being, their health and their social environment at risk. They are people who have dared to denounce the serious cases of corruption in the Spanish State - the Gürtel plot or the cases of corruption in the Spanish Army, for example - and the consequences of these complaints have often led them to be removed from their jobs, to find themselves in a precarious economic situation or to be subject to criminal complaints or social vacuum, among others. Without the will to be exclusive, I will refer to two people who are the engine of this bill that presents us today Citizens: Ana Garrido and Luis Gonzalo Segura. Obviously, there are many more people like them, with that same clear will, and today some accompany us in the guest gallery, along with the members of the Platform for Honesty. To all of them our utmost appreciation for the titanic work they have been carrying out for a long time. On the subject, this is not the first time in plenary that I have been forced to recriminate the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for its opportunism. They are again trying to capitalize on initiatives that are born of consensus and that are currently being discussed or agreed to be discussed in the committees or subcommittees. We can understand your uneasiness and that need to appear before the scrutiny of the citizenry as a useful party, but unfortunately it does not hang, and you know that. In this particular case, an existing agreement between the Platform for Honesty and the majority of parliamentary groups, including Citizens, has been missed to draft from the consensus a bill against corruption and for the protection of the complainant. Don't you remember? A proposal for a law that, as was already established at the time, should be discussed within the framework of the Commission of Democratic Quality, Anti-Corruption and Institutional Reform; it was one of the three topics to be discussed. What a desire for leadership you really have! I suppose it is given to them in part by the correlation of forces in the Chamber, which leaves them in a complex situation of lack of visibility and depersonalization. Perhaps you find these forms legitimate, and I do not say they are not, the problem is that you play with a very sensitive subject. The only way for citizens to perceive on an issue such as this one that there is a clear will to tackle corruption is to pose this project as a broad political agreement to see how to restore democratic quality to the institutions; an agreement that not only results from the consensus of the majority of groups but also from the experience and work of the affected and social partners, as in this case. Don't you see that your parliamentary group is not exactly the most suitable to present this bill alone? The facts give them away. They have allowed the Government access to a group such as the People's Party that is under suspicion and in which corruption is part of its organizational structure. [[A Member of Parliament: Hala!]] They have a government agreement with the ERE party in Andalusia and it seems that they are now ready to maintain the current People's Party government in Murcia. They have no credibility and it is already becoming difficult to trust you to seek consensus. We prefer to believe that your group is not used to working on social consensus and that, therefore, it is difficult for you to manage agreements from the very complexity. How do you think you're going to manage the famous state pacts if it's not from the social consensus? Leaving aside the suitability or not of how you present this proposal of law and the real will or not to seek consensus, we share for the most part the content of that proposal. In fact, this bill largely reflects the proposal put forward by the Platform for Honesty, which is why we are voting in favour of taking this bill into consideration. In any case, we reserve the right to table amendments on those contradictory points, but this time seeking consensus with those groups that guarantee and respect the framework of the debate that allows the subcommittee. In Catalonia, in its day, we already advanced creating the Anti-Fraud Office at the initiative of Esquerra Republicana, being its first director David Martínez Madero, who was anti-corruption prosecutor, sadly deceased; the second director, well known to the Minister of the Interior. We are also moving forward in legislative matters by drafting a much more ambitious and demanding transparency law with public institutions and administrations; all the requirements arising from that law are currently being deployed. Therefore, if there is real will not to hang medals but to work, they can count on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Yllanes Suárez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-In Communal Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to send a greeting to the members of the Platform for Honesty, people who are doing important work so that the whistleblowers of corruption can regain their full rights in this country. Welcome to this House. The statement of reasons for the proposal by the Citizens' Group shows that corruption is a problem that needs to be addressed and resolved and that is the second major concern of the Spanish people. Absolutely agree. We absolutely agree with that sensitivity because in the Confederal Group of the United States We can-In Comú Pomão-In Marea we have been able to pick it up. In the XI Legislature we proposed the creation of the commission against corruption, and that now, in the XII Legislature, with the character of permanent non-legislative commission of democratic quality against, is called For the fight against corruption and institutional and legal reforms. We question whether Citizens share that sensitivity, I am sorry, Mr Rivera; they will have to convince us that this is their concern, that they really want to fight corruption and protect whistleblowers and that it is not another excuse for you to continue sucking the camera. [[Rumors]] Why do we say that? Very simple; in December 2016, a GNP was submitted to the Justice Committee to urge the Government to address the shortcomings in the fight against corruption and the shortcomings highlighted in the Greek report. In January 2017 a subcommission was set up within the Commission of democratic quality and precisely one of its themes is the protection of whistleblowers of corruption. We believe that you have clearly disregarded both of the commitments that you have signed in submitting this legislative proposal and it will be necessary to anticipate the work in the subcommittee. We don't think that's his sensibility for something very simple. When you made the parliamentary pact with the People's Party, you reduced the catalogue of corruption-related offences to the minimum necessary, excluding very common and very common criminal types for the People's Party. In addition, you have given confidence to a government that continues to have corruption in its DNA and you are not able to take it away from it. Two recent examples. Judgment of the Noos case. Jaume Matas, former President of the Community of the Balearic Islands, to whom I am proud to represent, has again been condemned and begins to have an absolutely enviable historical-penal sheet. Do you remember Mr. Rajoy's literal words? I want Spain to have a government like Jaume Matas for the Balearics. Well, nothing, it's enough for me to take a look at your neighbors and flatters and you'll have no problem creating a government like that. [[Applauds]] As for the President of Murcia, Mr Rajoy, applying that so lax and fantastic code of ethics that the People's Party has, is not going to ask him to resign. This morning I heard Mr. Girauta say that you are going to claim it and I ask: Will you be able to take the next step? Will they be able to present a motion of censure and thus end once and for all the infamous manoeuvring that the People's Party systematically makes of the right to the presumption of innocence by confusing what is political responsibility with criminal responsibility? We hope so, that you will be able to do so. Therefore, real commitment and not an excuse for you to continue sucking camera, Mr Rivera. [[Applauds]] The speech you made here today sounds a lot to me like an article I read two days ago, sounds a lot to me. Having said that, I will tell you one thing, we are going to vote in favour of the consideration. [[Applause.-Rumors.-Several Members: Oh!]] Sure. Yeah, yeah. But not for you to rejoice, but because the Platform for Honesty has expressly asked us because you are concerned, and also because any legislative effort to combat corruption seems absolutely necessary to us, and there will be the work of all the Members of the Confederal Group, but I assure you that it will not be a witness commitment. We want to protect the rights of corruption whistleblowers by strengthening their protection because the system has now turned them not into corruption whistleblowers, but into victims of corruption. Work harassment, judicial harassment, media harassment with impact not only on their lives but on their entire environment and in some of the cases - I am remembering Luis Gonzalo Segura - a situation very similar to civilian death. That is why we will contribute to this subcommission, which you have in some way wanted to boycott with the presentation of this bill, to European experts who come to tell us the real work that is being done in other countries to defend whistleblowers of corruption. You propose the creation of the independent authority of public integrity. Perfect, it seems to us a brilliant idea; moreover, it is an idea that in the background does not stop drinking from a very important source. We have done so both in the Valencià Country and in the Balearic Islands, where we have created specific anti-corruption bodies. But it is not enough to create it, but it will have to be provided with effective independence and with its own resources with the clear political will to make it work and effectively fulfil its mission. I insist, we can contribute our experiences, what we did in the Valencia Country and in the Balearic Islands Community. Reform of the Penal Code, you say. I will not enter into the legal disquisitions that Mr. Legarda has done much better than I have, but will reform the Criminal Code just to introduce the crime of illicit enrichment? There are more conducts to be covered by the Criminal Code. My group will do very serious work to ensure that such conduct is also included in its bill. Regulation of lobbies, which is also of great concern to them. We welcome the fact that they are forcing the lobbies to register in a public register. It seems to us a splendid measure; however, we want to go further. We want to do something that we have missed in your proposal, which is to introduce into our system the culture of the political traceability of senior officials, of politicians, of positions of trust, because that will get us to avoid something for what the Confederal Group has been fighting for since the first minute, which is to put an end to the said rotating doors. [[Applauds]] Transparency. Right now, we're in a transparency index that significantly exceeds legal requirements, and not just that. After seeing what you propose about transparency in your bill, we have realized that we are doing absolutely everything. What do I mean by that, Mr. Rivera? That we don't say things, but we do. Now we ask you to do the same, that in addition to saying it and bringing the bill here do what you are preaching. We already do, we go ahead. What do I mean by that? Something hugely simple. By the way, you have spoken of the reform of the Law of Pardon, a law of the nineteenth century. Although you have now defined yourselves as the liberals of Cadiz, so you have somehow accepted the nineteenth-century ideals, you must put an end to the Law of Pardon. It is not enough to reform it, to introduce patches into a law of 1870, but to elaborate a new one. This is a challenge we have in this legislature. What do I want to say in the end to the Citizens' Parliamentary Group as a conclusion? That who will put the seal of quality in this proposal, in the fight against corruption, for transparency and for the defense of whistleblowers of cases of corruption will be the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, since we do not have the ballast that I have explained before supporting an absolutely corrupt political party, as is the People's Party. [[Applauds]] I'll explain it to you in a very simple way. The PSOE is due to the one who owes it and we are not going to ask for anything at all. You are advanced students; you have done what the lists do in class, you have copied the Platform's proposal for Honesty, you have collected ideas that are in the Podemos program and with all that you have done a little bit that you have presented in the House. So you get what you like best: sucking camera, sucking camera, sucking camera. [[Applauds]] Rest assured that all Members of the Confederal Group of the United People's Party will work for something very important. First, so that corruption becomes one more episode of the black history of recent politics in this country and that we do not recover nineteenth-century tendencies so dear to you after declaring yourself Liberals of Cadiz. And secondly, so that whole people like Ana, Azahara, Fernando or Luis stop becoming victims by precisely denouncing the corrupt behaviors of all those around them who have had greater responsibilities than their own. That will be our commitment and there they will count on our work, but, I insist, no posture, no sucking camera, but real work, effective. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u17	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Muñoz González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech, on behalf of the Socialist Group, by thanking the Platform for Honesty today in this debate to take account of this bill. Also with that thank you goes our appreciation for the work that is being done. The subject that we are debating today in this House by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group is important enough for us to try to be rigorous as regards the setting of the position of our group, which is already advancing them that it will be a vote in favour of their consideration, without prejudice to what I will say throughout this speech by stressing that this is an important matter enough for it to have been discussed with the House's consensus and under the principles agreed at the recent meeting of the Justice Committee. Just over ten days ago in the Committee on Justice, there was a non-legislative proposal from the Basque Parliamentary Group on this same subject and, accepting an amendment from our group which was brilliantly defended by my colleague, Mr Artemi Rallo, it was agreed that something has not been complied with today by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] The Commission unanimously approved the processing of a request to the Government to submit a draft law in this area. Faced with that unanimous decision, today it has come with an individual initiative. You have already covered yourself by saying that this was recorded last year, but it is you who set out what matters you bring to the agenda. We have always been very concerned about respect for parliamentary forms, and if we have constantly criticized the People's Party Government when it fails to comply with the non-legislative proposals and their content, it seems to us that we also have to have that respect among the parliamentary groups, and when it is agreed that we have to deal with a matter in a certain way, what is desirable is that this should be done; much more so in a legislature such as this, where fortunately there is a Commission on these matters which, by the way, has begun a process of appearances which are going to fail with this initiative, unless all the groups that are represented on the Bureau agree to suspend the tabling of amendments until the hearings are over, so that they do not become void. By entering some of the issues that are introduced into this bill, we have to say - as all the speakers have said - that political corruption is perceived by citizens as one of the fundamental problems that affects and corrodes nothing more and nothing less than the principle of trust in democratic institutions, that detracts public resources - which is the worst that can be done -; resources that have to go to public services and much more in a situation of economic crisis that alters free competition and increases the cost of infrastructure and services. But the fight against corruption, if one speaks of an integral law, must take account of two principles: on the one hand, preventive questions and, on the other, repressive questions. This bill does not mention any initiatives in the field of prevention, and it is essential that this be done. For example, when our group adopted the comprehensive law on gender-based violence, it had a whole chapter on the suppression of such behaviours, but also a chapter on prevention and education in relation to such behaviours. We must therefore ensure that officials, public servants and the authorities - which also exist - report cases of corruption have a legal status of protection so that they can take such decisions, as is their obligation - and I shall refer to that later - knowing that they will have the support of the whole State; much more so in the public administration, where those concerned by the complaints presented are the hierarchical superiors of those who submit the complaint. In addition, our country is subject to obligations arising from international treaties; international treaties that we have to comply with, although the Government of the People's Party does not heed the reports it receives, such as that of the European Commission which was presented to the Council and Parliament in 2014 and which speaks of Spain's lack of specific rules protecting whistleblowers. Therefore, everything that guarantees whistleblowers is fundamental to us because, as I said earlier, whistleblowers are subject to the obligation to report in this case. The authorities and public officials are obliged to report, and not in any way, but if we do not report, criminal proceedings will be brought against us. This is provided for in article 408 of the Criminal Code and the obligation to report under article 162 of the Criminal Procedure Act. Our position is clear, fully committed to the fight against corruption; here are the initiatives in our electoral programme and in our code of ethics. We think, Mr Rivera, gentlemen of Citizens, that your initiative is short and also very grandiose in terms of your statement, which is contrary to the content of it. Not by calling an integral law constitutes an integral law; it must have a legal precision of which it suffers in this case. It follows that if this initiative is not corrected in the parliamentary procedure - we will be in charge of the parliamentary groups to do so - it will ultimately be counterproductive for the purposes intended with it. We understand and say that this is an imprecise legal initiative. We would say that it is a sort of legal illusion typical of emerging forces that have formed themselves no more or less than in adalides of adanism. We understand that this initiative, apart from competing problems - not even in vain the initiative itself recognizes only three basic precepts, resorting to the so-called Article 149.1.1.a - contrasts between what we preach and what we do. I am referring, for example, to the support you have given to a parliamentary initiative, to Law 2/2016 on Castile and León. You have supported that parliamentary initiative with which you seek to create an independent authority. Do you know who the independent authority you have supported in Castile and Lion is? The General Service Inspectorate of the Castile and Lion Board. Unless you have an obvious prejudice towards the General Inspectorate of Services of the General Administration of the State, we would not understand it, unless you believe that the public employees of the regional administrations are worse off in that they may not require that support that is given elsewhere. That coherence must therefore be achieved. Nor are all things arranged by sowing Spain with independent or supposedly independent authorities. By the way, the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector says that they have to be called independent administrative authorities because they do not cease to lose their administrative roots - it says expressly -. Even this technical correction must be put into this parliamentary initiative. But, as I said, things don't work out by sowing Spain from independent authorities. A few days ago, in considering the Public Sector Contracts Act, the citizen representative spoke of the creation of an authority in the regulation of the public procurement market. I think this is not the formula. The formula should be to give true content and create that status of independence as stated in the international treaties that bind us to whom it is necessary to ensure that officials who have that obligation and are therefore bound to do so have that status of fundamental protection and feel that the Administration and the whole of the Spanish are behind when they are uncovering matters relating to corruption. It affects other legislative amendments through several final provisions that you set out in the proposed law. It seems to us in relation to the ineligibility of the defendants, which is close to what we have established in our own code of ethics; we also understand it in relation to the amendment of the Law regulating the exercise of the high office. With regard to transparency, we believe that they remain short; we should make some further progress, without prejudice to the fact that, even if we agree with the estimated role of silence in relation to requests relating to transparency and citizens' requests for information, we raise a prevention related to the elimination that you make of leaving unprotected issues as sensitive as national security, defence, external relations, public security or professional secrecy. It seems to us that we must combine all these interests which contribute to an initiative dealing with this issue. As the representative of Podemos has said before, it seems to us that the regulation they make of a new type that they want to introduce, which is the unjustified enrichment of officials and authorities, is scarce and bad. Let me tell you something. Sometimes, by getting too far, we come to conclusions that are not what we want when we come up with an initiative. If this initiative were to come out of here in the terms in which it enters as a proposal for a law, the safest thing would be that the first of the judges of Spain would raise a question of unconstitutionality because it is subject to an inquisitorial principle, fortunately undone by Spanish society since we adopted the 1978 Constitution. I'll finish the way I started. The fight against corruption is the responsibility of all of us. We are all called to work on all these initiatives. We believe that this was not the form, that the form was the consensus, but we are going to work because we believe that this is an issue where we all have to stick together to do the great work that the society of politicians expects. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs Escudero Berzal has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to greet all the people who are accompanying us in the rostrum and also all the netizens who follow the debate through the networks. I thought we were coming here today to talk about how to fight corruption. I regret the tone of the debate that you have marked, Mr Rivera. He surprised me negatively, and I'm sorry. I believe that the citizens have given us a message: that we should agree and work together. My parliamentary group will follow that message. Mr. Yllanes, I am ashamed to see how a judge, even now a politician, treads a fundamental right: the presumption of innocence. [[Applauds]] You here today have condemned the whole People's Party of Spain without being prosecuted. I'm ashamed and I won't allow it. Ladies and gentlemen - I say this to several of those who have spoken - we are the legislative branch, and they have used this forum to judge, to criticize court judgments and to judge cases that are not yet. Don't do what we're telling the Spaniards not to do. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rivera, it is not that you have done demagoguery today, it is that you have lied in this rostrum when you said that Mr Rajoy has granted pardons to his councillors and mayors. In the years 2014 and 2015, in which you did not yet exist politically in this Parliament, no pardon for corruption has been granted from the Government of Spain, none, and I ask you to respect the thousands of mayors and councillors of the People's Party. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows news from the newspaper El Mundo]] [[Applauds]] Are the 3,123,769 citizens who voted for you the good ones and the 7,906,185 who voted for the People's Party the bad ones? Fighting corruption is good and bad? Is it that simple? Is it that demagogic to you, Mr. Rivera? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u21	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u22	Mrs de Compromís, I regret that you consider the Spaniards corrupt, because you are shocked that the People's Party has won the elections twice. Do you mean that the Spanish vote for the People's Party because we are corrupt or do you mean that all Spanish society voting for the People's Party is corrupt? There is no systemic corruption in Spain, as is the case in a large number of countries. There are many, too many, many scandals of political and administrative corruption. In recent years, since 2009, there has been a political failure that we all know very important, which has broken the trust between representatives and their representatives, but for the Government, both the X Legislature and the XII Legislature, the fight against corruption has been and remains one of its priority axes of action. The action of the Government and that of my parliamentary group is to confront firmly one of the scourges that most affect the reputation of democratic society. For my group democracy must be demanding and everything is little to improve the system. Mr. Rivera, gentlemen of Citizens, welcome. The People's Parliamentary Group welcomes them in the fight against corruption. [[Laughter and applause from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]] We count on you, ladies and gentlemen. In the explanatory statement of this proposal for a law you point out - I read textually - that we can no longer deal with the commission of bad practices that sow doubts among citizens about the legitimacy of our democratic institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, alarming citizens, talking about good and bad and using demagoguery on this issue is the only thing that is causing, the only thing, is the weakening of the state, although I have no doubt that its intention is not this. We cannot question the basic values and principles of our legal system or our rule of law to combat corruption, never. These are untouchable and we are obliged to maintain them, to defend them and to respect them. According to the Royal Academy of the Spanish Language, to endure means to endure with resignation a disease, a penalty or a situation that does not fully satisfy. It has not exactly been up to the People's Party Government or my parliamentary group on this issue. The Government of the People's Party has been the first in the history of Spain to present the National Democratic Regeneration Plan for the deterrence and punishment of corrupt practices with more than seventy measures, both preventive and coercive, which are grouped into five axes that are well known: the Transparency Act, the Criminal Code Reform Act, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Political Party Financing Act and the High Commissioner's Statute Act. The most ambitious package of democratic regeneration measures in Spain's history, articulating a large number of measures aimed at improving control mechanisms, with greater criminal demands, promoting prevention, promoting institutional transparency and the accounts of political parties. I do not have time to list the most seventy measures, but I would like to remind you that the pact signed between the People's Party and the Citizens' Party has marked twenty-six anti-corruption measures, which will add to the seventy measures that this Parliament has already adopted in the 10th Legislature at the request of the People's Party. Nor am I going to list all the laws that have been amended, and not just the Penal Code as you have pointed out. Measures, moreover, that have been implemented and that are bearing fruit, ladies and gentlemen, and you know that it is a work that does not give results from one day to another, but the laws that were adopted from 2012 to 2015 go in the right direction and so recognizes, surprisingly unanimously, the whole doctrine. However, there has not been enough time, as I say, to check its practical application. I have to tell you that the perception of corruption has dropped by four points. From the CIS of December 2016 to the CIS of January 2017, the perception of corruption among Spanish citizens has dropped by four points. I guess this will cheer you up, it's good news. On the other hand, the professor of criminal law, Mrs Nogales, brought at the request of Podemos for the appearance in the subcommittee, analyzing the funding of political parties, said that it represents a great advance on what was and that it has been a remarkable improvement. Ladies and gentlemen, during the 2011-2015 parliamentary term, very fruitful legislative steps were taken to combat corruption, and as a result today we do not start from scratch, here is a very solid basis: seventy measures adopted by this House. Although it seems to you, gentlemen of Citizens, it is difficult for you to recognize that there is someone who has done something to fight corruption and it hurts you not to do it. It seems as if you are continually trying to prove that only you have proposals to combat corruption; we have proposals and measures that are already in place, we have proposals and we have facts. These measures were approved by the People's Party, sometimes alone, with the support of the former CiU, the PNV, the Canary Coalition, the Forum and the Navarro People's Union and the vote against the PSOE, the United Left, UPyD and the rest of the Joint Group. Measures, as I say to you, which are a very solid basis but we also know that they are not enough and that more legislation is needed in this regard; we must certainly improve, and we thank you for getting into the car and getting rid of it with us. It would be very unfair not only with the PP but also with this House, with all those who supported these measures, not to acknowledge the work that has been done. On the good results I remind you of the Greek report of the Group of States against Corruption of the Council of Europe of 2016, which states that Spain has complied with eleven of the fifteen recommendations made to our country and that the remaining four have already been partially implemented. These are measures, ladies and gentlemen, which are working, and I therefore welcome the fight against corruption. You speak of the need for political will and responsibility to tackle corruption. We all have political will to fight corruption, I can assure you, all of us, if you don't ask. And on the political responsibility to tackle it, the People's Party has done so, despite many, because of course it was our responsibility as a government party but it was also the responsibility of others who were here and did not do so. They pursue three objectives in this bill. First, transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party achieved this in 2013 with the Law on Transparency, Access to Public Information and Good Governance. I'm sure it can be improved, of course it can; let's do it, starting from what's already there and it's working. Recognize it, do not be afraid to recognize that things have been done, many things, to combat corruption. The second of its objectives is to foster the accountability of our politicians and public officials. You know that nothing that is being investigated or judged now corresponds to current facts but from other times. Frankly, I think of the thousands of politicians and officials who work to improve the quality of life of citizens, who do so - I can assure you - with responsibility and without charge but with many burdens, personal, professional and family. They are mayors and councillors 24 hours a day the three hundred and sixty-five days of the year. But for this you have to be mayor or councilman, you don't have to be office politicians alone. [[Applauds]] These are 99% of our politicians and positions; 1% cannot defile the honesty and responsibility of others. The third objective they pursue is to have better controls, in order to limit the discretion of politicians and senior officials to make appointments and contracts in the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that we are obliged to transpose two European provisions in this area and that the Government is going to present a much more ambitious bill to control this issue. And they know him. Ladies and gentlemen, how are we going to oppose the handling of this bill if these objectives of yours are ours, if we share them, because they are ours, because they are already fulfilled, because it is not new to what you propose, absolutely nothing. [[Applauds]] How we will be against measures to combat corruption! Let's be serious and rigorous. There is an agreement of the People's Party with Citizens, we have a pact with twenty-six half to fight corruption. I say to continue fighting corruption, ladies and gentlemen, not to start now, as you intend to do. The pact obliges us, not as an imperative, but by conviction. Otherwise, it would not have been signed. Each of the measures of the pact since it was signed are both yours and ours. I want to tell you again that the 26 measures will be added to the 70 measures that were launched by the People's Party in the 10th Legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that a great political pact for democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption is possible, in which all political parties, over and above party interests, are able to pool the many things that unite us with those who believe in the democratic model to combat this important social problem that concerns us all. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move forward, but let us do so by recognizing and respecting what has already been achieved. Gentlemen of Citizens, you come here today to wear a medal: the medals are put on and taken off by the citizens. Don't forget. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u23	Thank you. - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF REPULIC KEY, ORGANIZATION FOR AMENDMENT OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 6/1985, OF 1 JULY, OF THE JUDICIAL POWER, ON THE IMPROVEMENT OF UNIVERSAL JUSTICE. [[File number 122/000008]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u24	We continue with the consideration of the proposed law of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, an organic amendment to the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judiciary, on the improvement of universal justice. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this Republican Left bill seeks to amend the Organic Law of the Judiciary on the improvement of universal justice. We aspire to reverse the current situation of universal justice in the Spanish State and place it in the pre-2009 scenario. It was then, you will remember, when the Socialist Party gave him the first hack, by restricting it by introducing the requirement of a necessary connection with the Kingdom of Spain so that the courts could judge. In other words, it was ignored that the nature and magnitude of certain crimes required the commitment of the international community to act through universal persecution. The Socialist Party then and, of course, the People's Party in 2014 contravened, in our view, the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which in 2005 had argued that the scope of universal justice should not be limited to linking victims with Spanish interests. In fact, we were moving away from Germany, Belgium, Sweden and Italy, who do realize that universal justice is an indispensable tool for defeating ideas and actions that attack every civilization and the progress of our societies. To highlight genocides, extrajudicial executions, displacements and enforced disappearances, crimes against peace, war crimes, crimes against humanity, crimes against humanity that, as you know, cannot prescribe or go unpunished. Ladies and gentlemen, progress is making it possible for any genocidal person, wherever he is, to have the conviction that he will have to appear before a court sooner or later. Today, the Spanish State no longer contributes too much but very little to this progress. In fact, it has stopped contributing through reforms in 2009 and 2014. Today Esquerra Republicana celebrates - and I say it very sincerely - that the Spanish Socialist Workers Party has announced the vote in favour of our initiative. With your vote a paper will be created and a huge chance will be opened to recover everything that is lost. It will depend on the Socialist Party, it will depend on the correlation of forces existing in this Parliament - very different from other legislatures - and it will also depend on all of us who are able to socialize before our society the imperative of universal justice. Because no one... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u26	One second, Mr. Tardà. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats and remain silent because it is impossible to hear it from the Presidency, and I understand that neither from the rest of the House, the speaker. I hope I don't have to remember that in the afternoon. [[Pause]] Go ahead, Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u27	Thank you, Madam President. He said that no one can deny that there has been increased concern and alarm over the maintenance of permanent situations of human rights violations; in fact, no one can deny that worldwide impunity is expanding and all this within the framework of a breakthrough in racist, xenophobic and militaristic ideas, even in Europe. Perhaps, naively, we had believed that our parents or grandparents had buried the beast under the ground, in Nuremberg, and now we discovered with fear, with terror, that the beast was asleep and that even in more mature democratic societies, than ours, it is forming parliamentary majorities and threatening to conquer the Executive Power in states of democratic tradition. We understand that we must react and you, the Socialist Party, have the key. Our aspiration, I repeat, is to reach the stage before the 2009 reform, so I believe that it is necessary to have a certain perspective because the 2009 reform was neither isolated nor casual. In 2007, the Historical Memory Act was adopted, which shielded the Spanish model of impunity, i.e. a State incapable of legally redressing the victims of Francoism, victims of crimes against humanity committed by the Franco dictatorship. They will also recall the Asylum Act adopted by the Socialist Government in 2009; a law that made the effort to achieve the granting of the right of asylum in the Spanish State titanic. Remember the figures for 2008; by that date, a year before the Asylum Act was passed in this Parliament, the European Union had welcomed 220,000 asylum-seekers; Berlusconi Italy, 10,000; and Rodriguez Zapatero Spain, 151. Subsequently, in 2010, the Aliens Act was adopted, which condemned citizens to live fifteen, sixteen or eighteen years in the Spanish State before they could have their nationality. There was also the armouring of the detention centres for foreigners, as well as the normalization of hot returns. In short, of those dusts, the muds of the murders of El Tarajal. I insist, nothing was isolated or anything was casual. At that time there was still a remnant of progressiveism, which was the jurisdiction of universal justice. You will remember that, thanks to the fact that we had a still uncut scenario, Judge Garzón was able to do what he did successfully with regard to the investigation of the Pinochet case and will also remember the cases of Scilingo and Cavallo. All that was possible because the scissors of the year 2009 had not yet appeared. It wasn't casual, obviously. They will also recall the pressure of the United States following the murder of Xose Couso in 2003 in Iraq. Nothing was isolated or casual, so one wonders how it is possible that a democracy such as the Spanish, young woman, who would have had to feel very close to the victims all over the world, the result of the violation of human rights, would behave so blindly in respect of those human rights. There is no explanation, unless we have to resort to two popular aphorisms that illustrate this situation: There is no richer than the new and there is no worse Christian than the convert. Obviously, as in so many other areas, then the People's Party ended and won. In fact, the People's Party ended and won - it beat us all, you and us, it beat us all - with the 2014 reform, defeating the freedoms and rights that so much effort and so much suffering required. From its Asylum Act to the brutal and inoperative action of the Spanish Government today in the face of the humanitarian crisis of refugees. About 200,000 Catalans have recently manifested themselves in Barcelona because Catalonia wants to be a host country and instead the Spanish Government is inoperative and insensitive to this frightening crisis. In short, nothing is accidental, note that this behavior of the Spanish Government with regard to human rights - I speak of the current Government - also has its projection within the State cutting freedoms, cutting civil rights, i.e. the law gags, and of course jaque mate - jaque mate, I insist - to universal justice. Today universal justice is finished in the Spanish State. We are set up in the almost impossible situation that crimes committed outside the limits of the Spanish State can be tried, and this is evident because there is also a need for competition: that the person responsible must be Spanish or foreign, that he has acquired nationality after the offence, that the act is punishable at the place of execution, that the aggrieved person or the prosecutor's office lodge a complaint with the courts - nothing of popular accusation - and that the offender has not been acquitted, pardoned or punished abroad. And to top it off we had to suffer the shame of how they imposed, the People's Party, the abandonment of the causes that were already being dealt with. They'll remember. They will recall that case against former leaders of the Chinese Communist Party accused of having violated human rights and crimes against humanity in Tibet. The pressure from the Chinese Government caused the People's Party, of course, to bow. Or they will also remember the opportunity we had to be able to judge former SS members who had been guards in the extermination camps where so many Republicans, Spanish and Catalans, were exterminated. And as this was a problem for the Spanish administration, what the People's Party did was to charge itself with universal justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. The Catalan Republicans stand in their day against the reforms of 2009 and 2014, which is why we aspire to be able to reverse everything lost. We also, you know, aspire to a Catalan republic that brings to the world a constitutional text involving even its own pertussis in the commitment to make universal justice triumph. But we are proudly concerned to also contribute to making it triumphant in the Spanish State because the cause of human rights does not concern nations, does not concern States, but concerns our own human condition. That a relatively young democracy such as the Spanish one, in 2017 does not commit itself to guaranteeing universal justice questions the same democratic quality of the Spanish state and the vaticine, if not corrected, an immediate future problematic that will impact on the quality of the democratic values of the new generations and will consolidate the trivialization of human rights. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you have the key. We know that we cannot count on the People's Party at all because they have a different political culture than ours, because they have also demonstrated it and are demonstrating it day by day. But you have the key now to regain universal justice and turn the Spanish state into a democracy committed to the persecution of genocide. And I wish we could have a dialogue. We would like to be able to dialogue in the same way that we are now dialogueing, because we will open the presentation, you will have some objectives and we will have others, but we will be dialogueing and working together, and we will see what horizon we reach. In addition, we want to have a dialogue in other areas that revolve around the same problem; that is, today we should have introduced, if the Government had not vetoed it, a bill that went beyond the Memory Act, so that the victims of Francoism are truly recognized and repaired; and we should find ourselves in the repeal of the Law on Mordality, and we should find ourselves in the amendment of the Asylum Act. In short, you have the key to decide whether this Spanish democracy chooses the path of excellence or whether it is definitively installed in the low cost. We therefore welcome the fact that they are voting in favour of our proposal for a law and we urge all progressive forces, the comrades of Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the comrades of the PNV, all progressive forces, since there is a correlation of favorable forces in order to be able to reverse everything that the right has imposed on us in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u28	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are dealing with a recurring matter in the General Courts over the past few years. The proposal put forward by Mr Tardà has an impact on some of the approaches which are not very new in this forum. Here the concerns for universal justice appeared when the Government promoted the approval of our procedural system to what was already being done in other major European countries and adapted our legal framework to the international standards and conventions of which Spain is a signatory. This approval - we have just heard it - does not serve for Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, which tries to reverse it by re-editing the socialist attempt at the end of 2014 to amend a law that had been reformed that same year in order to circumscribe the extension of jurisdiction outside our borders to the areas provided for by law that should be undertaken in compliance with the international conventions and commitments made by Spain. At the Forum we disagree with this consideration, because if we now go back to 2009, if we accept that from Spain we can enter judicially into the sovereignty of another State, we will be laying the groundwork for serious problems arising from reciprocal behaviors that, in addition, will surely come from countries with a lot of democracy of mouth and propaganda and no democracy of facts and rights. Does this mean that in Spain we must avoid the fight against genocide and other criminals in the worst country? Impunity with your actions? Not at all. No impunity, no immunity. In fact, Spain supported and ratified the UN initiative to create the International Criminal Court, which entered into force in 2002 and has made a historic leap towards the universalization and protection of human rights. This is the first permanent supranational court to prosecute and punish those responsible for crimes against humanity, genocide and war crimes committed by individuals. It is paradoxical, Mr Tardà, that you and your autonomous partners of Junts pel. Yes, the alimon continually put in sulfide the most sacred rules of our legal system, beginning with the very Spanish Constitution, doubt now, sow suspicion and malice of the democratic quality of our justice, to the point of prescribing that it must be magnified and raised our moral height in the collective commitment to the defense of human rights, as if Spain would avoid issues such as the fight against the most serious crimes of international relevance. But no, in the face of genocides, satraps and other criminals, it is worth recently showing the pronouncement last week of former presidents of the Government of Spain very distant ideologically, from the right and the left, or how a few months ago in this House a large majority of Members of Parliament positioned themselves, in the face of totalitarian persecutions, in defense of freedom. I will vote against this consideration, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u30	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, society in general and legal operators have become convinced that our criminal law is highly over-retrofitted. It is a criminal right, that of the code, excessive for the abundance of raging types, of undetermined writings, of behaviors that sometimes, because of their prolificity, bring into a state of perplexity anyone who must understand that one's behaviors are to be guided by the reading of these types. In short, we have a Penal Code that has been drafted in legislative patches, often moved by a situation in which media emergencies are thought to be the first, sometimes also because one wants to confuse partisan interests with general interests or also simply because majorities are used to impose restrictions, fundamental rights and freedoms. But if, as we now have the Penal Code, we must question ourselves in this legislature what we are going to do, how we are going to take it to the path of proportionality, I understand, however, that there is a broad consensus in society that there is a series of crimes that attack the human race and that must be prosecuted anywhere and at any time, whether Spanish or foreign, who committed them. When we talk about genocide, terrorism, torture, trafficking in human beings, violence against women, when we talk about these conducts and many others contained in that bill, we understand that the best thing our State can do is to put its judicial apparatus at the service of the persecution of all these infamous acts. In Spain we have more than 5,500 judges and magistrates, supported by 2,500 prosecutors, with the collaboration of around 4,500 lawyers from the Administration of Justice and thousands and thousands of officials who serve justice every day. Let us also put that machinery at the service of the general interests, not only within our borders, but in the world. Compromise will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u32	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. From the Democratic Party we also want to explain our absolute commitment to the improvement of universal justice. We appreciate the introduction of this bill that has been made today by Esquerra Republicana and we will vote in favour of its amendment, because not only the current law, which was adopted in 2009 without any parliamentary consensus, was an improvised, technically deficient and accelerated amendment, but we want to amend it, above all, because it is a clear step backwards in the defence of human rights. Universal jurisdiction is a conquest of the victims in the face of impunity, however, the current law closes the door to the persecubility of the crimes of torture, genocide, war crimes, against humanity, and some, as has been said, gave everything to the action of the International Criminal Court. A few days ago, in Barcelona, the President of the International Criminal Court asked for help, she said: We cannot do everything, we need the cooperation of the courts of the Member States, because the persecubility of crimes that refer to the horrific crimes to which universal justice affects cannot only be dealt with by the International Criminal Court. In Spain, the last reform that was approved, that of 2009, raised to the maximum the requirements of persecubility of these crimes, because not only the victim of the crime has to be Spanish but the person charged with the commission of this crime has to be in Spain, and the two requirements must also be met. This clearly violates not only human rights but also international treaties signed by the Spanish State. The current law adopted in 2014, the last of the People's Party, which has allowed - and has been said - has been the automatic termination of all the open cases on universal justice that were known in Spain and has therefore clearly opened the door to impunity for atrocious crime, and thus the door to justice has been closed for the benefit of those who have violated international law. It's unforgivable. Moreover, not having an effective universal justice directly undermines international cooperation because, ladies and gentlemen, the commission of such serious crimes must challenge any democratic society and because those accused of committing such a crime cannot pass through the international community with impunity. We will therefore give our support to the processing of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u35	Thank you very much, President. With regard to universal jurisdiction, which today brings to this House the proposal for a law of Esquerra, I shall begin by referring to what the Constitutional Court has been saying about it in some of its judgments. Thus, in 21/1997, it expresses the universal scope of Spanish criminal jurisdiction to deal with specific crimes in accordance with its gravity and international projection. Subsequently, in 87/2000, he said that universal jurisdiction was the universalization of the jurisdictional competence of States and their organs for the knowledge of certain facts on which persecution and prosecution were of interest to all States, so that their logical consequence was the concurrence of competences or the concurrence of competent spaces. Judgement 237/2005 - the most important, in my view - states that the submission of jurisdiction to prosecute international crimes such as genocide or terrorism to the concurrence of national interests in the terms of the Supreme Court - as we shall see later - is not fully conciliatory with the foundation of universal jurisdiction. And he continues to state: The international and cross-border persecution that the principle of universal justice seeks to impose is based solely on the particular characteristics of the crimes subjected to it, whose damage, paradigmatically in the case of genocide, transcends the specific victims and reaches the international community as a whole. Consequently, his persecution and punishment constitute not only a commitment but also a shared interest of all States, as we said in Judgement 87/2000, whose legitimacy, therefore, does not depend on the further particular interests of each State. Similarly, the concept of universal jurisdiction under current international law is not based on connection links based on particular State interests, citing fortiori, as a major argument, the resolution adopted by the Institute of International Law in Krakow on 26 August 2005, in which, after highlighting the above-mentioned commitment of all States, universal jurisdiction in criminal matters is defined as the competence of a State to prosecute and, if found guilty, to punish the perpetrators regardless of the place of commission of the offence and without regard to any nationality, active or passive link, or other criteria of jurisdiction recognized by international law. These statements of the Constitutional Court, in particular the last, that of Judgement 237/2005, were being revised in turn - and this is important - a judgement of the Supreme Court and another judgement of the National Court of 2003, in which, on the occasion of a complaint concerning genocide, torture and terrorism in Guatemala, the National Court intended to incorporate into the law the original Organic Law of the Judiciary incorporating universal justice without limitation - the principle of subsidiarity as an interpretative criterion, and the Supreme Court, by revising this ruling of the National Court, intended to incorporate points of connection; in particular, it said and justified the Supreme Court: It is not for each State, in particular, to unilaterally address the stabilization of the global order. The exercise of universal jurisdiction shall be legitimate only where the said point of connection exists, which must have a meaning equivalent to the criteria which, recognised by national law or treaties, permit the extraterritorial extension of jurisdiction. In this regard, the Supreme Court called for three points of connection: whether the alleged author was in Spanish territory or whether the victims were Spanish or another point of direct connection with national interests, precisely the points of connection which the Socialist Party introduced in its 2009 reform when amending article 23, paragraph 4. However, the Constitutional Court, in 2005, contradicts this view of the Supreme Court to incorporate points of connection and the Supreme Court states: In the case of genocide, its convention establishes the principle of universal persecution and avoidance of impunity for such crimes under international law. This principle governs the spirit of the conventions and is even part of the jus cogens, i.e. compulsory law, customary international law. In addition, he recalls that seven Supreme Court judges signed a particular vote against this claim by the majority to incorporate points of connection which, as I say, then the Socialist Party incorporated into its 2009 reform. The Constitutional Court cites as an example those countries that do not link their universal jurisdiction to national ties to Germany, and states that in its 2002 Code of Crimes of International Law, in order to adapt German law to the Statute of the International Court, it provides in its article 1 that its precepts shall apply to crimes covered by it as genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, even when the crime is committed abroad and has no connection with Germany. The Constitutional Court concludes, in the face of the Supreme Court's claim for points of connection, that: to the extent that it seeks to unite the common interest to avoid impunity for crimes against humanity with a specific interest of the State in the protection of certain purposes, it relies on hard-to-conciliate assets on the basis of the institution of universal jurisdiction, which de facto gives a practical abrogation of universal jurisdiction. The Constitutional Court's assertions regarding the root incompatibility between universal jurisdiction and the establishment of points of connection with national interests. With regard to the complaint by the National Court, which demanded the existence of a principle of subsidiarity, the Constitutional Court also rejects it flatly, saying that the only limit should be - I am talking about first-degree crimes - the thing judged. Another thing is the establishment - he continues to affirm - of a rule of attendance before the concurrence of jurisdictions in order to avoid a duplicity of proceedings and the violation of the principle of non bis in idem, so it is essential a rule of priority, for an elementary procedural reasonableness and criminal policy, decanting the high court for the locus deliciti, that is, instead of commission of the facts, for its classic acquis in international criminal law. The criteria of this jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court of 2005 regarding Organic Law 6/1985 are subsequently amended by this Parliament, as it said, when the Socialist Party adopts in Law 1/2009 those limitations that had been rejected by the Constitutional Court itself. Finally, with Law 1/2014 the People's Party totally restricts universal jurisdiction beyond the criteria permitted by international law. These two reforms became a cover, since the first was an amendment to a bill on the judicial office and, the second, a bill by the People's Parliamentary Group that supported the Government of the State at that time. Both reforms have eluded - and this is important - the reports of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Council of State and the Office of the Prosecutor on the impact of this reform on universal jurisdiction, despite the debate they have generated in this regard. This model of elaboration and circumvention of relevant legal opinions, together with the perception that the principle of universal jurisdiction was being distorted, prompted, as we all know, a broad social rejection and even more intense - that is true - with the reform of the People's Party than with that of the Socialist Party. The assessment that the reform of the Socialist Party deserves is negative - we have already said this - because it distorts the principle of universal jurisdiction, and the reform carried out by the People's Party in Law 1/2014 takes one step further and restricts it completely by limiting it and establishing criteria not provided for in international law. I'm finishing up, President. Amnesty International notes that universal jurisdiction in the prosecution of crimes under international law has been severely affected by Organic Law 1/2014, which is contrary to that principle of international law. It is summarized as follows: Faced with the universality of judicial jurisdiction to prosecute crimes under international law, Organic Law 1/2014 introduces a detailed wording of restrictive assumptions for each offence. And he adds: In addition, unlike previous laws, such assumptions are more restrictive than the criteria laid down by the obligations of international law binding on Spain. Amnesty International is basically referring, as I have already said, to the requirements of persecubility, that is, the cumulative requirement that the victim be Spanish, that the author be Spanish or habitual resident or that he is in Spain and that his extradition has not been denied. Moreover, the popular accusation, as has already been said, is abolished. Finally, I conclude with a brief reflection on the double standard highlighted by the reforms of the 2009 and 2014 law. While the universal jurisdiction of the Spanish criminal courts...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u36	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u37	Yeah, I'm finishing up. While the universal jurisdiction of the Spanish criminal courts was aimed at prosecuting third world countries, Spain boasted of its leadership. However, when it came to prosecuting countries and citizens of the first world, the Socialist Party first began to distort the principle of universal jurisdiction and, subsequently, the People's Party, to restrict it. We will support the proposal. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u38	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that I will not start this intervention by affixing to Mr de Esquerra Republicana who, with eight Members, wants to amend an organic law. I am not going to start by telling you that you have not consulted with the rest of the groups to arrive here with a joint agreement, as you have done on the occasion of the previous consideration of the proposal for a law. [[Applauds]] We absolutely respect the political initiative capacity of each parliamentary group, as that is one of the main rights of each of the 350 Members of this House. As I say, then, even if you are only eight, a minority group, we like to respect minorities and we recognize their right today to promote this reform that affects a fundamental or essential part of an organic law, the Organic Law of the Judiciary. We share part of the argument behind this initiative and you know it. On the 9th day, in the Committee on Justice, a majority agreement was reached, of which only the People's Parliamentary Group was excluded, to call for the amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which you bring here today in the form of a proposal for a law, and to regain the universal jurisdiction that the March 2014 reform of the People's Party practically repealed. There was therefore also an agreement in a Commission, but I say again that we respect its capacity for legislative initiative, as it cannot be otherwise. What we would like is for others also to have that capacity for respect when it is others who do their work and when it is others who use their right of legislative initiative. The reform that you propose - you say in the final paragraph of the explanatory statement - aims at enabling the Spanish judges and courts, as far as international crimes are concerned, to exercise their jurisdiction regardless of the nationality of the victims or the place where the alleged crimes were committed. This practically turns the Spanish courts into a sort of universal courts with no limits and no shortcuts of any kind in relation to these crimes. I recognize that this causes us to feel found. On the one hand, it is obviously a type of crime that the first moral principle that any Democrat has indicates must be prosecuted anywhere and under any conditions. But there is also the clash with another principle, with the principle of reality, because under no circumstances do we want to generate frustration in people who may think that Spanish courts and tribunals today have the capacity to prosecute any kind of crime anywhere in the universe with the means at their disposal. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain and the Spanish Administration of Justice believe that they do not have that capacity today. It is the place where there are more outstanding cases for every hundred inhabitants of the European Union, being only exceeded by Italy, Portugal and Slovenia, and where the average waiting for the resolution by lawsuit in a court is higher, of 500 days. We therefore believe that what needs to be done - and we have thus brought it to the agreement with the People's Party - is a reform of our administration of justice and an intense investment in material and human resources; then, if necessary, we will be able to express to the limit the capacities of our administration of justice. However, as I said to you, we do share the spirit behind this reform, which is to reverse what seems to us to be unjust reform of March 2014, perpetrated by the People's Party alone on that occasion, and which drove away the reform of November 2009, which had indeed been a reform agreed by a group of parties that made up a large majority in this House. This reform adapted the wording of article 23 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary to the criteria used by the countries of our environment, to the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court and, as has already been mentioned here, to the principle of subsidiarity, a principle which conditioned the competences of our courts to the fact that in another competent country or in the framework of an international court no other investigation procedure had been initiated for the same facts; that is to say, it was conditional on criminal prejudice, which we consider reasonable, in principle. In addition, a number of budgets and links were established with our country, which we believe were sufficiently broad to allow the prosecution of these crimes by the Spanish courts in circumstances that would guarantee a minimal connection with our country. It therefore seems to us that the most sensible and reasonable thing would be to reverse that unacceptable reform of March 2014 and return to the previous situation, to the wording of article 23 existing after the reform of November 2009. This is exactly the same as we defended just ten days ago in the Committee on Justice, and it is therefore going to be our position in this debate. We are not going to block the procedure, we are not going to oppose the procedure for this proposal, but what I am announcing is that in the process of amendments we will try to bring this reform into line with this position which I have just said, and which, on the other hand, was the one which had obtained a very majority agreement in the Committee on Justice when this issue was discussed. In conclusion, I would like to refer to two issues that have been mentioned and which also have to do with the administration of justice and how justice has been administered in our country. I turn to the spokesman for the People's Group, Mrs Escudero, who said that the People's Party had not pardoned under Mariano Rajoy's presidency to any political office. [[Show a photocopy]] You not only pardoned a position of yours, but you did so with a position of Convergence i d'Unió from the time of Jordi Pujol, in the year 2012: to Mr Josep Maria Servitje, for the case of Treball. [[Applauds]] I guess they'll know him. Furthermore, bear in mind the importance of the issues we have discussed here. Only six days ago, the Government pardoned six Rota City Council officials for political positions, in particular for the Uniform case, including an ex-Conseil of the Rota People's Party. We are talking about something that happened not long ago, but barely six days ago. [[Applauds]] That is why the reform we discussed earlier is important. Finally, I will address the gentlemen of Esquerra. Mr Tardà said in his speech that his aspiration is to turn Catalonia into a host country. We, from Citizens, know it well: Catalonia is already a host country, a great host country; of course we know it. It is a host land and it has been for a very long time, practically throughout your history, but curiously you, who come today to defend this principle of universal justice, are the same who are promoting a process of independence that wants to make foreigners in your land half the Catalans. [[Applauds]] That's right, you guys. Therefore, the first thing you could do with those good intentions would be, as I say, to apply them precisely to those Catalans whom you want to turn into foreigners in your own land. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u40	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Moya Matas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. We see more and more in the media how we talk about the brand Spain, a brand that in theory is a reference of quality in circumstances, in facts and in products that internationally show its Spanishness. It is often difficult for us to discover this privilege of the brand Spain, but if in any way we could affirm the existence of the brand Spain since 1985 it was in that we were an international reference in universal justice, in universal jurisdiction. Article 23 contained in the first version of the Organic Law of the Judiciary established a regulation that was a true international reference, established a regulation of international prestige, obviously applied with the protection of magnificent professionals in the world of justice - lawyers, judges, prosecutors -, connoisseurs of the international order. This did not cease to be paradoxical in a country which, on the other hand, neglected - as it continues to neglect today - the crimes against humanity perpetrated during Francoism, crimes which today remain unpunished and still unpunished under that jurisdiction, a jurisdiction which with regard to universal justice was a benchmark in the international sphere, matched by very few laws, that of Belgium, that of Denmark and a few more. Spain therefore merely fulfilled its international commitments, such as the Geneva Convention, which imposes on every State the persecution and prosecution of more serious international crimes; or also in accordance with the Statute of the International Criminal Court, the preamble of which recalls that it is the duty of every State to exercise criminal jurisdiction against those responsible for such crimes. In the same vein, the Convention against Torture requires every State to detain any person who has participated in crimes of torture within its State. This was covered by article 96 of the Spanish Constitution itself, which states that international conventions are fully incorporated into the Spanish legal system without being abrogated, altered or minimized by the establishment of any type of requirement that is not expressly covered by the treaty in question. In this way the Spanish courts were able to open cases against genocides such as that of Tibet, Rwanda, Sahara or Guatemala and also to know cases such as the most serious murder of the Spanish chamber José Couso in Iraq, and international landmarks were obtained, such as the arrest of dictator Pinochet. However, all this prestige went to the fore, as you well know, in 2009, when the Government of the Socialist Party passed Organic Law 1/2009. It wasn't ballad, it wasn't random. Remember that at that time it coincided with the decision of the National High Court to investigate the bombing of the Al Daraj neighbourhood in Gaza. This coincided temporarily and was not just a random coincidence, but it was sad to see that a government like Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's, so brave to withdraw the Spanish troops from Iraq, so bold as to carry out this act of bravery, on the other hand, prevented the criminal prosecution of crimes as serious as this bombing in the Palestinian neighbourhood. In this way, the reform of the Socialist Government of 2009 prevented the criminal prosecution of the most serious crimes under international law, such as war crimes, genocide, crimes against humanity, torture or enforced disappearance, which - let us recall - must be prosecuted regardless of the place of commission, as required by international treaties, all of which were ratified by the Spanish State. In this way, the principle of universal justice was limited to unusual assumptions, such as the fact that the accused found themselves in Spanish territory, whether the victims were Spanish or whether there was what comes to be called a relevant connection. If in 2009 the cause of this fall in universal justice was to avoid a conflict with the State of Israel, in 2014 it was to avoid a conflict with the State of China. By the way, China still holds 20% of Spain's foreign debt today. The international arrest warrants issued by the National High Court on prominent leaders of the Chinese Government for the case of the Tibetan genocide - that is, by the way, more than 1,200,000 victims in the case of the Tibetan genocide - provoked the reform again, the lowering of universal jurisdiction by Organic Law 1/2014, which also came through the usual emergency route that so much liked the legislator, the People's Party, during the 10th Legislature; an emergency route that allowed him to dispense with the previous reports of the General Council of the Judiciary or the Council of State, and in fact came to an end in practice with the principle of universal justice, which, as we said, had already been curtailed since 2009. In this way, article 23 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary established a practically insurmountable catalogue, which in fact prevents the Spanish courts from being able to deal with crimes of special gravity that have occurred beyond our borders. This implies non-compliance after non-compliance. This implies a breach of international obligations, as we have said, a breach of obligations established on the basis of conventions ratified by the Spanish State. It represents a very serious transfer of sovereignty over human rights, which is particularly serious, because it neglects even Spanish victims of acts that have taken place abroad. It imposes a subsidiary nature of universal jurisdiction that de facto contravenes the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, ratified by the Spanish State in 2000, which provides that the jurisdiction of the International Court shall be complementary to the jurisdiction of States parties. The Constitutional Court itself has established that such subsidiarity constitutes a violation of the right to effective judicial protection under article 24 of the Constitution. In addition, it distinguishes first and second-class Spanish victims, since it gives priority to victims of terrorism over victims of other acts, so that when a victim of a terrorist crime is a victim, Spanish courts may intervene, but not in the case of a victim of other crimes such as torture, enforced disappearance, war crimes, genocide, etc., for which a virtually insurmountable catalogue of procedural requirements is established. It also eliminates the exercise of the popular accusation, which, as you know, is protected by article 125 of the Constitution and leaves the monopoly of criminal proceedings in the prosecutor's office. And it is well known that in cases where human rights actions have always been successful, or on most occasions, there was a human rights association that has allowed the actions to go further. Yes, it may be possible to exercise the particular charge, but it is frankly illusory to claim that a victim of a crime of this gravity has the capacity to appear before the courts of the Spanish State and make the charge. All this ended by a transitional provision ordering the termination of all cases opened as long as the existence or not of the requirements of the reformed article 23 is not established, a substantive retroactivity that implies an absolutely intolerable interference of the legislator in the judiciary. In addition to all this, the reform of the People's Party suffers from a lack of expertise, as it prevents the persecution of drug trafficking vessels that are circling international waters, unless it is found that they are aimed at the Spanish State or there are Spanish crews. Apart from this case, these ships will remain in impunity. For practical purposes, the entry into force of this reform also led to the release and escape of persons imprisoned for drug trafficking offences on the high seas. To this day, it also prevents the Spanish courts from being able to protect the relatives of the victims of the Germanwings' intentional catastrophe, who cannot be protected by the Spanish courts. The collateral consequence of all this, ladies and gentlemen, is that the National Court - as you know, an emergency court, heir to the Franco Public Order Court - if in anything it has, that we question it, legitimacy to exist is to pursue these very serious crimes against human rights and not that this jurisdictional anomaly that is the National Court is dedicated, as is more and more usual, to pursue such harmless conduct - we will like it or not, but harmless - such as breaking photographs, burning flags or making gastronomical metaphors of tortillas and eggs. For all this, we will support the consideration of the proposal for a law - I finish, Madam President - and, once in the process, we will be pragmatic, we will attend to reasons of political arithmetic and, although we would like to return to the situation of article 23 before the 2009 reform, we will add wills - wills that have been expressed here: the will of the Socialist Party, the will of Citizens - in order at least to recover universal justice in terms less harmful than those found today. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u42	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Rodríguez Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u43	Thank you, President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the introduction of this bill so as to be able to repeal the last amendment on universal jurisdiction that was made by a single parliamentary group, by the People's Party, and with the vote against the other political groups. I announce to you, as we have already had occasion to discuss in the Committee on Justice, that in the parliamentary process we will work together to restore the situation to the legislative state in which universal jurisdiction was found in Spain after this disastrous and erroneous reform carried out by the People's Party in 2014. I would like to say to you with all due respect that in some of the speeches by the political groups I have noticed that their political interest in equalizing the reform carried out by the Socialist Party in 2009 and that carried out by the People's Party has made them lose some of their legal reason. Nothing has to do with both reforms. The question I would like to ask you is that if, in fact, the reform carried out in 2009 by a socialist Government would have strangled the exercise of universal jurisdiction, would that reform have been necessary, which without a majority, without consensus and without debate took place in 2014? By the way, he is not now the representative of the PNV, but I would like to say that since all of his speech has devoted it to the 2009 reform, it is not comparable either the substance or the form, because the amendment that amended article 23 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary in 2009 has the signature of the Basque Nationalist Party. [[Show a document]] When I see you, I'll give you the document. Ladies and gentlemen, universal jurisdiction, as has been repeatedly said in this rostrum, is a principle of international law which legitimises States so that they can intervene in those crimes, in those crimes which by their extreme gravity transcend transnational borders. The perimeter to legitimize the intervention of domestic courts has two areas of competence, one which points to the hard core of what we can call international criminal law - the crime of genocide, the crime against humanity and war crimes - whose special gravity has two elements: that the violated legal assets affect many communities, entire peoples, nations, ethnic or religious groups and that their perpetrators, their perpetrators, are usually protected or protected by Governments or a State sphere, thus legitimizing impunity that harms the entire international community. The other area of competence is what we call second-degree international crimes, which by its very way of operating its sphere of action is outside the borders and is done through international organizations, such as terrorism, piracy and the crime of trafficking in human beings. Precisely, what could be done in our country and we were at the head of international jurisdiction after the 2009 reform was that in Spain national courts could prosecute and initiate cases against this hard core of international criminal law, genocide, humanity and war crimes. That is precisely the objective of the 2014 reform of the People's Party, that of preventing such prosecutions of crimes from entering the National High Court. Because the persecution of these crimes is undoubtedly the one that generates diplomatic problems for States; diplomatic problems that must be bravely assumed in order to fight against the crimes against which every Democrat must be at the forefront. See if that was the objective that in Spain, in order to proceed against the hard core of these crimes and by virtue of a jurisprudence of more than twenty-four years in the exercise of universal jurisdiction, we established a link of connection or relevant interest with the Spanish State, always and in any case and not cumulatively when the victim of such crimes was of Spanish nationality - either because it was of birth either because he had later acquired that nationality - or, regardless of the active legitimacy of the victim, if the alleged perpetrator was, even for some moment, in Spanish territory, making a change of plane, for example. Here, in Spain, there were open cases that have been cited: the indictment of five senior Chinese government officials accused of genocide for the invasion of Tibet, the Couso case, the Ellacuría case was open. Of course Spain was at the head of the persecution of these most serious crimes! And what does the People's Party do? Just an express reform that we denounce from the very first moment, remember. I told them in this rostrum that they had used a bill to prevent the Government, through a bill, from requesting the mandatory regulatory reports required by article 561 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary, which provides for a report to be issued by the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of State when reforms are made that affect fundamental rights. They did so quickly because we started processing on 17 January - I remember perfectly because I was in this rostrum - and we finished it on 12 March, affecting the fundamental rights of all Spaniards. What you do in this reform is to eliminate passive legitimation, the fact that the victim of these crimes is Spanish no longer has effect, can no longer be prosecuted, you cannot file a complaint with the National Court because it only serves as a requirement that the alleged perpetrator not only be found, but that he is legally resident in Spain and that, if he is not resident, he is in Spain and a decision has been issued rejecting an extradition order. If no one has asked, undoubtedly the principle of connection disappears. The principle of concurrence, rather than subsidiarity, when we state that if there is another trial opened in any other jurisdiction, it must be an effective persecution so that there are no mock trials that can prevent or circumvent the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, disappears. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, that is the only objective of this disastrous reform, which is tangled in an unbearable legislative technique, which today establishes in article 23 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary three categories of victims and seventeen cases of persecution in order to avoid in substance that universal jurisdiction, within the hard core of international law, is effective in Spain in order to avoid diplomatic problems, problems of economic or political interests with other States, undoubtedly turning universal justice into a commodity, but with human rights the international community cannot play. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is also not worth it that the International Criminal Court now has jurisdiction to prosecute these crimes because it has exactly the same jurisdiction as when it was created in 1998. What is happening, ladies and gentlemen, and you know it, is that the International Criminal Tribunal does not recognize the competence of the great nations such as the United States, China or Israel and therefore cannot act. Even when, today, in the Security Council, at the United Nations, some States, such as Spain, have called for the serious crimes of genocide committed in the Syrian war to be brought before the International Criminal Court, those countries that do not recognize the competence of the International Tribunal, such as Russia and China, using the right of veto, are opposing us to bring this case before the courts. Therefore, the existence of the International Criminal Tribunal obliges us not only to assume the competence - which we have already done - but also to act when these crimes cannot be known by this high court because of problems of non-recognition of this institution. I'm done, President. The Socialist Party is going to vote today in favour of its admission to procedure because from the very beginning we opposed the reform of 2014, because we went to the Constitutional Court and are appealing for violation of articles 24, 117 and 125 of popular action, and because we have put forward a bill to amend this harmful reform. The other day, in the Committee on Justice, we reached a meeting point between all the political forces, so we will certainly be working positively in the parliamentary process so that what is announced today we can celebrate it shortly in this House: the repeal of the reform carried out on 12 March 2014, which was the sign of death of what had been a sign of freedom, justice, which made all Spaniards proud to belong to this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u44	For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u45	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Before I started on the subject, I wanted to address Mr Prendes because he has drawn much attention to me. He must not have been very happy with his leader's intervention so that he had to nuance some things. [[Rumors]] Look, it is very clear your intervention so that we say here, loud and clear too, that we have to work rigorously, and those cases to which you have referred are not political and political corruption. If there is any doubt, we will have to see how we define political corruption. That was what we thought we would do in the Commission and in the subcommittee. You have skipped some step than another, and in the latter case you cited all the mandatory reports were favourable and the report of the city council, of all political groups of all colors, was favourable. Better to speak with rigor. [[Applauds]] Already on the subject that we have, on the subject of the proposal for a law, we continue to attend a great dose of cynicism this afternoon, forgive me for saying so. It gives equal legal certainty, it gives equal rigour and normative changes, there are no rules of play and although we have agreed to work first in subcommission to address a review of the fact - the proposal for improvements, the implementation of new instruments - we advance with an interested proposal, that of Republican Left in this case, plagued with common places, obsessions, half truths or omissions to continue encouraging the idea that the People's Party is like Eva and the apple, the cause of all evils. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case, and you will hear it many times, it will become my favorite phrase. But there is another favorite phrase that is a leitmotiv, and that is that every human work, and the laws are, is perfectable. Therefore, the most appropriate thing - at least my approach to life - is to go learning more than teaching and agreeing rather than demonstrating. That is why I want to make some brief ideas clear. First, there is no international norm that obliges States to incorporate the principle of universal justice. It is not true that, when a principle of universal justice is incorporated into Spain, to accept the principle in one way or another constitutes a violation of international law or, as has been said here, to liquidate the so-called universal justice. It is not true that with a certain way of regulating universal jurisdiction in Spain we end all the evils and imperfections of the judicial systems of the world. I wish! Nor is it true that, thanks to an unlimited principle of universal jurisdiction in Spain, we can put an end to all the dictators, genocides and human rights violators of the world. I wish it were possible in this way and I wish that some of the groups that have shown so forcefully apply their arguments to themselves not to try to repeal the anti-terrorist pact or to justify terrorists and dictators, right, Mr Moya? [[Applauds]] It is not true that with this bill we are able to resolve outstanding cases of prosecution or appropriate prosecution in other countries. They talk about very serious crimes, but then they don't want to hear anything about applying to genocide and such execrable crimes the permanent prison reviewable. Mrs Rodríguez, if there is no recognition of the International Tribunal, imagine a unilateral decision by the Spanish State. Of course, I don't think we can overstep the effectiveness of that court. It is not true that this proposal for a law gives greater scope to the catalogue of crimes. It is not true that the current rules go against international norms and treaties, they are perfectly safeguarded in our law when there are such international commitments. It is not true that we are the great exception in dealing with the principle of universal jurisdiction in Europe and in the world. In the 2014 and 2015 reforms, in addition to those crimes that seem to be missing and that you are repeating a lot to raise the speaker, crimes related to corruption of foreign public agents, crimes against sexual freedom when the victims are minors, crimes related to gender violence, child abuse or sex tourism were included, all in implementation of the Convention against Torture or conventions of the Council of Europe and the OECD signed by Spain. The 2015 amendment to the Criminal Code also extended to other cases in the context of terrorism. On the other hand, there are limits to the exclusion of jurisdiction of Spanish courts in cases in which proceedings have been initiated by an international court or by the jurisdiction of the country in which the offences were committed or by the nationality of the person to whom the case is alleged. But our courts, and this is always omitted, will be able to act in cases where that foreign State does not want or is unable to carry out the investigation and prosecution in accordance with the criteria governing the International Tribunal. Is the current regulations in this area, as in others, perfectable? Yeah. Is there a desire from the Government of Spain and this group to improve it? Yeah. This proposal for a law, however, does not seek to improve it, but rather to return to a supposed place that we have abandoned, and that is not the case, of the countries in our environment, because it says that it does not meet the democratic and human rights demands. That's not true. This proposal is only intended to bring us back to the past, which was not always better. It intends to remove the three elements of limitation of the universal jurisdiction currently present and which were gradually defined from the implementation of six reforms, from 1999 to 2015; three limitations which are common in comparative law and are majority in national laws requiring some type of territorial connection, and the habitual residence, for example, is found in Belgium, Malta, the United Kingdom or Switzerland, to name a few. But most international treaties also include the presence of the alleged offender in the State of the forum, and the principle of subsidiarity or critical subsidiarity, in addition to national legislation, also in article 17 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court. Finally, national laws make the exercise of universal jurisdiction conditional on the decision of the prosecutor. Other countries too, not just ours. This is the case for Germany, Norway, Finland, Croatia, Canada or Australia. Our current legislation also admits the active legitimization of the victim. The aim of the last reforms, therefore, is not to be a matter of whim or the will to cut rights, as they strive to defend, but exclusively to eliminate the attraction effect that a regulation such as the original one in Spain, and which they now want to resurrect, simply because of the lack of equivalent in the international context, perhaps saving Argentina, was producing. It is legislation, that of the last amendment, which has tried to balance the regulation of what is to be an exception, insofar as it involves entering, into the competences of other States with the fight against impunity, which in no case has been renounced. Does the current article 23 of the Organic Law allow for technical improvements? Yeah. Is that the intention of the reform that they intend to take into account today? No, no, We are looking, as we have already advanced, for a return to a system that had already been limited by jurisprudence. Partly quoting case law with regard to different texts produces small monsters, small shadows, which is what has been done here this afternoon, and a practice that in comparative law determined a similar regulation that is now intended to be ineffective. They seek the return to a topic, complex, ineffective and unattainable model of absolute universal jurisdiction. This model is not the one that best balances respect for State autonomy, respect for domestic law, nor is it the one that best responds to the expectations created by the remedies available to national legislators and courts. What does your proposal, Mr Tardà, contribute to the reform of paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 23 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary? In the first of the points nothing, except to delete the term pardon, which does not cease to be a cause of extinction of criminal responsibility in all the systems, also in ours, in article 130.4 of the Criminal Code. The amendment to paragraph 3 also makes it possible to extend the catalogue of offences, which was extended in 14 and 15, and which the Government and this group believe today would still have to expand. Please note that, on the contrary, you set aside the offence of setting up an organization or criminal group for your criminal activity in Spain, and I do not think we can afford it today. Repealing this regulation is imposing an outdated model of universal jurisdiction on the international scene and also defrauding expectations that lead to large doses of mistrust. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how nice the link is, if there is no content in opening a package, we can hardly be satisfied by losing ourselves in inconsistent and falsified public debates. Their aim, their obsession, is to focus on point 4: go to the initial version with a capricious proposal for a list of crimes, because they don't care if we get a good reform. Systems of limited universal jurisdiction are widespread in the major countries of the world as well as in Belgium and Germany, which are wrongly cited in their explanatory statement. I'm finishing up, President. Finally, I would like to mention that they are trying to delete paragraph 6, trying to tacitly recover popular action, and they do not recognize that there is something very positive about what we incorporate, and that the victim is the one who can directly defend himself and that the prosecutor can intervene. But the prosecutor, moreover, does not have it as an option, it is mandatory, and anyone who has information, who has data, can provide it to the prosecutor and he will act. The public prosecution in these cases, in the words of Judge Joaquín Giménez, only entails an intolerable instrumentalization of the criminal process for purposes other than justice with intolerable wear and tear for legal operators and the judiciary itself. We're willing, on the line...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u46	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u47	In the line that we have marked among all, we are willing to work in the subcommittee to improve this rule, but not to support the goal that you have set yourselves, which is exclusively to destroy, not build, go backwards and generate false expectations for people. That's not improving justice in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u48	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u49	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left on the creation of the seasonal power contract. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u50	President, ladies, good afternoon, good afternoon. The gravity of the energy price problem that has already been dealt with in this House at consumer, private and user level is not lost to anyone. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u51	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u52	Today we want to bring here the vision of small businesses. The price of energy has become a major problem of economic competitiveness. In fact, Spanish SMEs pay for the most expensive energy in Europe, according to the latest Eurostat data. In order to reduce the electricity bill, the variable part of the bill has already been discussed in this House, which is the one that is referred, according to President Rajoy, to whether it rains a lot or whether the wind blows. The reality is much more complex, but as your ladies and gentlemen know, this is not our intention today; today we want to bring to debate the other part of the bill, with which, as if it were a taboo, there is no way to get involved: the fixed part, which is one of the untouchables of Minister Nadal. Some are still surprised that the complex regulation of the electricity sector does not take into account the real needs of SMEs, but our modest opinion is that the whole legal framework is designed precisely for that purpose, to take into account the profit needs of five companies against the needs of the rest. What we are discussing today is nothing more than a proposal to update a regulation of the last century that does not reflect something as basic as the temporary production and consumption needs of many companies. To explain the size of the problem, I propose just one example: an agricultural cooperative that needs to keep for a couple of months or three a refrigerated chamber to conserve and dispatch its harvest. This implies an increase in the power capacity and therefore of the applicable tariff. But not only for that two or three-month period, but you will have to assume the fee for the rest of the year, assuming a clearly unfair and often disproportionate cost. Apply the same to an operation that requires irrigation; idem idem for a hotel or a coastal campsite or, if you want, for a fairly standard medium-high-sized social health centre. What is the criterion applied by the current system that we have organized? It's called: it was there. It's as if paying the hotel bill will charge you the contents of the minibar. You'd say, hey, if I haven't touched the minibar. Sit down, the minibar was there. Energy costs are key to the competitiveness of businesses and it is unfair for SMEs to have to assume an electricity system designed for the five big ones not only from their pockets but above all from their competitiveness. For this reason, we think that the seasonal power contract would allow many SMEs to have, if not a better energy price, what would be missing, at least if they were allowed to adjust their electricity bill to their consumption needs, how? Only by changing a regulation that is not intended for the needs of consumers but to pay directly for the needs of operators, and this, ladies and gentlemen, would have to be brought to an end. This is not only what Esquerra thinks, but today we are honoured with his presence and support by people as authorized as the representatives of Pimec Energia and the National Federation of Businessmen of Electrical Installations and Telecommunications of Spain, Fenie. We fear what the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party will say to us, as the Minister has told us on other occasions, that in order for some companies to enjoy a high power for a few months, someone - the rest of you will say - must continue to maintain the infrastructure throughout the year. It's the mantra they're repeating to keep the Nadal dogma of power untouchability alive. In the end, an extension of the mini-bar joke - I resist calling it a joke because it's not very funny -. They've already told us about it on several occasions, and it still doesn't convince us. First, because we are convinced that it operates the so-called simultaneous factor of the electrical system among the different customers, and even if not so, together for the whole state there is an aggregate contracted power of about 160 gigawatts and a peak demand of less than 45. Therefore, there is sufficient margin without having to rush, there is no problem in this sense, on the contrary, 45 out of 160 gigawatts actually indicates the great problem. We have an oversized system that has been the fruit of years with erroneous price signals through remuneration that have created a giant that we cannot now maintain in the way of generating an overcost to the consumer. You, gentlemen of the Government, have a problem that needs to be numbered or otherwise you can only produce partial patches that do not go to the root and this GNP will be one more example. In conclusion, and in the absence of any arguments, the European Union's energy policy - Commissioner Arias Cañete was with us the other day to verify this - clearly indicates in the winter package that it must be placed at the centre of consumer policy decisions. Today you have the opportunity to demonstrate that for the case we are dealing with you are able to put small and medium-sized enterprises at the centre of a decision that is crucial to maintaining competitiveness. I'm warning navigators and I'm done. Today with the meaning of the PP vote we will know if you are more with SMEs and competitiveness or with the oligopoly of the big ones. Today we'll know if you send more Nadal or De Guindos. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u53	In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, I have the floor, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. The statements of the Minister of Energy who advised us two weeks ago to get used to having very high energy costs and to a dynamic with a lot of volatility in prices are still recent. It is urgent to correct this scenario and not to remain in the resignation to head the sad European record of the most expensive electricity tariffs while we export Spanish cheap electricity to France and Germany. Tariffs that do not penalise families, businesses, the basic sectors for our economy and also our industrial industries, which pose a serious threat to the relocation of their production, are essential and necessary. At the Forum we agree with this initiative because it would mean that companies can adjust the contracted demand according to the seasonality of their production cycle. This is equivalent to competitiveness for many sectors such as agriculture, tourism, food and also for our industries, which, as we have been reiterating, particularly those of intensive consumption, cannot compete on equal terms with other European countries and weighs on them, as I said before, the threat of relocation. I have tabled an amendment which complements the three points of the initiative advocated by Mr Capdevila and in which I call on the Government to draw up a strategic energy plan. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u55	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. There's one news I can't resist teaching and it's the one that says: 'Iberdrola's dome is aiming for a 115 million bonus in the midst of light controversy'. [[Shows a press headline]] That is to say, electricity has risen by 70% over the last ten years, the profits of large electricity companies have not stopped growing every year and all this has been on the backs of households and businesses, penalising them for competitiveness. Compromís will vote in favour of this proposal of common sense, because paying for what is used is paying for what is used, not for what is not used, paying the maximum power when needed and having the possibility to lower the power when not needed. Two practical examples that are general throughout the Spanish State: the agricultural cooperative Les Alboredes de la Jana, a cooperative that has an oil mill. The olive is ground for three months and the machinery is stopped for nine months. Why do they have to pay the maximum power if they don't need it? Another example: Cooperative Arrocera de Sueca, applicable in Andalusia and Catalonia as well. Rice is collected in two months, dried in the dryer for two months, no maximum potency is required for ten months. What do you have to pay for? All this because the electrics refuse to make the change to reduce power during the months that are not needed. I'm done. All these are added costs that burden the competitiveness of our companies and, therefore, farmers receive less money for their product and the same happens in many households. Therefore, noting that the benefits of electricity have not been affected, it is fair that these benefits are not alone on the backs of households and businesses. It is of justice that they are distributed among all and it is of justice that a contract of seasonal power is created for each one. It is, as Mr Holmes would say, elementary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u57	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa also has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, let me greet old acquaintances, the representatives of Pimec Energia who accompany us from the rostrum. A useful and effective industrial policy in favour of competitiveness is one that takes into account the moderation of energy prices, the taxation of companies by moderating corporate tax, the fight against lateness - another major initiative led by Pimec - and the internationalization of companies. In-depth reform is required on how energy is to be paid, on the price of energy and on how a clean bill of hidden taxes is to be made, which would mean that in the end we only pay 35% of energy when we pay our bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this Republican Left proposal is full of common sense and we will support it. It is a matter of paying for consumption and not for contracted power. It seems from a drawer that one has to pay for that spent, but this logic is not imposed on the invoice and on the industrial activity. The contracted power now has tips that increase the electrical bill. This is clearly seen in the tourism sector, in agriculture, in companies associated with refrigeration conservation, such as apple harvesting. Recruitment for a year when there are consumption peaks is a great injustice. We openly support this initiative and hope that it will be one more step in the thorough review of the energy system that is required in Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u59	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u60	Good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. I also want to begin my intervention by greeting the performance of Pimec, who is with us this afternoon. The non-legislative proposal of Esquerra Republicana raises a specific situation that affects many small and medium-sized enterprises, cooperatives and self-employed people who have a mainly seasonal activity in the context of a complex problem, such as the price of electricity and the regulation of the electricity system. [[The lady]] It is true that small and medium-sized enterprises, including consumers as a whole, suffer the highest levels of electricity prices throughout Europe. We are at the forefront of the four countries with the most expensive electricity and this has a serious impact on the competitiveness of companies, but also on the country's own social situation. During these years we have seen a marked increase in energy poverty, energy inequality. The price of electricity has even become a factor of impoverishment, a serious problem for small and medium-sized enterprises and an unfair situation for these seasonal activities, whether touristic, irrigation of certain types of seasonal crops or, as was said earlier, agricultural cooperatives. We have a socially, economically and environmentally inefficient energy system, with a very serious, unjustifiable and unjustified transfer of income from the majority of society to large electricity companies, a situation that is a real shame. We have one of the highest electricity prices in Europe and the benefits of electricity companies are also among the highest in Europe, electricity companies which also have little shame, the defachability of trying not to pay, by means of resources in the courts, even the social bonus, showing no social responsibility. The causes are known; from the marginalist electricity market, which overcompensates technologies such as hydroelectric and nuclear that are overly amortized, to the proper configuration of the electric tariff with the fixed part of the power term very high, not favoring precisely - but quite the contrary - efficiency and saving. The very non-legislative proposition in its explanatory statement says this: a savings of 10% only means a 5% reduction in the invoice; a sum of contracted power of 150 gigawatts, when the installed power is 110 and the demand reaches a maximum of 45 gigawatts. Therefore, there is a part for which it is paid that does not respond to real needs and that becomes a real gift to electricians. In short, we believe that this situation needs to change. The whole of the electricity system needs to be reviewed; not only is this question raised by the non-law proposal by Esquerra Republicana, but, in our view, the whole of the electricity system with its problems, the oligopoly situation of this system in which 95% of the domestic market is in the hands of large companies or its own tax system. Therefore, this poor regulation, which does not benefit citizens as a whole, but large companies, needs to be addressed urgently. It is also clear that the Government has no desire for reform or change; on the contrary. The minister has told us that we must resign and accept high energy prices. We agree with the PNL proposed by Squerra Republicana of the seasonal power contract. We understand that it is aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperatives and not at second homes and, in this regard, we have tabled an amendment to clarify it, because we believe that this is not at all the intention of the non-legislative proposal. But, in agreement, we are concerned that, if we do not tackle this structural reform of the energy system and of the energy market and of the electricity tariff, what is saved by certain sectors is paid by all consumers and customers. It is therefore important to place that proposal with which we agree in a general framework for the reform of the electricity system and of the electricity bill, reducing the power term and making an audit as a necessary step for the reform of the electricity system. Although an important improvement is proposed by Esquerra Republicana, both the reform of the electricity system and the new energy model that is essential in this country must be addressed. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u61	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u62	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the agri-food and tourism sectors are two of the most dynamic sectors within the Spanish economy. The former is clearly an exporter and has contributed to a stable balance of payments during the economic crisis. It is a sector that has incorporated great technological advances and with an enormous capacity to fix the population to the territory, a positive externality that we in the Socialist Parliamentary Group highly value. And what about the tourism sector, which has made remarkable progress in these hard years? However, both sectors can and must be more competitive, which requires, among other things, that they be able to efficiently manage the demand for electricity and be responsive to their needs. As you all know, energy is among the main factors that influence our country's competitiveness, but, quite contrary to what is desirable, the Spanish electric model is tremendously deficient and ends up being one of the fundamental elements that hinder the development of our economy and make it less competitive. Farms, agri-food companies, cooperatives and many tourist establishments have a purely seasonal economic activity; that is, part of the year has closed businesses or farms are out of business due to the pure natural cycle. However, the Electricity Act does not respond to the uniqueness of these sectors. The last reform of the electricity sector significantly increased the weight of the power contracted within the bill to the detriment of electricity consumption, that is, it increased the fixed part compared to the variable; therefore, it became a disadvantage for those who demand energy seasonally and a ballast for energy efficiency, because consuming more or less energy does not have an important weight in the final cost and, however, it does have the fixed term, which does not depend on the intensity of consumption. The Socialist Group agrees with the proposing group on the need for customers, especially tourism and agri-food SMEs, agricultural cooperatives and holders of agricultural holdings, to be able to hire power according to seasonal needs throughout the year. We propose to adopt the necessary legislative and regulatory measures to enable the contracted power to be flexible and adaptable to the real needs of economic activity, because it does not seem reasonable that the contracted power can only be changed once during the year. This restriction should be amended in order to promote savings and sustainability. This legal impediment makes it impossible to manage demand and electricity consumption that will help to improve the competitiveness of these sectors, nor does it help to achieve the energy efficiency objectives to which we have committed ourselves as a country, which, by the way, all indicates that we are not going to meet. There is no excuse not to do so, since technological advances already provide us with manageability through smart meters that allow us to operate on them in a very simple way. A specific contract is therefore perfectly feasible to reduce or increase the power contracted according to the time of year, taking into account production cycles in agriculture or holiday seasons in tourism. These sectors could optimise consumption rather than be penalized, as is the case right now, and the current legislation should help to make it possible, especially in a country like ours that needs to increase the competitiveness of its economy. In addition, in our amendment we have also urged the Government to provide more and better information to consumers about the concepts included in the tariff so that they can easily compare the offers that exist on the market. In short, what we are asking is to comply with the European directive on consumer rights, which is surprisingly not happening at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, working from the legislature to create a framework for improving energy efficiency, improving competitiveness in sectors as important as agriculture or tourism, should be the task of all of us here. That is why we are voting in favour of this Republican Left proposal from the Socialist Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u63	Thank you very much. The Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u64	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Thank you. We're back to the energy issue again. I have the feeling that it is going to be the legislature of the demand for energy patches. And I say that because it seems that no group, except the PP, likes electrical regulation. Each group we are detecting a number of deficiencies and needs and we are raising them through GNP or other figures: self-consumption, seasonal power contract, tariffs, electricity tax. And, of course, if all of them lead us to improve some of them at a higher cost to others because the government is not willing to change the energy policy based on the tariff deficit, we are clear. What we have arranged on the one hand we have arranged on the other, and here is where the real problem is: the need for reform in this field. Having said that and following the PNL presented about the creation of a seasonal power contract, I would like to spell out some of the statements made in it. The impact on the overprice we bear on electricity supply is mainly due to toll costs, but hiring the power of these tolls is no longer expensive for citizens and small businesses compared to medium and large ones. The greater the consumer and therefore the supply tension, the more expensive it is to hire the power. We would also have to talk about the partial exemption from electricity tax of up to 85%, which is not applied by the size of the consumer, but by activity. But without going into greater depth than if the justification is sufficient, from the implications it has for the system and from other considerations that should be analysed, from a legal point of view it would change the contractual scheme and put the consumer in a stronger position to be able to make their needs and costs more flexible compared to the current framework of contracting, where the legal certainty that gives the distributor the rigid commitment outweighs, without taking into account the needs of the customer and its consequences on the costs of production. In short, it is a question of being able to increase or decrease the power contracted in the industry without having to wait for a year to pass. This flexibility, as I said, would allow the power to rise and decrease as appropriate according to seasonality, without having to pay the same fixed amount throughout the year. What we see is that this non-law proposal has its economic implications: for the consumer, positive and for the electricity companies we understand that they will be negative because they will have to plan investments in their power plants to give the contracted power. But, as I said earlier, we should know whether, with this modification of power, the collection via network access charges is sufficient to cover the costs corresponding to this revenue item and it seems that, if there is no change in electricity regulation, the cost that would no longer be paid would have an impact on the other consumers and we would return to the starting point. In short, we believe that what needs to be addressed is a comprehensive energy policy that is satisfactory for all sectors and that covers all needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u65	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u66	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Capdevila's non-legislative proposal raises many doubts for us, because in a country like Spain, where the energy price is among the highest in the European Union, only exceeded by the United Kingdom and Ireland; where in addition the last thirty years have devoted themselves to patching up the electricity system, wasting the competitiveness of our companies while maintaining an opaque model of ruinous investments and revolving doors, and where, moreover, it has not been possible to legislate for the most disadvantaged, what you propose in this House - certainly without data and without quantifying - seems to us to be another patch - other parliamentary groups were commenting on it before - and we are now accustomed to the old political parties, both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, not making a thorough reform of the electricity sector. It is true that its proposal favours some companies with seasonal activity, but it also favours those citizens who have more than one home. Citizens also want to reduce the bill for light, but want to reduce it to all citizens, with planning, security and efficiency. [[Applauds]] I honestly do not doubt his good intention, but the modification of these two royal decrees to implement this new tariff of seasonal power contract and to make the changes of contracting power more flexible do not actually give an answer, again it is a patch. And it is that the price of electricity is determined by three fundamental factors: one, the costs of the system; two, the price of the energy market; and three, taxes. The costs of the system already know that they are the result of this poor planning of our energy policy; therefore, we need that audit of costs that lowers them and does not transfer them. The price of the energy market we know is marked by a marginalist system, but we need a state energy pact and an energy transition plan and so we will be able to lower the price. And finally, taxes. We know that the energy tax is taxed by VAT, value added tax at 21%, but in addition from 1997 the special electricity tax was created, at the time of José María Aznar, with more than 5%, especially for the issue of coal mining compensation. By the way, this tax will be discussed tomorrow in the Committee on Energy in order to eliminate this tax burden, because what is the point of imposing a excise duty on electricity? Minister Montoro himself the other day in the Committee on Finance explained to us that excise duties were justified because they had extra-fiscal purposes; that is, they are an instrument of social policy or health or environmental policy, so what is the purpose of this special electricity tax? The truth is that in the end it becomes a cost overrun for the citizen - more than 6% on the bill for light - and we hope that all political parties will support us tomorrow on this initiative. So let's stop patching, let's stop improvising and let's start developing the energy model we want for the future. In Citizens, of course, we are clear and so we have agreed with the People's Party on those one hundred and fifty measures, three of them fundamental. In point 18, we have a state pact for energy, focusing on innovation and international interconnections; in point 19, we draw up an energy transition plan to boost renewable energy, self-consumption and energy efficiency and to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels and greenhouse gas emissions. And, of course, in point 20 - and I mentioned it earlier - carry out that audit and that final settlement of all the costs of the system. Besides, we really want to see that audit of the light bill. I'm finishing up, President. During many years of hegemony of the old policy in this House they have devoted themselves to putting up patches, partial reforms, have devoted themselves even to revolving doors and ruinous investments. By the way, these markets that have been created are based on monopolies, oligopolies and even monopsonians. But it is that Citizens have come here, to politics, to promote reforms in the electricity sector that benefit all citizens and not just a few or, of course, those with greater purchasing power. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, do your homework, let us seek a consensus among all the parliamentary groups and set an example, because for something citizens pay us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Anaya has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Capdevila, your intention is good. I think his intention is good, it is obvious, but presenting easy solutions to complex problems, with wonderful effects and difficult to explain is not political, it is illusionism; politics is something else. The electricity system must ensure a trilemma: that there are twenty-four hours, seven days a week a guarantee of quality supply, at the lowest possible cost to the well-being of families and that it allows for the competitiveness of industry, and environmentally sustainable. Here, in this project, there are serious mistakes, mainly that does not make the system economically and financially sustainable and you should know that. Because if you present that there will be less income, what expenses will you cut? Do you know the consequences of the system not being balanced? I will explain it now, but you know it because it is in the Commission. The equilibrium of the system is fundamental in the Spanish electrical system. You make two serious mistakes, in my opinion. On the one hand, he does not understand what tariff sufficiency is. We have to pay a number of fixed costs that do not depend at all on electricity consumption: transport and distribution, which allow energy generation to reach the people who want to consume it; the operation of the system, which allows at any time, at the lowest possible cost, to enter the most efficient technologies; pay the 63,700 companies that produce renewable energy in our country; ensure that the price paid in the Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla and the Balearic Islands is the same as in the rest of the national territory. That is paid among all, Your Honor. In addition, networks are not scaled according to demand. I can't take transport lines and change them every six months according to my needs. You know that perfectly well. Transport is created and installed according to the maximum power a consumer wants, regardless of whether he consumes it or not. Your proposal leads us to great risks. The first of them, again incur tariff deficit, in imbalance; we will pay 2,838 million euros during 2017 and so on in other amounts until 2028. There is also an obvious transfer of rent; it is curious that this proposal makes it a formation that is called left because it is absolutely insolidary, since it happens that those who have a second home - as Mr. Iglesias said recently, those who have a second home are the rich - a holiday home, pay the fixed costs that I have previously said only during the month of August and the other eleven months do not pay them. Who's going to pay them, Mr. Capdevila? We split them all up. That's rent transfer and that's unfair. You are from Martorell and know that this income transfer clearly affects the competitiveness of the industry because it will increase the electricity bill. The truth is that I do not know very well what the purpose of this proposal is. The Spanish electricity system is supportive. For example, transport facilities are paid by everyone so that electricity can reach everyone in equal conditions. I invite you to sit with us at the table of dialogue and work. There is an open table in the ministry for the drafting of the three regulations that develop the social bonus and there are political parties, such as the Socialist Party and Citizens, that have already contributed with documentation on this, and you have not yet done so. I invite you to do it. These are effective energy policies, which really affect people's quality of life. Energy policy allows the electricity bill to fall. You know how? Empowering, for example, the consumer. Those regulations that are to be adopted will give consumers more information, which they will be able to choose with greater guarantees. Smart meters will all be available to consumers in 2018 and that will allow them to have hourly rates and choose when, how and how much energy they want to consume and, thus, adjust their consumption to the price of energy. In addition, by doing so, we will clear the consumption curve and, therefore, the consumption will be more efficient and with all this we will ensure a sustainable system. I would ask that from now on, if possible, in the energy sector - as I have repeatedly said in both the Commission and the plenary - they bring ideas that are economically sustainable and that do not involve the deficit and behaviour that are affecting the economy and the well-being of families. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u69	Thank you very much. Then I ask you, Mr Capdevila i Esteve, whether you accept any of the amendments tabled by your group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u70	We are in the process of a compromise between different groups and we will shortly be presenting it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u71	Okay. Thank you very much. - the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the adoption of a human rights plan. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 162/000282]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u72	We turn to the next item on the agenda, a non-legislative proposal by the Basque Parliamentary Group on the adoption of a human rights plan. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the presentation of the initiative and the defence of the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u73	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. This is not a new matter, I have the feeling that it takes many years to try to make something concrete in an effective way that was already in force there at the time by the IX Legislature. And why a human rights plan? Firstly, it must be said that it is a demand of a large part of civil society and of many non-governmental organizations. Also because beyond the rights that may appear in Title I of the Constitution it is important at the time of daily political action that these rights be implemented in a certain way, and this is oriented both to internal work in government executions in different areas of life within the territory of the State as well as in the areas of foreign policy. We therefore have a number of rights and freedoms in Title I, there are also all the international treaties, which are binding and which form part of the Spanish legal system once they have been ratified, but we must then look at the shortcomings and weaknesses and how to apply those rights correctly in specific policies and with the relevant controls, and all this in a cross-cutting way. He said that this comes from before and that we do not leave from scratch, nor do I intend the government to leave from scratch. I recall that in 2012, at the request of our group, a proposal was approved for a human rights plan, a human rights strategy, which came to light because it was already in the IX Legislature, with the Socialist Government, which developed and entered into force. However, by changing the legislature, it seems that the new Government did not want to continue with that and did not want to implement anything in this area, but at least we managed to make a parliamentary commitment from the Spanish Government. I also remember that, in September of the same year, the Vice-President of the Government again committed herself to a question of control and the appearance of a government representative in October 2012, in which it was literally said - I would love to read everything because of course it is a loa to develop a human rights plan - I have outlined to you the beginning of a new, very ambitious human rights strategy, of a global project to defend and guarantee rights that must be neutral, that must be guided by the general interest and that must count on all. This was said by the People's Party, but this strategy was never implemented, nor was any plan created; the only thing that was done was an examination of the fact sheets by areas, by sectors, which the Socialist Party had saying what had been done and what had not been done. From there, the Government said: We will commission the Centre for Constitutional Studies a study for the elaboration of the general outlines of a plan, a document that will help us to present the plan. The Centre for Constitutional Studies commissioned a team of prestigious experts in international law, constitutional law and human rights, but civil society was also involved because the team was responsible for collecting inputs from different areas. This team was led by a prestigious professor of constitutional law, Fernando Rey, who is casually today the Education Advisor of the Junta de Castilla y León, with the Government of the People's Party. Fernando Rey tried to carry the work forward, but the government - and I say it because they are public statements of the team itself, I am not discovering anything here - said: No, we have to remove some issues in which we do not have to enter. These issues were left a little out, the Government put new experts on the table and a 900-page document was finally redrafted. But the Government never wanted to present that document and never wanted to formalize it, but the work is done, even published, and accessible to everyone. This work is already done, with the participation of civil society. That is why when some of the groups call for amendments to involve civil society in their elaboration, they must be told that this work is already done and that it reaches 2015. [[The lady]] The question is now to use and implement it; therefore, they do not need so much time to do so. I have made amendments - because this initiative is at the end of December - to the deadline and that, instead of at the end of March, it will be until 1 June, at the latest, the deadline for presenting the plan and that, later on, approximately in September, the concrete measures will be presented because they will have to be linked to budgetary initiatives affecting the year 2018. Therefore, it does not start from scratch because there is already a job done by a multidisciplinary team, by a person who, I understand, if he is a advisor to Castile and León, is of his confidence, and with the participation of civil society, who has already given an approach to where that plan has to go. It is also stated in the amendments that international standards are taken into account. Of course, international standards must be taken into account; in fact, they were also taken into account in the preparation of such work. The Manual of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights was the guide for the construction of that document. Let us not say here, in the House, that international standards should be respected or that the obligation of international law should be discussed. Of course, but if Spain is obliged to do so because all ratified treaties are part of the Spanish legal system! The same applies now to calling for the effective and active participation of civil society. That section is already done, let us not excuse the Government to postpone it again sine die, let us at least make a formal commitment to present it now, without further delay. I'm done, Madam Vice President. Those are the reasons why I do not accept the amendments from the rest of the groups, and yes our self-amendment on deadlines. We do not accept the amendment by the People's Party because it leaves it out of time and we do not accept those of the rest of the groups either because we believe that there is already both a guarantee that more than one legislature will continue, that there will be control by Parliament, and that Parliament's proposals can be integrated into the plan year by year, and also that participation by society. As we understand that it is already complete in our text, we will maintain it as we have tabled, with the amendments amending the dates of submission, which are of our own group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Esteban; however, I would also have a turn to say whether or not to accept the amendments at the end of the group's interventions. The defence of amendments. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor. [[Pause]] I do not see him in the Chamber, so we move on to the next speaker, Mr Salvador Armendáriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Esteban, I would like to thank you for the presentation of this initiative, which in some way allows us to review the 90 measures of the European Union Action Plan presented in April 2015 and also to be able to update the 172 measures of the Human Rights Plan presented in 2008 by the Government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, who is right to follow, let us say, stand by. But allow me to convey a certain scepticism to you, because we can agree on a plan among all, but first we should know if every human right means the same to all. That would be what we should do before. For example, the right to life or how to defend the right to life, which is a human right, I believe. That is, there are those who believe that abortion of a life is a fundamental right, an inalienable right. There are also those who believe it is a social failure. And there are also those who believe - I could quote Gustavo Bueno or Julián Marías - that is the greatest injustice against the most defenseless being, the greatest symptom of moral blindness of our time. This debate on what the meaning of human rights is should therefore be prior to the consensus of that plan. In any case, three very brief suggestions. One is that we should not give lessons of respect for human rights as a society because here, today, we continue to pay tribute to ETA terrorists and be jealous of them, and we follow them, and so on, and we talk about human rights. Secondly, that we should be consistent, in the sense that if Leopoldo López would be a free politician in our country, we should also ask him to be in Venezuela. And, thirdly, I believe that, being right to do that plan, what we should do in some way is start at the beginning, start at the bottom; that is, start at the young, implement it there, be aware of the rights but certainly, and in a correlative way, also very aware of the duties, which we sometimes take little care of them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Salvador Armendáriz. I give the floor, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u77	Pick it up on. As we supported a very similar proposal four years ago because we understood that a human rights plan was necessary, we will do so again today, but we understand that it should demonstrate a genuine commitment to respect for all human rights and put in place means to eradicate their violation, not merely a declaration of intent. Furthermore, we understand that this is incompatible with the practice of this Government and its policies that restrict basic rights. Its economic policies have been a direct attack on fundamental rights such as the right to work, to a fair wage, to a decent pension, to housing, to social benefits, and this is combined with the limitation of the right to assembly or demonstration that the Law has imposed to silence protests. And what about their performance with the humanitarian drama that thousands of people are living who want to access Europe and who find obstacles to their arrival and no asylum policy. We are united in this with a Government that refuses to give a voice to the citizens of Catalonia, that citizenship that wants to mark its path and decide its future, and to which it responds only with threats and restrictions of their rights. And what about the denialist action in the face of the peace and normalization process demanded by the majority of Basque society and to which the Government continues to act against the most basic rights, as has often been reminded by European bodies in relation to the policy of dispersion, the calculation of penalties, torture, which neither recognizes nor investigates, acting out of logic and trying to impede the disarmament of ETA, in which even civil society is taking part in overcoming the blockade to which the Government wants to condemn us. I'm done. All this has happened while a previous plan was in place. We therefore support a new plan, but we say that it should serve to show that true commitment to all human rights, something that the PP Government has not done so far. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u78	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, eight years have passed since the adoption of the first human rights plan in Spain, which expired, as you know, in 2012. In the same year 2012, President Rajoy commissioned a group of independent experts to prepare a report that would serve as a basis for a second human rights plan, but the result was not positive. The cuts in health and education, the Ceuta and Melilla fences, the abuse of power in prisons and the CIEs or the lack of real democracy were some of the shortcomings identified by the researchers who made that report. Nor did the human rights plan assist in the drafting of labour reform, the unjustified criminalization of certain behaviours that are protected by the right to strike, the law gags or the failure to fund the Historical Memory Act. So the human rights plan drawn up by the People's Party Government was finally left in a drawer, basically because how a human rights plan was to be presented by a Government that was endangering essential elements of the rule of law. More than four years have passed since that situation, and our State urgently needs to implement the proposal of the World Conference on Human Rights, in which States were called upon to create a State plan of action to respect, protect and make effective them; a human rights plan that is permanent, but verifiable, and that adapts to the social context of the moment, and that is not linked to any legislature, but with the support and control of Parliament; a human rights plan that includes actions that effectively respond to the humanitarian crises we are experiencing, such as the case of the reception of the 17,000 Syrian refugees in our country, which is pending. It is necessary to change the attitude of a central Government which has so far rejected all offers of reception submitted by the autonomous communities, such as the 1,800 Syrian refugees who would have been welcomed by the Valencian Government for the past year, if it had been wanted to give a green light. Among the human rights to be included in the plan is the need to improve the care of victims, to extend the protection and assistance mechanisms to women who suffer male violence - today, a new murder in Galicia; two days ago, another in El Campello, Alacant - and to strengthen the instruments for the persecution of corrupt behaviour, which are also attacks on human rights, and to pay attention to what the international agencies working on the subject tell us. All this must be done as a result of a collaborative process, involving different political and social actors, including the autonomous communities, to deploy the full potential of the State of self-government also in the fuller realization of respect for human rights, which should be a priority endeavour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller i Ruiz. [[Mr Xuclà i Costa asks for the floor]] Mr Xuclà, I remind you that you were called to the beginning of the Joint Group's speaking time. He wasn't in the room. He has brought to this Presidency that was attending an institutional visit, and since we are still in the Joint Group's speaking time we are going to give him the floor basically so that his amendment does not fall apart. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your courtesy and kindness in allowing me to defend the amendment. He was certainly attending an institutional visit. I simply want to insist that the human rights programme of individual Governments has been a weak programme. Any foreign policy must incorporate human rights within the core of its international relations, in order to maintain a dialogue that often has to be a critical but constructive dialogue, speaking face-to-face and in-depth of human rights aspects. We support the initiative of the Basque Nationalist Party. We also proposed in our amendment that this would be a strategy beyond a legislature, that a structured dialogue with civil society be maintained and that there should be interdepartmental coordination, because it is not just a matter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but of the government as a whole and of the administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u83	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. We are now discussing the adoption of a national human rights plan by the Government, and the case is that there should be no debate on this. As early as January 2015, when Spain was submitted by the United Nations to the human rights assessment, the Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the People's Party said: It is the intention of the Government to adopt a new plan, this time not linked to any legislature, which shows that the commitment to human rights does not depend on changes of government, but is a real state policy, independent of the sign of the party in power at all times. Beautiful, very nice words, but where's the plan? This was said by you in January 2015 and today is February 21, 2017, two years and a month have passed. But their promises, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, were not only made at the United Nations, but on the website of the people - this is the previous date, December 2013 - these were the headlines: The People's Group supports the three national human rights plans on which the Government is working. [[Show a document]] Human rights, a priority of the government of Mariano Rajoy. What government of Mariano Rajoy? Of the X Legislature, this or 2040, since it seems to have the intention of perpetuating itself in office? From January 2013 to today, February 2017, four years have passed, and as all of Mr Rajoy's priorities are like this, Spain has made this clear. What happened to that plan, ladies and gentlemen? I ask the representative of the People's Party to explain this, please, when I come to this rostrum. Do you remember the statements of the director of the technical committee to draw up this plan? I refresh their memory; after resigning he said the following: The plan has been a missed opportunity, because when the process of elaboration was at the most advanced stage the Government stopped the project dry, without any explanation. They are really doing a lot of damage to institutions by deceiving citizens in this way. Let me explain to you at least one of the reasons we believe you had in mind so that that plan could not see the light. Could that commitment to human rights not be such, ladies and gentlemen? Could it be that human rights may not have been the driving force behind their policies? Because, look, you were criticizing the figures left by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's government, comparing them with the Human Rights Plan he made. But those left by Mr Rajoy's government are almost the same: 4,387,000 unemployed people, a percentage of 18.63%, who increase among women to 20.25 % and among young people to 42.92%. There are 1,387,000 households with all their members unemployed. Women account for an average of 24 per cent less than men; the poverty risk rate is 21.9 per cent and 28.3 per cent for women. One in three children is at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and Spain devotes only 1.3% of GDP to social protection for children, when the European average is almost double, 2.3%. The drop-out rate in Spain is 20% among young people aged 18-24, and we also double the EU average. And if we are talking about effective judicial protection and judicial independence, the representative of the People's Party quoted it earlier, do you remember the Greek report of the Council of Europe at the end of last year? For he threw his ears at them and said: The political authorities should not intervene in any of the stages of the process of appointing judges. How is the division of the judges of the Constitutional Court, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party going? How about we just end judicial bipartisanship and resurrect Montesquieu? It seems that the People's Party Government now wants to be a member of the United Nations Human Rights Council, so we assume that it will see the light of that plan that they have been announcing for over four years. Let it go forward, yes, but don't do it for a chair, do it for all the citizens of our country, so that they can see those rights materialized at some point; do it to put an end to unemployment and job insecurity. We have to change the model, the terrible figures show that neither the model of the Socialist Party nor the model of the People's Party is working. Do so to eliminate the gender gap and to ensure equality between men and women, both in the workplace and in general. Do so to properly train our children and young people, and that such training really serves them to find a job here, in our country. Do it to depoliticize justice at once and give equal treatment to all Spaniards before it. Do it yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, but do it to fulfill it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Reyes Rivera. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Belarra Urteaga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u85	Thank you. Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Group of the European People's Party, we believe that Spain urgently needs a human rights plan. And we need a human rights plan because in Spain human rights are systematically violated, not by us, but by the United Nations. Spain has been suspended for a long time, since the UN Human Rights Committee presented its concluding observations in July 2015, as reflected in the sixth universal periodic review, better known as the UPR. And we urgently need a human rights plan because the Government of the People's Party - which is reflected in the Human Rights Committee itself - is currently violating the right to housing, the right of women to live free from macho violence, the right to freedom of expression, the rights of detained persons, who, yes, in 21st-century Europe can suffer in prisons and in the Spanish CIEs ill-treatment or torture. We also need this plan because migrants do not have the right to health guaranteed, they do not have access to the right to asylum guaranteed, or they may suffer summary and illegal returns in Ceuta and Melilla. And we also need that plan because racialized people, Spanish or migrant, suffer racism within our State, such as identifications based on ethnic profile or other social actors. And we also need this plan because millions of children are seeing their right to physical integrity violated. Yesterday we were introducing an initiative to learn more about child sexual abuse and sexual assault on minors, and according to the Ministry of Health's own data we would be talking about that 23% of the children in our country have suffered some kind of sexual assault, one out of every four boys and girls. It seems a little surprising, when not openly hypocritical, the fact that submitting the candidacy to the Human Rights Council for the period 2018-2020 makes it a country that does not have a human rights plan; it is as it said something surprising, when not openly hypocritical. We need a plan that is concrete, that presents the necessary measures that help us to effectively fulfil the obligations to which we have committed ourselves, and that implements the international human rights law that we have assumed as our own. And this proposal is not new, we ourselves in our group carried it on the electoral agenda, it was a plan for human rights and gender equity, but it is not worth any plan, and I believe that this is the fundamental difference with the proposal made by the PNV. It's not worth any plan. Our people cannot take on another make-up operation, but we need a plan that proposes concrete and immediate implementation measures to address, as I said, a very serious human rights violation situation that is being experienced in our country. The human rights plan must have goals, objectives and indicators of processes and results, because if it is not impossible to assess it later, and then we will not be able to demand accountability. Moreover, a plan has to be accompanied, yes or no, by budget items that allow it to be implemented, because otherwise it will not be possible to implement it either. In this plan, social organizations and groups cannot be invited by stone, but those people who are defending human rights in our country every day with their bodies, tearing up time from here and there, must be the protagonists of this plan, and the elaboration of a human rights plan must be through the active participation of the main involved, of those who suffer every day from these violations of rights in our country: people with functional diversity, children and girls, migrant people, LGBTBIQ groups, people of African descent and race. And it doesn't take months to draw up this plan, we have a human rights plan in the drawer, as other colleagues who have used the word before me have said, and without going any further than the sixth universal periodic review of the Human Rights Committee, to which I referred at the beginning, is a good starting point. Economic resources also exist. If we have spent EUR 60 billion on rescuing a bank, money that they do not intend to return, how will we not be able to finance a simple human rights plan? It is clearly a matter of priorities, and in our view this plan should necessarily include internal and foreign policy measures. In our internal policy, we believe that we cannot spend more time without a constitutional reform that will safeguard social, economic, cultural and environmental rights, without a reform of the legislation that will bring our rules on male-based violence into line with the Istanbul Convention, without comprehensive anti-trafficking laws, racial discrimination or against the LGBTI collective. And in foreign policy, we have to change our approach and reorient the counter-terrorism struggle, ensuring that human rights are respected, as well as failing to condition official development assistance to migration control, which is something that the People's Party Government likes very much. I conclude by saying that this very week the City Council of Madrid, with Madrid now at its head, has shown that, if you want, you can do it. In just two years of government, the Madrid City Council has already drawn up a human rights plan for the city with more than 370 measures, which cross-cutting the approach of human rights and gender in all the city's policies. This plan has been designed with more than 2,000 people, 160 civil society entities, and workshops have been developed in which, as people who suffer from these rights violations say, they have been actively involved. In addition, this plan has been endorsed by all the citizens of Madrid through Decide Madrid, and said: if you want, you can. I encourage you to commit yourselves once and for all to human rights. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Belarus. Mr Barreda de los Ríos has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Esteban, I do not think you are surprised that our group is announcing that it shares with the proposing group the will to draw up and adopt a new human rights plan, not only because this is Spain's commitment to the Vienna Conference in 1993, but because it is consistent with the trajectory of Spanish democracy and the 1978 Constitution, a Constitution that is the fundamental legal instrument, the best guarantee of respect for human rights, which was articulated on the culture of human rights, and was opened up in the world throughout the second half of the twentieth century. We therefore share that will, we also share the need to contemplate concrete and evaluable objectives, and of course to specify mechanisms for monitoring, participation and also participation by this House. We also express this with a large majority in February 2012, as has been recalled, in a similar proposal and debate at a time when the first Human Rights Plan of 2008 was completed, which had not been evaluated. Since then, as indicated in that parliamentary agreement, a full evaluation of the plan was carried out and the final report of that evaluation was forwarded to Congress on 28 December 2012. Then work was done on the elaboration of the second human rights plan, by a technical group - it has been recalled here in extensive - of the Center for Political and Constitutional Studies, which suffered some changes in its constitution and which forced to resume work at different times, especially since September 2014, at that time opening the discussion to issues such as the impact of new technologies in the field of human rights. In any case, during the 10th Legislature, the Government carried out concrete and important human rights actions. Not only did he draw up plans, but he fulfilled existing commitments. I know that it is customary to hear speeches that have as their sole basis the denial and misrepresentation of reality. I have heard a speech in this House today from the spokesman for Bildu, and we must have a platform to come up to this rostrum and make the speech he has made in the field of human rights. You, who still do not condemn ETA terrorism and therefore fail to achieve democracy, are allowed to give human rights lessons from this rostrum. I want to tell you that you have legal legitimacy and all the freedom that democracy recognizes you to pour your concepts from the rostrum, but as long as you do not condemn ETA's criminal trajectory and do not demand its unconditional dissolution you will lack any moral legitimacy within and outside this House. Not a single glimpse of moral legitimacy or democratic credibility, let alone human rights, ladies and gentlemen. Other groups have come here to talk nothing less than about systematic human rights violations in Spain. How bad it is for some, gentlemen of the United We can, to move from the muse to the theatre! You are in this area talking about human rights forgetting that you have very bad travel partners, both inside and outside Spain. When they go around Alsasua supporting those who do violate human rights in Spain they forget their speech; when they look in the mirror of Iran and do not see the incoherence of their words they also incur in contradiction, and when their ancquillary relationship, no longer submissive, but ancquillary with Maduro leads them to forget the human rights of Venezuela's political prisoners, starting with Leopoldo López, they also incur in open contradiction. And then they talk about systematic human rights violations in Spain, distorting the United Nations and reading its reports backwards. Finally, he said that, despite these speeches, the 10th Spanish Legislature had a statute for the victim of the crime, a Mediation Act and a reform of the Criminal Code that more harshly punished forced marriage, trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation or hate crimes, many of which had remained pending in the first Human Rights Plan. This is what we've been doing for years, Mrs. Reyes, by the way, since I was asking. Spain had indeed submitted itself in 2015 to the United Nations universal periodic review on human rights; the national report had focused on the issues I had identified and the 2010 recommendations, as well as on measures taken to address the international economic and financial crisis, taking into account the criteria of economic, social and cultural rights. The Human Rights Council approved the outcome of the review of Spain on 25 July 2015. It's approved, gentlemen of the United We Can. Spain committed itself, following that largely satisfactory review, to completing the elaboration of a new human rights plan, in accordance with the United Nations drafting procedure, ranging from a year to a year and a half, and a few weeks later the Human Rights Council itself, in particular the working group on Arbitrary Detention, ruled out that there was no arbitrariness in the detention of lawyer Arantza Zulueta, in the context of an operation against ETA on 14 April 2010. There was no violation of the principle of detention on trial, according to paragraph 69; there was no denial of conditional release without legal basis, according to paragraph 76; pre-trial detention had no other purpose to ensure its appearance at trial, according to paragraph 77, and therefore, he concludes, there is no basis for claiming that it was arbitrary detention. I say this because others have wanted to use United Nations resolutions to raise doubts about respect for human rights in Spain. Despite these positive pronouncements the situation of a government in office was not the most appropriate for this issue, and a human rights plan - term, ladies and gentlemen - conditions and directs policy to a future government, and therefore it did not seem logical that a government in office should do so, but constituted the Government of Spain is a candidate for the Human Rights Council for the period 2017-2020, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs has also reiterated on December 21st the will in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to define the new human rights plan. That is Spain's commitment to human rights. It is no longer a plan, but the Constitution, the laws, the Government and the courts that guarantee human rights in Spain. It is a strategy that goes beyond ideologies, political powers, governments in office and political situations. The only thing that remains for us, Mr Esteban, to reach an agreement - you know - is that the deadlines contained in your proposal are impossible to meet. It is impossible with United Nations procedures to adopt a human rights plan within the time frames you set and also within which you have amended yourself. We want to support his proposal and we have the will to adopt the plan with or without a proposal, but the aim of our amendment is to bring realism and prevent the Government from being required to do what it wants to do, which is the will of the Government to do and the will of all to push forward within a time frame within which it is impossible to do so.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u88	Mr. Barreda, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u89	I'm done, Your Honor. I therefore trust your common sense so that I can finally reach an agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Barreda. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor in the position-setting round for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u91	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. They say that to write a book - it would be the same for a parliamentary intervention - it is important how it starts. The speech of the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group inspired me to remember my teacher of Formation of the National Spirit, from 6th high school, when I studied at the end of the sixties, who repeatedly explained to me the difference between freedom and libertiny. What is freedom and what is debauchery? He said to me: Freedom is what the laws in force accept and debauchery is what some call freedoms, but which undermine the principles of movement, which at that time were the law. He insisted on this and most of the students did not feel the same. One day we put the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights on the board. The results were obvious. Freedom of expression was not contemplated and therefore we paid it venially in that institute, but we paid it. And the truth is that these principles have been maintained in one way or another in force. It is not necessary to tell them that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is sometimes applied little or is applied on the basis of existing laws, and when it is not of interest it is changed. On 23 February, there was a halt to the implementation of the Constitution, and this last period of absolute majority of the People's Party government has been a constant struggle against liberating. [[The Lord]] No doubt the Law gags is an example. With these precedents, any proposal for a human rights plan is clear, but insufficient. It's interesting, but I would subscribe to the intervention of Marian Beitialarrangoidia. Yes, Marian; not only do you have the right to speak, but many of us share what you say, and more and more in this Chamber. I would also share from A to Z what Ione Belarus has said. But human rights not only affect people, but also affect peoples, as the United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights says. I guess nobody's missed the conflict that we've had for years between Catalonia's rights as a nation and the negationist interpretation that many of you do. Again, it is a conflict over the concept of freedom and rights. They will tell me that the law in force does not contemplate it and that the other is debauchery. That's what we're on. It's like a second adolescence for me to come to this Chamber. Rubio Llorente, in an article entitled A referendum for Catalonia published in El País on October 8, 2012 - keep it, 2012 - more than four years ago - how much time lost - said when The country and Mr.Cebrian were not hammer of heretics: If a territorialized minority, i.e. not scattered throughout the territory of the State, as happens in some countries of the East, but concentrated in a defined part, delimited administratively and with the dimensions and resources necessary to constitute itself as a State wants independence, the democratic principle prevents us from opposing this will formal obstacles that can be eliminated. If the Constitution prevents it, it will have to be reformed, but before it reaches that point it is necessary to find out the existence and solidity of that supposed will. Rubio Llorente. Freedom and human rights in the face of legally immobile principles; republicanism versus doctrinal liberalism. We spend our two hundred-year history on a vertiginous déjà vu. We can stay with the old vision of my teacher of the FEN - remastered and constitutionalized, that yes - or we can dare to move freely - I like the word; repeat: freedom - giving voice to the citizenry. Human rights and republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Batet Lamaña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u93	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna in 1993, proposed to States to develop a national plan of action identifying the necessary measures to improve the promotion and protection of human rights in their field. We committed ourselves to it as a country. In December 2008, coinciding with the thirtieth anniversary of the Constitution and the sixtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Government of Spain adopted the first Human Rights Plan, thereby implementing that 1993 recommendation. The plan provided for 172 very concrete, well-defined measures; they were not good intentions, they were genuine evaluable commitments. There were 172 measures that had as their priority the promotion of equality, non-discrimination and the integration and guarantee of human rights, both within and outside our borders, i.e. in the area of internal policy and foreign policy. The first human rights plan that this country has had, approved by a socialist Government, had as its objective the orientation of the Government's action in the field of human rights, and also to facilitate the control of the Government's action in this area by this Parliament. The elaboration of this plan placed human rights as a priority on the political agenda, and so we projected a country image also outside our borders. It was a subject present in this House much more intensely, with constant appearances by the Secretary of State, José de Francisco, and parliamentary initiatives by the groups that we were part of this House. Surely that is why this first human rights plan was very well received by civil society, which is committed to this defence. I will highlight only a few achievements at the international level, at the European level and internally, at the national level. At the international level, for example, Spain signed and ratified the Convention on Cluster Munitions, the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance, the Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings, the Convention on Laundering, Monitoring, Seizure and Seizure of Proceeds from Crime and the Financing of Terrorism or Protocols Nos. 4, 7, 13 and 14 to the European Convention on Human Rights. Our country actively collaborated with the United Nations Human Rights Council and promoted the establishment of the International Commission against the Death Penalty. At the European level, Spain has encouraged work in the European Union to reach an agreement on the European protection order, as well as to intensify the Union's involvement in international arms trade control. The domestic action adopted draft laws, regulations and plans and programmes on prevention and protection against gender-based violence, rights and integration of foreign citizens and also protection of refugees. Its implementation includes, inter alia, the Comprehensive Plan to Combat Trafficking in Human Beings, programmes for the resettlement of refugees or the establishment of the national mechanism for the prevention of torture. Today, in order to respond to a new crisis, the refugee crisis we are suffering, to provide coverage, to respond and to show a firm commitment to all human beings, this call for a second human rights plan is more pressing than ever. For the monitoring and evaluation of the plan, a commission was formed consisting of representatives of the Ministry of the Presidency and of civil society, appointed by the latter on the proposal of non-governmental organizations dedicated to the defence and promotion of human rights and of university human rights institutes. The implementation of the human rights plan was linked to the duration of the IX Legislature. In the 10th Legislature, the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies adopted on 14 February 2012, also at the request of the Basque Parliamentary Group, a parliamentary initiative that urged the Government to develop a new strategy in this area, after evaluation of the previous plan. The Vice-President of the Government personally committed herself to this. This evaluation was submitted in October 2012 and demonstrated that more than half of the measures envisaged in the plan had been implemented. The commitment to draw up the second plan was never again known. Moreover, when the Government was asked about this in 2014, the answer was: in Spain we have a human rights plan that does not lapse, which is the Constitution. That is why, Mr Barreda, we are surprised by your statement and we doubt your commitment, because we are in 2017 and there is no second human rights plan. There are no longer any pretexts at this time, and above all there is an absolute majority that prevents it. The current Government must continue this practice begun in 2008, but it is true that this second human rights plan will have to be irremediably accompanied by a profound change in the policies carried out by the Government of the People's Party. The sixtieth anniversary of the Treaty of Rome is being celebrated on 25 March - I conclude, Mr President. This is an excellent time to put the defence of human rights in the right place. Let us contribute as a country that this region of the world will once again have credibility, become a reference for other countries and re-represent the values that the most dignity, well-being and happiness have brought to humanity. For this reason, Mr Esteban, I thank you for bringing this initiative to the House, for having had this debate at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, and for announcing the vote in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs Batet. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments, I ask Mr Esteban Bravo whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled by his group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u95	Our own self-amendments only.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u96	All right. We took note of the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u97	We shall now proceed to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals. Firstly, a motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group into the measures the Government intends to take to correct the wage gap between men and women. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez has the floor. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Good afternoon. We went up to this rostrum after the question to the minister to demand that the Government act urgently against pay differences and unequal conditions in the labour market between women and men, and that it do so by bringing a bill on equal pay to this House. We need a specific law because it is essential to eliminate the lower rates of activity of women, the lower occupation, the higher unemployment rate, the greater interruptions in the working career and the difficulty they have in accessing the labour market. We need a law to end the social and business inertias that reinforce and deepen the sexual division of labour. Only through a law can we remove the obstacles that prevent and hinder real equality in the labour market. As much as Minister Báñez tries, there is no statistical cuisine that is capable of distorting the reality of Spanish women. The minister, as responsible for employment policies, in just three years increased the wage gap to 24%, while between 2008 and 2011 the gender wage gap narrowed by almost one percentage point. In 2017 we find a legacy of cuts that has involved the dismantling of social services and the tightening to the limit of the Unit Law, a legacy of drastic cuts, investment in health and education, and a deregulation of working time that implies overtime. The Government's measures have brought part-time contracts covering full-time and hourly periods for the care of children, which, when implemented by employers, undermine the co-responsibility and reconciliation of family and work life. The reform of the People's Party has boosted collective bargaining, which is a key part of the articulation of equality plans in companies. All these elements, ladies and gentlemen, make it difficult for women to participate in the workplace, simply because we are the ones who continue to increase and assume almost all of the responsibility for care. Today there are 200,000 fewer women working than at the end of 2008 and it is not true that all the female employment that destroyed the crisis has been recovered, as the minister said here. The female employment that is created is mostly temporary and precarious, and cheating on data is not going to change the daily reality of women in this country. We cannot come to this House to say that women's wages are growing six times as much as men's wages when the annual wage structure survey shows that women's wages have been reduced by 3.7% in real terms since 2011, exactly three tenths more than men's wages. There is no statistical kitchen capable of concealing what is obvious, that labor reform has been harmful to women. The opportunity that the PP gives to women is the precarious work and the complacency that the Government spends is called gender blindness. Do you have nothing to say or anything to propose when 74% of part-time workers are women? Is there nothing to say or propose when the female labour force is being lost and when we know that the main reason why women are not seeking employment is the unshared family burden? Nothing to propose? Nothing to propose when they know that 42% of unemployed women have been seeking employment for more than two years? A percentage, by the way, which reaches 60% when women are over 50 years of age. The real data are the life stories of women, who continue to show us discrimination and inequality in all sectors of activity, regardless of their level of training and the age of these workers. Ladies and gentlemen, intervention is needed through a law because companies cannot ask people to be free of incidences. In addition, women workers are mothers, workers are parents and motherhood cannot continue to be an obstacle to women's integration into the world of work. That, in addition to being discriminatory, is a policy that undermines the demographics and future of this country. We need a new regulation of working time that regains the role of collective bargaining. A comprehensive law that, from coherence, promotes co-responsibility, values care, inspires maternity and paternity leave that is decent and of course equal leave, and includes hourly flexibility for care. A law to ensure that the State is definitely co-responsible through a network of public services that, by the way, also create employment. Employment makes it possible to earn a living, we all know that, but the model of their labour reform is condemning women to a bad life. Ladies and gentlemen, this law we are demanding is not in favour of women, it is a law of social justice and social justice, it is a law for efficiency and economic efficiency, but above all the social efficiency that will allow Spain to be rebuilt as a country. This afternoon, all groups should bet to mandate the Government to get to work, because not supporting this initiative means putting itself on the side of those who believe that greater inclusion of women in the labour market must be achieved at the expense of women's exhaustion. It is not exhausting women, but with labour inspections and an increase in the sanctioning regime against discrimination, with strategies of transparency on wages and wage supplements, with a thorough control of overtime and recovering the strength of collective bargaining and equality plans, to which they no longer even give subsidies, as we are going to end the wage gap. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to the government to give the answer. Bring into this House a law on equal pay and, if they do not, the Socialist Group will push it forward, because the integration of equality into the economic response is key to bringing this country forward. We hope that they will support it because they are not supporting a proposal from the Socialist Group, but the future of women in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alvarez. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó intervenes, first of all, by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Democratic Party is going to vote in favour of this motion tabled today by the Socialist Group because we firmly believe that it is appropriate to take letters on the matter in order to eliminate the wage gap between men and women. Wage discrimination is one of the causes of inequality. According to a last study by the Generalitat de Catalunya, in Catalonia there is a difference of about 7,000 euros between the salary that a man receives and the salary that a woman receives; the difference is something else in the rest of the Spanish state. In addition, three causes are pointed out as the most outstanding of why this wage gap is given. One is that there is lower remuneration for women for the same work and, in addition, women hold more undervalued jobs than men do. There are fewer women in management positions who are generally better paid. The third cause would be the unequal distribution of care for children and dependents. If there were equalization of child and dependent care work, women's wages would be almost 4,000 euros more a year, according to this latest report by the Government of Catalonia. In this regard, we have tabled three amendments that we hope will be able to make, with the ultimate aim of agreeing a text that inspires the Government to address a law to eliminate the wage gap between men and women. In the time I have left I want to emphasize what is very important to us, co-responsibility, which we will only get with decent and equal maternity and paternity leave; these have to be equal, non-transferable and paid 100%. In addition, we would extend this to the rest of the permits derived from the care of minors and dependents so that the equality in their enjoyment is for both men and women. It does not serve us today, even if the text of the labour reform and other laws is gender neutral - it speaks of working people, at best - because the fact is that it is women who pay more attention to these permits. Let us establish corrective measures, even by appealing to inbreeding, so that we can care for minors and dependents, in this case, more dependent than minors because, in principle, inbreeding would be preached to both. Therefore, yes to reforms, yes to pass this law and yes to agree a text for a final purpose: to have a law that favors the elimination of the wage gap. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs Ciuro. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u101	I'll be brief because I think I only have a minute. Today, new measures are proposed to eliminate the wage gap and it is not wrong to propose because it is said that what abounds does not harm, but what is really needed is will, real commitment and feminist policies. I know that this can scandalize and even frighten a part of this House, but what we are asked of men is only that we accompany feminist policies to eradicate one of the most obvious inequalities, the oldest domination that humanity endures, which is that of men over women. The wage gap is not the only problem, it is an indicator of the structural domination that women suffer in a society thought and directed by men, a society that is based on the sexual division of labour under the logic of the heteropatriarchal capitalist system that leaves care and reproduction for women and that relegates them from the spaces of representativeness and the spaces of importance in society. That is why the wage gap would have to rise by 33.6% in our country in order to match the wages of women and men, which is why 78.3% of part-time work is done by women, and that is why 26.7% of temporary work affects women compared to 21% of men. In the meantime, there is no co-responsibility and women remain subordinate, subject to a system that relegates them to care and sustainability of life, reproductive work and work. What is needed are feminist policies, however much some may be frightened by their misunderstanding, because what is needed, as I said at the beginning of my speech, is only to accompany.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a data debate, but it is true that a lot of data do make this problem more visible. According to official figures, women earn 6,000 euros less per year than men. It is a gap that widens further in the toughest years of the crisis and the problem is that since then it has not stagnated. This is why, as various social actors have already pointed out, women have been the most affected by the last two labour reforms; in other words, they remain the weakest link in the labour market to deal with situations of shortage and even more precarious. This gap is even greater among those with higher education compared to those with a lower level of training. Thus, among workers with primary education the average salary of women is 6,500 euros lower than that of men. If we talk about people with degrees and doctorates this difference is extended to 9,500 euros, and that fact is even more worrying because it leads us to a tougher scenario: training, qualification, knowledge alone are not enough tools to combat these effects. This gap appears to be greater in the area of private enterprise than in that of public enterprise, and it is also wider in service sectors than in construction sectors - it is said rather than especially in financial services - which leads us to another conclusion, that even where there is a greater presence of women, in these sectors, it serves to make their assessment in terms of equality with men. According to data from the National Institute of Statistics, the distance between men and women was widened in 2014 by 0.7 points, to 23.25 per cent of the salary. At that time, women's wages barely increased by EUR 9.6 to EUR 19,745, compared to EUR 247.5 for men up to EUR 25,727 on average. That is, rather than moving forward on the road to overcoming, what is allowing the passage of time is that although there is supposed to be a greater social, institutional awareness and even I would say that politics has not meant an improvement in the relative position of women in the wage field so that the existing gap, contrary to what we should think, has only worsened. These data and many other reflections and many others make us share the reflections proposed by the motion submitted which is supposed to be concrete in a non-legislative proposal. Neither the institutions nor the social actors nor the citizens, nor much less we as legislators, can be alien to this situation, because at the end of the day the equality before the law that preaches article 14 of the Constitution ceases to be an effective right recognized as such in Title I, Chapter II of the Constitution, in order to become only an inspiring principle of the actions of the public authorities, as they are characterized in Chapter III of Title I, depends, among other reasons, on the possibility that such a right can be realized and also demanded. That is, that it can be made effective. It is not logical that the only instrument for the defence of gender inequality today consists in the actions provided for in article 53.2 of the Constitution, but that a greater realization of the content of those rights, of that right to equality, as enshrined in article 14 in its facet of the gender difference, is necessary so that it can be challenged directly before the courts and in specific actions. We therefore understand that the realization of this right to equality in the gender debate requires, as the proposal says, not only addressing the facet of the right to equal pay, but also other manifestations of effective discrimination to be sought through a legal response based on specific objectives. In other words, a legal response is needed, a legal translation that can define specific areas of law so that they can be required in their gender facet. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the commitment of the law; that is to say, what we are talking about is that the institutional commitment, the commitment of the legislator, is embodied in the law. That is why, as I have explained to the proposer, we have made a compromise amendment because, apart from the proposed content, we understand that at that point or at some point, with all respect, we believe that it is distracted a little - I say it with all affection - it is distracted with other purposes that do not come to the case, as is the interinstitutional agreement to make possible a local pact. We will not be the ones to discuss their need, not even their possibility, when it is already in force in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. We believe that the focus of both the motion and, in its case, the GNP or even the legislative proposal that could come from the Government is on concrete action, on the identification of specific measures to combat the scourge that still exists, which is not just the gender pay gap, but many other measures coupled with it. By asking him to accept our amendments, we are nevertheless announcing our vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Faba de la Encarnación has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The people in this House are representatives of the citizenry, but do we really represent the social and economic reality of this country? If that were the case, 15.50 % of Members of this House should be paid less than the minimum inter-branch wage, i.e. less than EUR 707,70, and 13.10 % of Members of this House would be charged more than the maximum contribution base. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what I am describing is the social reality of the wage gap shown in this graph, but it is not a gap, it is something much deeper, it is discrimination in every rule, where men monopolize high wages and relevant positions and women are condemned to the bottom of the table. [[She teaches it.]] Women today claim what men earned a decade ago, making Spain the sixth largest European country with a gender pay gap, only below Slovakia, Germany, the Czech Republic, Austria and Estonia. We affirm that there is not only a vertical ceiling as it ascends to the positions of representation, but horizontal segregation on the time scale that drives us out of the labour market. Until a few years ago, women fought for access to work, now we left our skin competing with men in a theoretical equality of conditions and opportunities. The wage gap between men and women has two readings; the easiest is the interpretation that a woman and a man in the same job receive different wages, lower than that of a woman. The other comes to explain that women work less hours than men, which obviously has an impact on the fact that they charge less. This second explanation has to do with the fact that we women bear the strongest burden of domestic organization and the care of elderly children or parents, so that unemployment and job insecurity are gnawed more with us. Inequality is persistent, it clings to our society and suffocates us, tightening women more and more. Inequality is like a monster that grows unstoppable and has to be faced with determination. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time I have told you that neither as one nor as another, for what we are, do we contribute and value. That's all. The World Economic Forum has published its annual study for 2016. Of the 144 participating countries, Spain is lagging behind; it retreats four from 2015 and eighteen from 2006. Women must continue to work longer than men to get the same pay as their peers for the same tasks and businesses are poorly aware of this goal. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for us to address the necessary reforms here to eliminate the wage gap. In Citizens we are aware of this problem, and already in the investment pact agreed with the People's Party we demand measures in this regard. In particular, in point 73 of our agreement, among the measures required were those aimed at actively promoting gender equality, deepening programmes to promote equal opportunities between men and women, combating discrimination, promoting women's employment and training, promoting women's entrepreneurship, increasing women's access to leadership positions, supporting equality policies in the company and correcting the wage gap. Spain still has a long way to go, and we have clear examples to draw on. Barak Obama left the White House with one goal accomplished: he got fifty multinationals to commit to paying the same to men as to women. In Switzerland, companies obtain a logo that certifies equal pay if they show that they have implemented a fair wage policy between women and men. In France, the Equal Wage for Women and Men Act 2006 makes collective bargaining on gender equality mandatory and requires companies to report on this. In 2012, Belgium adopted a law to ensure that the wage and labour cost gap between men and women is indicated in the annual audit of companies which is transmitted to the national bank and made public. In Spain, the Institute for Women and Equal Opportunities launched a tool a year ago to detect the existence of a gender pay gap in companies, but we do not know what level of implementation it has had and the results achieved. We believe that there is a need to improve measures to curb and eradicate the wage gap, and for this reason it will be impossible to make progress in reducing the wage gap if it is not previously affected by its causes, including those described above. We have therefore tabled an additional amendment. We propose that the Government promote agreements that encourage the establishment of clear targets for the representation of women in management positions and on corporate boards and that promote a culture of transparency in the selection process at all levels of recruitment. In this regard, we set out two concrete measures: the publication of gender-segregated recruitment statistics that materialise the commitment of companies and the expectation that companies will handle curricula in procurement processes in such a way that they do not include references to the names, genders or photographs of candidates to avoid possible biases in the evaluation unrelated to merit and capacity; that is, that selection processes are opaque and merit and capacity is what is really valued. By incorporating this our amendment, we will vote in favour of the Socialist Group's proposal, because, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want women to give us anything because they are women, but we do not want them to take it away because they are women. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Faba. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u107	Good afternoon. I am addressing those in this House and also the citizens as a whole. In fact, let's see if we can do a little pedagogy because I'm sure many and many of us at some point have had a conversation with friends or friends or maybe with the family and we may have come up with some 'brother-in-law' argument that this from the pay gap should not be true. If we can break some cliché and disassemble some idea, better. It is often believed that the wage gap is a direct discrimination, but that is not at all accurate, because it is true that there is a part that is explained by direct discrimination because of issues such as that for the same job, with similar working conditions, the remuneration is lower for a gender issue, but this is the responsibility of the employer himself and is illegal. This could be addressed by increasing labour inspections. Moreover, it happens that the bulk that explains the wage gap derives from a more complex situation that has to do with horizontal segregation - these are the feminized sectors -, it has to do with vertical segregation - not vertical ceiling -, which is the glass ceiling, and with the type of day or superwoman effect, by calling it in some way. On the glass ceiling, faced with a vision that justifies that women occupy jobs with less responsibility because they have accessed the labour market later historically, the fact is that this pattern is repeated over time and has its root causes in the patriarchal conception of the social imaginary, but also in that the professional careers of men and women begin to diverge from the stage of motherhood and fatherhood. Do you remember the chastity Bertín Osborne asking Casillas if his wife, journalist Sara Carbonero, would return to work after having been a mother? [[Applauds]] Well, it wasn't another time, it was a year ago, on our public television that we paid everyone, and on schedule for the biggest audience. For this reason, the PPiiNA proposal to establish equal, non-transferable - not only decent, non-transferable - permits paid 100 per cent as a measure to ensure that there is no higher cost to the employer if it hires men or women is key, as is the establishment of free children's schools. The problem of this vertical segregation implies that motherhood is an exit from the women's labour market that will last their professional career, because right now what the data tells us is that from about thirty women leave the labour market and many of them never reintegrate, which later has an obvious and logical impact in which women's pensions are, of course, lower than men's pensions. On horizontal segregation we could talk about the feminized sectors and surely we do not need to think much, which is obvious, which are more feminized: we have the health, the administration and the hospitality that have higher rates of wage gap. This has to do, for example, with men in the health sector generally occupying medical posts and women generally occupying nursing posts, thus moving to the wage differential, which is lower for women. This horizontal segregation responds to a more structural component that derives, first, from women's access to the labour market through activities associated with gender roles such as care or domestic work, sectors that already have a higher rate of precariousness and worse working conditions. And also the type of day is key, the day is part-time, something non-voluntary, and a contractual figure that women use much more than men, because it allows them to make the work of care compatible with productive work. Women entered the labour market but at the same time there has been no co-responsibility on the part of men in the work of care, so we do not have a day off, but a double day. As much has been said about numbers, I would just like to add that if we have a rate of 23.25 % in territories like Asturias - to which I belong - that rate increases to 27 % of inequality between men and women. So if to pay the same, to get the same pay, the men work twelve months and the women sixteen months, this means that a working life of thirty-five years would have to add eleven and a half more years in the case of the women to receive the same amounts. Likewise, while men would work thirty-five years, women would work forty-six and a half years, a little more in Asturias. That is why I insist that equal, non-transferable and 100 per cent paid paternity leave must be established. It is necessary to incorporate in the business culture of our country the establishment of diagnoses and equality plans for businesses, and that they are implemented; and that is because the administrations are exemplary for this purpose. Currently, the development of public administrations' diagnoses and equality plans is not being implemented, it is not complying with the Equality Act itself, it is on paper, yes, but it is not being implemented. Improving working conditions would help women, but what we have is a situation in which, thanks to two labour reforms, there is no possibility of negotiating agreements. This is going to ring a bell, but to talk about this we need to repeal the two labour reforms that have violated our rights and our collective bargaining capacity. So in the next conversations, when they tell them that there is no pay gap, they can say: no, we have a very clear explanation in some YouTube video. As I said, this is a structural problem, it is a problem that does not have a single cause and of course it is not solved only by doing the 'Day of...', as we found a PNL a few months ago where it was necessary to fix a day of co-responsibility and reconciliation between work and family life. This needs to be addressed with responsibility, public schools from zero to three, equal and non-transferable permits, a public care network and the reduction of working hours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Castañón. Mrs Romero Sánchez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u109	Thank you very much. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we have a good opportunity to send a clear, unanimous message from all the members of this House to all women who suffer from some kind of inequality, to whom we must of course send from here the message that we have to work to achieve a more just society, a more equal society where equal opportunities between men and women are a reality. In this we all agree without any doubt, so it must be a battle of all. Of course, that is the commitment of the People's Party to which I represent, to move towards real and effective equality between women and men. The reduction of the wage gap, which no one denies, but which unfortunately is not new and has lived for decades, has always been one of the priorities of the People's Party Government, as is employment, entrepreneurship, reconciliation of work and family life, co-responsibility and, of course, the fight against gender-based violence. We are faced with one of the most unjust discriminations historically suffered by women, but the Government has not been overtaken and has taken different measures to further advance, measures that have to do with improving reconciliation, teleworking, increasing the care of children of their ages to reduce the day, increasing paternity leave in the weeks as well, measures that were identified in the Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities 2014-2016, drawn up with consensus and endowed with the largest budget that had so far been devoted to equality policies, EUR 3,127 million. Ladies and gentlemen, without a doubt the main tool for combating inequality is employment. The Minister of Employment said this last week here in this rostrum: Equal pay begins with equal access to the labour market on an equal footing. And of that, Mrs. Alvarez, unfortunately you few can speak. When the socialists ruled, in that first phase of the crisis Spain brought to Europe 7 out of 10 new stops. The legacy of the previous Government was nearly 1,400,000 women who lost their jobs and an increase of one and a half points in the gender pay gap. That is a social gap, inequality and discrimination against women! [[Mrs. Álvarez Álvarez: That's not true!]] That was the balance that his Government had made on equality. In addition, if we see the latest EPA, we can see how women's unemployment data are and what autonomous communities are the ones that have them higher. It is precisely the autonomous communities historically governed by the Socialist Party that have the highest rates of female unemployment: Andalusia, Extremadura and my land, Castilla-La Mancha. The situation today is different; today women have returned to the labour market. Today Spain has recovered all the female employment that destroyed the crisis under its government. Today, one in two women who leave unemployment in the eurozone are Spanish and nine in 10 people who left unemployment did so with a full-time contract, not to mention measures to support women's entrepreneurship, which has meant that 455,000 women have benefited. In Spain 6 out of 10 new entrepreneurs are women. That's official data. And, of course, I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the wage gap has repercussions not only at the time when women are active at work, but also has discriminatory effects, as Mrs Podemos said, in her social protection during the retirement phase. That is why I would also like to highlight this new pension maternity supplement established by the Government, which came into force on 1 January 2016 in order, in some way, to help women who have had children when this could have meant a brake on their professional career. The reality we have today is totally different. Over the past 20 years, the gender gap in occupation has been reduced by at least half. We have gone from 26 points in 1996 to 11 in 2016, but since the recovery the wage gap in Spain has dropped three points. In Spain no more laws are needed, what is needed is to comply with them, that is what is needed and that is why we have put forward a proposal that goes in line with a new plan to combat the gender pay gap, a plan that we agree with autonomous communities, with social agents, with entrepreneurs, with trade unions and also with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. Mrs Alvarez, you are presenting a new law here, but the reality is that when you govern you do not comply with it I believe that the proposal made by the People's Party is a serious proposal and a realistic one. Over the past five years, the measures taken by the People's Party Government have borne fruit, and what is now being done is to continue to help, collaborate and add to everyone's efforts. There is, of course, still a way to go in order to achieve full equality of opportunity, that is the commitment of the People's Parliamentary Group and that is why I end up with my hand in order to reach an agreement that benefits Spanish women. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor in the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. If you are a woman, you charge an average of 7,123 euros a year less for doing the same job as a man. Given this reality, what do we do? A motion. It is of those days when the people who are watching us will feel ashamed of the fact that we make a simple motion before this reality. [[Applauds]] Yes, here we are once again, for the umpteenth time, demanding in the 21st century the historic claim of the workers' movement summarized in the slogan of: At equal work, equal pay. It is so elementary that today it is assumed by virtually all democratic societies, although, as with so many other things, we are not always consistent with what we preach or with the values we say we defend. Forty years after the massive incorporation of women into the workplace, we are still unbelievably so, with unacceptable wage differences between men and women, so we are going to vote in favour of this motion, demanding that the government make a bill within six months to put an end to this cruel injustice, a bill on equal pay which at the same time includes measures to achieve a 74% employment rate for women, in line with the EU 2020 strategy. For this to happen, urgent measures must be promoted and implemented - I was grateful to hear a moment ago from the colleague of the People's Group and it turns out that it is in her hands whether or not the laws are complied with - in order to alleviate the sad reality that the so-called crisis and the policies of the People's Party have only made worse. In recent years, not only has the wage gap not been narrowed, but it has increased. For example, in 2010, this gap was 22.5 % and four years after 23.39 %, according to official data. It is not acceptable that more than 1.5 million women cover less than EUR 645.30 per month gross and that in the 61% who earn less than the inter-professional minimum wage there are 200,000 more women than in 2010. Women are also affiliated to the agreements with the greatest wage gap, which are, of course, those in which there are companies that, thanks to labour reforms, once again allow lower agreements than those in the sector. Nor is it a question of training, much less, since the average wage of women is more than 20% lower than that of men at all levels of education. And if you're older than 55, the pay gap goes up to 27% less than a man to do the same. The difference in these cases reaches 8,100 euros less per year than a man, inequality that will continue until the day of the death of women, because the pensions, logically, will also be inferior to those of men. In short - I do not want to go any further because talking about this in the 21st century is a real shame for this House - we are talking about that in a democratic society such as that of the Kingdom of Spain, which is certainly much better in many things, there is the exploitation of women's labour and it is unacceptable. That is why we urge the Government to implement urgent measures in an effective and above all law enforcement, please, and nothing else. Let the law be enforced, please, and nothing else. It's pretty simple and whoever makes the pay. How can we allow this exploitation and slavery in the twenty-first century? I find it unacceptable and a shame that we are debating this here today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments, I have to ask Mrs Álvarez Álvarez whether her group accepts any of the amendments. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: We are preparing a text to deal with all the groups that have tabled amendments, which we will pass to the lawyer at a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u113	All right. We shall take this into account at the time of the vote. Thank you very much. - THE JOINT PARLIAMENT GROUP ON REITERATES AND INJURY IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE MEDITERRANEAN CORREDOR. [[Mr Baldoví]] [[File number 173/000017]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u114	It is now appropriate to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví, into the repeated delays and breaches in the construction of the Mediterranean corridor. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to make a preamble. I represent the Valencians with passion and vehemence. Last Wednesday I denounced the unforgivable delays of the Mediterranean Corridor and made a reference to the AVE of Huesca in comparison with the absence of our Mediterranean Corridor. I think my words were misinterpreted and I have received messages of discomfort from Aragonese friends and friends of the CHA, some headline in an Aragonese newspaper and an interpellation from a Member present here. I understand your reasons and believe that in order to defend a just cause that affects the territory that is represented it is not necessary to refer to others; let alone, in my case, to a territory like Aragon with which we share centuries of history and neighborhood and common interests. Use these words to express my desire to clarify my position to all the Aragonese who might have felt upset. And as better than words are the facts, I announce to you that I have presented today a non-law proposal for the ministry to undertake investments in the Zaragoza-Teruel-Sagunto line, in some sections from which it is circulated at 20 kilometers per hour, so that it is done once and for all that corridor that conveys the common interests of Valencians and Aragons. Now I'm going to my motion. This morning we had some hopeful news. In 2016, a new historical peak of Valencian exports was recorded, which are growing above the Spanish average with a value of 28,679 million euros. Seventy per cent of these exports go to Europe despite the burdens, despite this government, without the corridor and with a toll freeway that we have been paying for forty years, which is paid, repaid and repaid. Imagine what we'd be able to do with a finished runner and a toll-free highway. More news this week, four o'clock. Paris and San Sebastian will be connected in 2019 by high speed. I'm really glad. Green light to the surface integration of the railways by Valladolid. I'm really glad. The Minister of Development orders to reactivate the Palencia-Santander line. I'm really glad. The latest news: The government paralyzed in 2012 the Mediterranean corridor despite being bid 634 million in works. I'm obviously not happy about this one. Sometimes both the minister - the other day - and the government delegate in Valencia tell us about the 13 billion invested. I tell you one thing and I'm not going to give you my data, but the Ministry of Finance, the General Intervention. In Mariano Rajoy's years of government, only 35% of the planned investment in Valencian territory has taken place. Therefore, when they talk about those 13 billion I would substantially lower them. There is no need to insist on the data that we pointed out here when I asked the minister about the importance of the Mediterranean Corridor for all the autonomous communities through which it will pass: Andalusia, Murcia Region, the Valencian Autonomous Community and Catalonia. They represent 50 % of the population, 45 % of GDP, 47 % of the productive fabric, 46 % of employment, 51 % of exports, 63 % of goods traffic through ports, 63 % of exporting companies, 61 % of importers or 46 % of companies with technological innovation. Therefore, it is not exaggerated when talking about its importance. Sometimes the feeling that we have is that there is good news in other territories but that these do not reach ours. The time has come for the citizens who live in the Mediterranean to say that it is enough, it is enough for many years of unfulfilled promises, it is enough for many years of delays and it is enough for competitive disadvantages with other regions for which it has been clearly committed and for which I am glad. That is why this motion - and I announce it directly - contains amendments from Citizens, the PSOE and the People's Party, because we want it to be approved, we want them to really start committing themselves, that there are commitments, timetables and that in one year a programming and budget allocation are made; we want the budgets for 2017 and the forecasts for 2018 and 2019 to have open allocations, we want the detailed functions of the technical coordinator of the Mediterranean Corridor to be established, to be taken into account and worked in coordination with the autonomous communities - with Andalusia, with the Region of Murcia, with the Valencian Community, with Catalonia, with the Balearic Islands - and to include the integrations and the railway districts and to complete the implementation of the European wide track. In short, reasonable things, common sense. I'm done. The other day I saw a tweet from the Minister of Development who said: I have informed Miguel Ángel Revilla about the works that the Ministry of Development will do in the Palencia-Santander corridor. There was a picture of the two of them holding hands. It seems to me impeccable - impeccable, I repeat - the position of the minister informing the president of Cantabria. I'm glad for Miguel Ángel Revilla, who is a person I especially like. Well, as a Valencian, I would like the minister to have the same tweet, the same information, the same photo with my president Ximo Puig and with Susana Díaz, the president of Andalusia, and with Pedro Antonio Sánchez, or whoever comes, from Murcia, and with Carles Puigdemont, from Catalonia. Thus, we would probably start to trust and believe that the determination of the Minister and the Government is sincere as far as the Mediterranean corridor is concerned and not as yet. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Cantó García del Moral intervenes, first of all, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first parliamentary initiative presented in this House on the Mediterranean corridor was in 1990. It was introduced curiously by a Valencian Member of Parliament, Mr González Lizondo, and asked the Government to prioritise this infrastructure twenty-seven years ago, ladies and gentlemen. Ten years later, work began and more than seventeen works were carried out. We have been on this subject for almost thirty years and in these thirty years Mr González, Mr Aznar, Mr Zapatero and Mr Rajoy have ruled, and we are still without a Mediterranean corridor. Thirty years ago. [[Applauds]] For an idea to be made, ladies and gentlemen, in thirty years the Panama Canal could be made - in a little bit more - in ten years the Suez Canal was made, right now the Spanish engineers, workers and companies in Mecca are carrying out 19 kilometers a day of AVE, a world record; then it is not an engineering problem, it is a problem of political ineptitude: yours, lords of the Socialist Party, and yours, lords of the People's Party. [[Rumors and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u118	Wait a minute, Mr. Singing. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to remain silent in order to listen to the speaker. The murmuring is growing and in some cases the speaker's voice, which is the one we need to hear, becomes inaudible. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u119	I know this is a kind of infrastructure that you don't like because it's not a result. You like more those fairgrounds that cost millions and remain empty, those airports that do not serve anything, those gigantic cultural spaces that then do not program, etc. That is why, after talking about corruption today, after talking later about depoliticizing justice, we want to talk at once in this House about depoliticizing the infrastructures of this country so that we can end their useless and expensive occurrences and their cost overruns, so that we can do useful things for the Spanish citizens at once. [[Applauds]] That is why my party will promote the creation of a national technical infrastructure assessment office, so that the sad history of this Mediterranean corridor in this country will not be repeated. Transport not only transfers people and goods. Transport creates, transport conditions territories. We are talking, gentlemen of the PP and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, about a tool that cohesion Spain, of a zipper that crosses an area where Catalan secessionists are pulsing us, and you pass from that infrastructure. But, of course, you are more than negotiating with the secessionists by ceding competences without tone or are, by taking a three-per-cent look or inviting the Republican Left, gentlemen of the PP, to skip the law day and day too, to join the Commission of Official Secrets. [[Applauds]] That's how you co-exist. And that's how it works. [[Mr. Rufián pronounces words that are not perceived]] Of course, Mr Rufián, excuse me, then we will say: what could you have failed in the Committee on Official Secrets by inviting Mr Rufián? [[Protests.-Laughter and applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 1,300 kilometers of railway linking Algeciras with the French border, double lane, international width, parking for your trains and connection to the ports. We are talking about 1,300 kilometers that connect with its main market to an area, the Mediterranean arc, which accounts for 46% of GDP, 47% of our population, 48% of our industrial production, 50% of our tourism and 60% of exports to the European Union; a very important area which, as it does not have, does not yet have a toll-free motorway. Today, for an idea to be made, a car manufactured, for example, in the Valencian Community costs several hundred euros more than those manufactured by other countries just because we do not have this Mediterranean corridor. The same is true of our fruit and vegetable production, our marble, our ceramics, our components, etc. And that, ladies and gentlemen, means less sales, less wealth for our country, less jobs and, therefore, less resources to devote to our education, our health or our pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a policy that prioritizes what is useful for the citizens and forgets what happens, let the technicians work, let them not cheat, gentlemen of the PP, let them not cheat. You vote in favour of the Mediterranean Corridor in Les Corts, Valencia, and then here, in the Madrid Assembly, you vote in favour of the Central Corridor. They're diverting funds from the first to invest them in the second. It is not a question of resources, there is no lack of resources for this investment. With the sad history of corruption in this country we could have made three or four Mediterranean corridors. I'm gonna finish it. We have been waiting twenty-seven years for this infrastructure to be carried out. I have already explained that it is not a question of technical skill nor of resources nor of technical capacity. We have been waiting for twenty-seven years, almost thirty years, Socialist Party and People's Party. You and you have shown your incompetence, so step aside and let the professionals do their job, because you are costing us too much. [[Applauds]] Now for allusions, if I may, President, I just wanted to answer Mr Yllanes. I don't know where you are after the purge, Mr. Yllanes. Down there. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u120	Mr. Singing, you have to finish because you've finished your shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u121	It's about allusions, President. If not, I'll have to intervene later. Mr. Yllanes, doing the job we get paid for is not sucking camera. Sucking a camera is bringing a baby instead of taking it to the nursery. [[Laughs and applause.- Rumors.-Mr. Yllanes Suárez makes gestures from the seat]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u122	Mr. Cantó, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u123	Sucking camera is setting up a seat in the Lost Steps Hall.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u124	Mr. Singing...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u125	Sucking the camera is putting together a daily brush with your purging partner. [[Mr Yllanes Suárez asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u126	Mr. Cantó, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u127	Sucking camera is giving a beak to everyone who crosses you in the way. [[Mr Yllanes Suárez continues to ask for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u128	Mr Cantó, this is not just about the fact that you had already completed your speaking time, but I also understand that if you wanted to ask for a round of remarks you should have done so as the Rules of Procedure state. In any case, I believe that the matter of allusions has already been sufficiently clarified. [[Protests.-Several Members: No!-Mr Yllanes Suárez makes negative gestures]] On successive occasions, when they wish to make use of the speaking shift, they must do so on a regular basis and on the basis of the Article of the Rules of Procedure which allows such intervention and not during the speaking shift. We continue with the debate. [[Protests.-Mr. Yllanes continues to ask for the word]] I am not opening a debate, I say again. There is no repetition of allusions, Mr Yllanes, and this is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. [[Mr. Yllanes Suárez: I don't want to replicate anything]] We continue with the debate. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ábalos Meco has the floor. Mr Ábalos Meco: Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. The truth is that Mr Cantó's speech has left me a little puzzled at the end, because this of inviting political parties to withdraw and inviting professionals to make political decisions is as if we had to close this Parliament. I get it that way. I do not know what technocratic regime you are proposing, but of course it has very little democratic character. In any case, when you referred to Mr Gonzalo Elizondo, I thought you would refer to yourself, when you were in UPyD, for having bestowed this glory on UPyD. [[Applauds]] Finally, I will emerge from the unnecessary controversy and I will confine myself to claiming an infrastructure because I believe that today that is the right thing to do, that we leave the whole House claiming an infrastructure from which no one is marginalized or separated; it seems to be part of the common sense in this House. I would like to reproduce a few words from my colleague Joan Ruiz because I think he did it very well and, therefore, we must repeat them. And it is that creating jobs and getting out of the crisis requires, among other measures, properly connecting industrial areas, logistics areas and consumption areas. And our Mediterranean coast, because of its economic, industrial, service, tourist, of all kinds, because of its population density - as has already been said here, 47% of the Spanish population - requires a rail corridor with high performance, high capacity, with international width for both goods and passengers, which would certainly help to create wealth and thus also increase employment. This corridor is essential to ensure a solid and balanced economic development, but not only for the communities in which some of us live and are born - Andalusia, Catalonia, Valencia, Murcia - but also for the whole of Spain because, ultimately, the economic benefit is for the whole of Spain. Some figures make their importance clear and here they have been repeated until exhaustion. This has been said by previous fellow Members, but since some ministers in the current Government say that the importance has been exaggerated, we should perhaps go too far in repeating this information in order to understand that it is not a regional but a national issue. Because the communities we have mentioned, as has been said here, account for 47% of the Spanish population, more than 46% of GDP - as I know it has been said, but at best we must insist that it is indeed strategic - about 50% of agricultural production, 48% of Spanish industrial production, 60% of exports, 55% of land-based freight traffic, 65% of maritime traffic and 50% of tourism. But this trans-European network, which will be joined by Europe from north to south over 3,500 kilometres, represents 54% of the European population and 66% of GDP. It is therefore a fundamental work that, in addition, also seeks to change the classical radial vision with a centre and a periphery and to continue to create a Spain in network within a Europe in network. It is important for other markets because this network will also increase the European Union's relations with Africa and Asia. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we have a work that we cannot delay any longer. I would like to make it clear, because it has already been said and will also be said below, that the Socialists have always been in favour of this corridor. An important bet between 2004 and 2011 that involved the execution of more than 10 billion euros in the governments of Rodríguez Zapatero. If we take into account its first budget, 2005, works worth EUR 1,428 million per year were carried out. I say this because, like all catastrophes, we have to place them at that time, at least let go of some objective data. With all the economic difficulties of 2010 and 2011, more than 3 billion euros were invested and in 2011 exactly 1.7 billion euros, all in the midst of the crisis. In addition, it must be remembered that it was that socialist government that negotiated and managed to get the European Commission to incorporate it into the basic transport network, which from there has meant financing by the European Union. As from the arrival of the popular government there have been delays in the schedule, deficiencies in the planning and execution of works - in fact, the AVE to Castellón should have arrived in 2015, according to the then Minister of Development and today President of this House -, it is really very appropriate and convenient the motion presented by comrade Baldoví and therefore we will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Ábalos. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Barrachina Ros has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to see an agreement in this infrastructure, of which we have implemented 81% and already invested 13,500 of the EUR 17 billion, to complete it. Therefore, my group has the best disposition. After having heard that Spain in black and white, these interventions and even an interpretation of: let us put aside the politicians that we now come to govern this country; after that catastrophic and third worldist diagnosis that I have just heard I want to value a couple of data, which are not of this Government or of the former, are of the country. Last year 75 million foreigners came to suffer, to pass penalties, to ill-live this country called Spain. Those 75 million foreigners - who do not use the data of the PP, those of the Compromís and those of the PSOE - are asked when they leave the country what they think of it, and there is a survey of the degree of satisfaction of the tourists that would surprise this Parliament, after the third world and white and black Spain that have moved the rest of the parties, because foreigners say that they like the accommodation very much, in Spain they stay well, and give it a 7.9; they say they like the food of Spain very much and give it to gastronomy 8 points; moreover, in Spain there is a lot of offer of leisure, the nights in Spain are eternal, give them a 7.6, and finally, the infrastructures give them an 8.2. [[A Member of Parliament: Ole!-Applause]] Use of rail transport, 8.2; and when asked specifically for infrastructure, 8.1. They are not third worldists who are lucky enough to visit Spain and go to the Mediterranean; they are, first, British; second, French, and third, German. And they put us almost an outstanding in infrastructure. It is quite simple, when a German returns to Germany he tells the truth. In Spain they have five times more miles of AVE per inhabitant than in Germany. In France, which is the second country, they have three times less; we are the first country, the first nation in the world in kilometers of AVE per inhabitant. It is insufficient, Spain deserves more. The story I have heard here, absolutely castrated, of the Mediterranean corridor - which is the corridor that has to unite Andalusians, Batians, Valencians, like me, and Catalans with the rest of Europe - is quite simple. You don't have to go back to the '90s, no. On one morning in July 2010, a minister, a single minister, paralyzed seventy works, including all that could affect the Mediterranean corridor. One minister. Summer 2010. That same minister said in 2011 that they would be able to make a stretch, one of the six, between my province, Castellón, and Valencia, but that it would be - because there was no money - with public-private funding. The left gave up building a public Mediterranean corridor, resigned. The last statements were: let's try to get public-private funding. And, as Don Miguel de Cervantes said, that minister looked out, went and there was nothing. [[Laughter and applause]] To this situation emerged in 2011 three conditions were added, three limits that affected the Mediterranean corridor and all its infrastructures: one, a small budget hole of 100 billion euros per year; the other, a small invoice of 40 billion dollars in completed and unpaid public works, and finally a income problem of 3,700,000 Spaniards fired on the left of their jobs and who cannot make their public contribution. With these three problems there was a government in 2012 that approved the complete layout, the overall plan of installation at European width for the more than 1,000 kilometers of the Mediterranean corridor; the same government that in November 2013 managed to get the European Union to incorporate us into the trans-European transport network; the same government that managed to implement 81 %. I was lucky, like the proposer, Mr Baldoví, to be able to come to AVE from Valencia in this disconnected Spain. We could have also come by highway and even by plane - and we are disconnected by 48%! - but it will allow me to go to Castellón in the coming months instead of in three and a half hours or three hours and a quarter in two and twenty hours. Spain does not have a planning problem - it is all planned by the millimeter -, it has a budgetary problem and you know who created it and who is solving it with the desire to continue to solve it together, because this is not a thing of one against another, it is a thing of the whole of the Spaniards, who are able to enjoy a good level of infrastructure and, in particular, the citizens of the Valencian Community, Murcia, Andalusia and Catalonia deserve to conclude the corridor in the shortest possible time. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u131	Thank you very much, Mr Barrachina. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u132	I shall speak briefly, ladies and gentlemen. Friends of Compromís, friend Baldoví, as it could not be otherwise, we will support this motion and we do so because we understand, as you have repeatedly said, that rail transport, like all types of transport, is an element of cohesion, of union. We too have been vindicating him for a long time, though with unequal luck, as you know. We do not want this debate to fuel in any way a kind of confrontation between axes. Obviously, the satisfaction of the Mediterranean axis cannot be compared with the Atlantic axis. In some ways, we are missing a more objective programming of investments in this area, which should not have led to such claims if it were not because there has been no more than rather capricious and unwarranted actions. It has not been justified on the basis of the general interest what should have been vertebral elements of all kinds of territories. In this sense, as a Basque nationalist, as an independentist, my role is not to move away from me or to put any kind of border or barrier, but my role, that of the Basque Nationalist Party, that of the Basque Group, has been to coordinate with the rest of the territory of the State and even, above all, with Europe, with which we must indeed link. [[The lady]] Although for a long time the oldest project that exists in the field of railway interterritorial cohesion has been the so-called Basque Greek Y, and also that of the third thread that could connect the transport of goods, although we are late and despite the fact that we have been given the good news - that Joan Baldoví has also reminded us - that it is possible that in 2019 the high-speed train from Paris to Donosti can arrive, the truth is that this debate should not make us forget that, despite that constructive attitude that we have always had, however we have not always been subject to the same degree of respect when other federated formations with you have tried to prevent and voted against the construction of that railway axis in the Basque Country, which would also serve to cohesion up or down, to Europe or to Spain, in any way. That is why we are going to support this request, because we believe that the Mediterranean axis is a vertebrate axis towards all sides. But it's also a fair request. We also demand the same measure of respect for the Basques. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u133	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u134	Very good evening to all of you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Singing, with all due respect to the world, let me tell you that here the only secret, whether official or not, is to know what political space you will be in in a few days. [[Laughter and applause]] A minute ago, I was looking for him and I was thinking: I hope Mr. Singed to listen to me. And I saw him talking to Ana Oramas and I said, "Well, Canary Coalition!" [[Laughter and applause]] I don't know, it could be too. After almost five hours of plenary - a bit surrealist too, let me say it, and seeing your faces eagerly reconcile your intimate and family life with working life - let me tell you a story in less than five minutes; four minutes specifically. Its title: Madrid, capital of the Mediterranean corridor. In the 16th century, in 1580, at the height of the empire of Philip II, an engineer who was very ingenious, named Antonelli, presented to the monarch a plan to widen the Tagus and Manzanares rivers from Lisbon to Madrid, passing through Toledo, so that the Spanish galleons could arrive without any problem loaded with gold and spices to the capital. In the 21st century, specifically in 2017, Mariano Rajoy resumed his mandate after eleven months in office and at that time the media and popular eye pointed to who his new ministers would be, who would accompany him in this second stage. The truth is that there was some expectation and, in the field of Development, too. Well, the new headline, Íñigo de la Serna, who was appointed minister, took a few days - very few, very few - to announce that he would create the figure of the coordinator of the Mediterranean corridor. I must tell you that in my people, a small people, when something is really important and at the same time who can make it possible believe that it is not so important, what it does is to create the figure of the coordinator so that it actually uncoordinated what in principle seemed important. Well, the Minister of Development created the figure of a coordinator; a coordinator who, according to the new delegate of the government, Mr Enric Millo, is very important - Catalans, listen well! - because this coordinator is not extremist, this coordinator is neither much less cantabrian nor resides on Perejil Island: he is Catalan. Great news! For, ladies and gentlemen, no matter how Catalan the chosen one is, today this action, which I do not know whether or not to subscribe to within the dialogue operation, but which is actually coordination, is nothing more than the symbolic culmination of a commitment that is just symbolic. Many gestures, many winks, symbolism, false promises, falsehoods, little commitment, little strategy and too much nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mediterranean corridor is an imperative necessity. It is imperative that this form part of the agendas of the Spanish and French Governments in an absolutely priority way. This infrastructure is not a whim, it is a tremendous priority, absolutely indefatigable, and it is because the data highlight its importance: 44 % of the GDP of the whole State is concentrated on this axis, more than 50 % of exports and imports, etc. We have spoken about it, Mr Baldoví has explained it and has therefore made himself known. This corridor, which would lead the European communities by train and which integrates the territories of the Mediterranean arc, such as Andalusia, Murcia, País Valencià and Catalonia, today brings together all - I say all - the political, economic and social actors of this arc and, at the same time, the European Commission. But the government of Rajoy, De la Serna and its coordinator prefer to pay - attention!- with the funds destined to the Spanish state to build the Mediterranean corridor the union of the station of Atocha with the station of Chamartin, the two Madrid stations that are not connected with the high speed line, a work of almost billion euros paid with matches directed to another axis that is still to be vertebrate. I'm done. In short, the story ends. Another example in the 21st century, which, together with that of the 16th century, demonstrates its commitment, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, to clinging to the most absolute irrationality. Breakfast in Valencia, meet in Barcelona in the morning, do it again in Alicante and get home to sleep. This is the dream of the Mediterranean Corridor, that dream that can be reality. Today, it is up to you to write the end of the story. Abandon this political myopia and embrace one of the infrastructures that will allow you to travel faster, do it more often and boost the economy, tourism and employment. Nothing more. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u135	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Alonso Cantorné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Furthermore, I am very pleased that you are presiding over the House at this time because we missed it a few minutes ago. Thank you. [[Applauds]] Mariano Rajoy likes to walk fast, not run. 'Quick Walking' was the motto of one of the People's Party's campaigns for the June 26 elections. Mr. President, he's not here, and I like cycling, although he's more of a brand and I'm of Sport. One of the things that I'm sure we both agree on is that, sportingly speaking, the Mediterranean Corridor is not a Corridor; we could call it the Mediterranean Turtle, but not a Corridor. From a geographical point of view, it is. It is a corridor that may have deviations depending on the minister occupying the portfolio. A few days ago we were surprised by the news that within the investment of the corridor is that of the tunnel between Atocha and Chamartin. It must be true that of 'From Madrid to Heaven' or, as is commonly said, 'All roads lead to Rome'. This situation would not worry us at all if the corridor, the original one, which, as everyone has said, concentrates 48 % of the population, 45 % of GDP, 50 % of exports and 47 % of enterprises, were to continue. In the coming months, he is neither expected nor expected, and that which in megaphony announced him without delays for 2016. It is a corridor that must connect Andalusia - without forgetting Granada - with the Region of Murcia, the Valencian Community and Catalonia and that must also join the ports of Algeciras, Valencia, Tarragona and Barcelona. To connect the ports are in no hurry, but they do have it to fire the stovemen with public money and re-defeat the working class, their real goal. But let's go back to the Mediterranean turtle. One, who is curious, searching among different answers that in his day other parliamentarians made, since the questions I asked in September still have no answer - I sincerely believe they do not know how to answer them - I have found a date in this House on November 20, 2013, that the deputy of Tarragona, Don Jordi Jané i Guasch, of the Catalan Parliamentary Group - which, by the way, no longer exists - made to the Minister of Development, Mrs Ana Pastor Julián. [[Convergence and Union]] Minister de Fomento, Pastor Julián, said: Mr Jané, we are making a very important effort in Catalonia, and specifically in the province of Tarragona. Notice, at a time like this one of crisis, more than 400 million euros is the budget of the province. Of these, more than 200 million are for railways. That is where we look, Your Honor, at these actions to which you have referred. We are working, as you have indicated, on adapting the width of the UIC from the Castellbisbal section to Vilaseca for more than 100 million euros, on the works of the high speed line between Vandellós and Tarragona, with 108 million euros. We are writing the informative study of this very important connection between the traditional line Vilaseca-Tarragona-Barcelona, in which we will implement the third lane, and the high-speed line Madrid-Barcelona, in the environment of L'Arboç. And also in the drafting of the project for the implementation of the third lane between Vilaseca and Reus, and in the construction of a wide changer in the Tarragona environment. All this, Your Honor, is indeed important measures, which require, as you are well aware, in-depth technical studies, which are completed and, therefore, as I say to you, we will start already the projects and the information studies, so that in the province of Tarragona there will be a perfect interconnection between all that is the conventional network and the high speed network and, above all, we will allow more cities to access, as you have said, at high speed. Therefore, Your Honor, not only do I fully agree, but, as I committed myself to that meeting, the tasks of both the informative study and of something as important as the project - said Mrs Pastor - are under way. To this day, after three Ministers of Development and four years, we continue to ask ourselves: What is the timetable planned and updated by the Government to complete the construction of road and rail accesses in the international width? What is the current state of the information projects and/or studies presented by the Minister at that time, today President of Congress - which I am glad to see - in parliamentary office on November 20, 2013? Ladies and gentlemen, neither on 20 December nor 26 June was there an assault on the skies. As long as that doesn't happen and it isn't always no, I make you a proposal to finish the Mediterranean turtle: please appoint Mr Roca, Member of our province's Parliament, who is the safest way for a PP minister to comply with Tarragona. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u137	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Baldoví i Roda whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u138	We will present a text negotiated with the Socialist Party, with Citizens and with the People's Party, which collects everything. So I'll introduce you in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u139	Thank you very much. [[Mrs Montero Gil asks for the floor]] Mrs. Montero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u140	By 71.3 I wanted to ask for a speaking time. You weren't, but Mr. Prendes was, and we talked to him.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u141	Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u142	Mr Toni Cantó, the Spanish and the Spanish are well aware of their tone outings on Twitter, but this is not Twitter, it is the Congress of Deputies. And I, with all the love in the world, am going to...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u143	Your Honor, one second. Wait. You have to refer exclusively to the article. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u144	In referring to your words, I ask you two things: one, that you learn to use the time of allusions under the Rules of Procedure and, two, that you withdraw your words and apologize for trying to offend my group and Mr Yllanes from my parliamentary group. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u145	Mr. Singing.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Montero, I don't take my words back. You have very fine skin. Learn from Mr. Rufián. [[Protests. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. [[Rumors]] I remind you that we must remain silent. - THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON REPUBLICAL DISCUSSION, ON THE CASTRAL REGULATION OF THE ASSIGNMENT OF THE VALUE OF RUSTIC, AGRICULTURAL, GANADERAS AND FORESTAL CONSTRUCTIONS. [[File number 173/000018]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u148	We move on to the motion of urgent inquiry, by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, on the cadastral regulation of the allocation of the value of rural, agricultural, livestock and forestry constructions. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before I go into this matter, I would like to remind you that today, 21 February, is International Mother Language Day. The use of mother tongues is an essential component of quality education and is the basis for empowering individuals and their societies. This Chamber is also nicknamed the temple of the word, so in Republican Left we hope that in the near future in this space we can talk about everything and do it in the mother tongue of each of us. Catalan, Basque, Galician, as well as the other non-official languages of the State, as well as linguistic realities, are a cultural heritage of what the Spanish State is today and, unfortunately, are forgotten and marginalized from such important spaces as this Congress of Deputies itself. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u150	One second, Your Honor. I remind you, Your Honor, that you have to get to the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u151	Right now, President. In this regard, last week we discussed with Minister Montoro the need to prepare for this same legislature a specific presentation of rustic property, a need that has become pressing in the face of the problems of overvaluing the constructions indispensable for agricultural activity, which has generated precisely the application of the current cadastral regulation procedure from 2013 to 2016. As we have already mentioned at the time, these problems were created precisely by calculating the value of these agricultural constructions on the basis of the presentation of urban values; of course, they would be presentations with totally different criteria. At present, at the request of even the owner, the regional managements of the Catastro are forced to give partial solutions without having a clear and uniform regulation, fact that accentuates even the current relief. I will not go back to assessing the error of applying that procedure, in any case the important thing here is to go ahead with the motion. Although I would like to recall that in the debate Minister Montoro intended to delegitimize our initiative by blaming our lack of willingness to participate, through our Catalan Government, in the forthcoming review of the reform of the public administration financing system. Again I insist that you are mixing things up, these are two procedures that do not necessarily have to go hand in hand and if not, tell me why you insist right now, when the Financing Law has been postponed since 2009 while in 2012 the law amending the Royal Decree 1/2004, of the Law on Real Property Disaster, was passed. These are two processes, therefore, that have gone in parallel. This is a story that we see repeated in one of the amendments tabled by the Joint Group itself at the request of Mr Isidro Martínez de Foro, and which, therefore, we cannot accept in this respect. But let us now put aside this debate as to whether or not it is legitimate for our group to table this motion and focus on the proposal itself, which is really what we have come for and what is being asked of us. The proposal basically contains two points: first, to adopt the necessary regulatory rules to enable a specific Rustic presentation to be drawn up according to the differentiated urban criteria, which is now being applied precisely on the basis of specific Rustic criteria. In this regard, and taking into account the amendment tabled by the PSOE, the following criterion should be taken into account in the preparation of the presentation: the prices of the real estate market for rustics do not differ significantly between contiguous municipalities, but rather meet criteria of types of land use, types of crops and livestock. Therefore, these are criteria that will have to be taken into account when actually drawing up this rustic presentation and that have absolutely nothing to do with the criteria that are being applied from the urban presentation. This is where we'd have to go to work. As such, it should be noted that the application of this criterion would avoid the elaboration of more than 8,000 papers, one for each municipality. Therefore, it will have to really consider at a technical level what it means to work with specific paper on rustics. The other point that we believe is important to highlight is that as long as the specific rustic presentation is not approved, it is necessary to design and apply specific reducing coefficients different from those contained in the current regulations, which are really adapted to the needs and in order to try to really correct the inequalities that currently exist. Finally, whatever is decided in this Chamber, bear in mind that with this topic... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u152	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u153	To conclude, what is finally decided in this Chamber must be borne in mind that with this topic we have a serious problem that has generated, still generates and will continue to generate grievances and differences precisely in those owners whose farms have buildings indispensable for agricultural activity. We believe that it is now when it is necessary to embark or regulate what these aggravations and inequalities would be from the elaboration of a specific rustic presentation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u154	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca is speaking first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u155	Thank you, Madam President. The process of cadastral regularization that comes from the legislative changes that were adopted in the 10th Legislature is sowing uncertainty in the agro-gaining world because it can have an impact on certain constructions or buildings indispensable for agricultural, livestock or forestry farms that are on rustic soil, assigning values that have nothing to do with the reality of our rural cores. It is the unique case of the horreos, paneras and cabazos Asturianos and Gallegos, but also that of stables and other rural buildings that so far were exempt from taxation and should continue to be exempt. If this regularization is not done well, it will in practice have a tax effect, in the case of the IBI, but also an impact on capital gains, property transfer tax and documented legal acts in the case of sales, inheritances, donations and IRPF among others, which must be modulated to avoid unfair treatment, legal insecurity and unjustified economic damage. Therefore, the process of cadastral regularization has to limit the penalties and correctly identify what are properties or buildings of forest land use of which they are not. In the interpellation, the Minister of Finance linked this whole process last week to the reform of the existing system of financing of the autonomous and local communities that we in Forum consider essential, to the point that it had already had to be faced because in 2009 it was not supported by the majority of the autonomous communities affected and broke the principle of solidarity that, according to our Constitution, must inform the relations between the different territories of Spain. The commitment of the Government, which Forum shares and urges its implementation, is important. This prevents us from supporting in its terms this motion by Esquerra Republicana, although we have wanted to amend it with a text of amendment which calls on the Government to take different measures to undertake a new funding system, but also to support the development of the rural world. This amendment has four points, although Mr Eritja has just said that he is not going to accept them and we will therefore vote against this initiative by the Republican Left. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u156	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Group, Mr Postius Terrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u157	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to the proposal before us today, the Democratic Party seems to us to be a good starting point and we will therefore support it. However, we have tabled two amendments to ensure that this proposal does not fall into a broken bag. Firstly, we are presenting an amendment to make it very clear that until a specific rustic presentation is made, catastrophic assessments of agricultural, livestock or forestry construction on rustic soil must be stopped and all the dossiers currently under way must be suspended. Secondly, we also call for the repeal of the regulatory provision that was adopted in 2012 and that has caused us to now find ourselves in such an unfair situation for farm owners in rural areas. And it is that the Catastro lives so alien to the reality that it turns out that today it is valuing agricultural constructions, warehouses or farms at a price four or five times higher than its real value. We therefore believe that this process, as it is being carried out, has a clear confiscatory desire, with serious economic damage for citizens living or working in rural areas. Therefore, as I said at the beginning, we will support this proposal and I hope that our amendments will be incorporated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u158	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u159	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let me ask you this: Do you see just how a small farmer who has on his farm a raft for the irrigation of his crops pays for that raft the same as someone who has a pool in his cottage? Do you think it's fair that a farmer who has a cottage in the field to keep his apprehensions pay the same as someone who has an industrial ship? You will agree with me, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not fair. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u160	One second, Your Honor, one second. Ladies! [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Sicilia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u161	Thank you, Madam President. I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen - surely many have not seen their IBI increase unjustly, and that is why they find the issue very unsettling - that if it seems fair to them that someone who has a water raft to water their crops pays the same as someone who has a pool. Obviously, it does not seem fair or logical to us, but that is happening in our country in many territories as a result of the disastrous management that the People's Party has made of the cadastral regularization procedure 2013-2016, which the PP government itself approved in Law 16/2012. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, on 16/2012, amended the law on real estate by introducing two new additional provisions, the third and the fourth, which have created a very serious problem for many farmers and farmers in our country. As a result of this change, the General Directorate of the Catastro initiates a process to bring new constructions or alterations to these existing constructions that had not been incorporated into the Catastro. So far there's nothing to object to. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, arises when the General Directorate of the Catastro initiates a process to assign catastrophic values to agricultural, livestock or forestry constructions that did not have catastrophic value yet fixed. And it is that under that additional provision, ladies and gentlemen, an assessment is introduced to agricultural constructions with urban valuations; that is, a presentation of urban values is used to fix catastrophic values to something as urban - let me be ironic - as a caseta of apparments, a farm or a irrigation raft. It is a veritable misconception, a misconception that has caused excessive valuations and tremendous injustices to our farmers and farmers, who have seen - I insist - how these agricultural constructions now have a serious impact on their economy and on their ability to cope with the rest of the payments. Before we continue, let me make it clear to you that my group is not asking to support those who did not discharge in the Catastro, their constructions or the modification of them. We also do not ask to stop making such catastral regulations - let it be clear - ex officio, but a house in the field must have the proper cadastral valuation and its owner has to pay the IBI that corresponds to it. Now, nothing has to do with what is happening and is that today a farm that is closed and in disuse is paying the same as an industrial ship, today a farm is having the same cadastral valuation as a farm. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of many farmers who have been the subject of this cadastral regularisation is not only that they have to pay more IBI, which is already serious, an excessive IBI without a doubt, but it has also meant an increase in their wealth. That increase in wealth is unreal - because it is not true - and has caused in some cases they have to pay more taxes - for example, if they want to make any transactions - or they cannot access scholarships for their daughters and children as they were doing until then. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a new problem. He didn't just show up. This is something the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces warned you a few months ago. She also warned the Ombudsman. Agrarian professional organizations and many political parties, including mine, have also warned this. Almost a year ago in the Senate this same motion was debated and a few months ago my parliamentary group presented an initiative in the Register warning of it and asking for solutions from the Government. But what has the government done? Nothing, absolutely nothing. The Ministry of Agriculture has neither done nor said anything, although the agricultural professional organizations have asked it to mediate. Although little can be expected of a ministry such as that of Agriculture, which has been unable to prevent the Treasury from cutting its budget year after year, little can be expected of a government such as that of the People's Party and Mr Rajoy, who in his one-hour investiture speech devoted not a single word to agriculture and livestock in our country.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u162	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u163	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, today you have the opportunity to ask your Government to correct this unjust situation which is suffering thousands of farmers. Leave the excuses that were released in the Senate a year ago. Do not repeat to us the same speech the minister made just a week ago throwing balloons out and not getting into the matter. I ask you to approve this motion. My group will do so by incorporating the amendment that has accepted the Republican Left. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, I ask you to be sensitive to the agricultural and rural world and to solve a problem that thousands of farmers have in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u164	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree with the proposing group on the need to approve the presentation of catastrophic values of rusticism. The so-called rural disaster discriminates against people living in and in rural environments. [[Rumors]] Being environments usually forgotten by the Administration, they are now discriminated against for two reasons that I am going to expose. The first is that they do not enjoy the same services and infrastructure as urban environments, but their buildings are valued equally. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u166	Quiet, please. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u167	Only correction coefficients derived from the market reference are applied, and that is discrimination. The second is that the census is carried out by a flight without a physical visit and without certification of the condition and use of the buildings. Doesn't that sound like discrimination to you? Ladies and gentlemen, in Citizens we do not want owners to pay less or to pay more, but to pay justly. The means to achieve this are, on the one hand, to fix the values of the buildings of the rustic soil through an agreement of the rural presentation. We are glad that the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left left its separatist monotheme and thought about the citizens of the Spanish rural environment. Welcome. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, industrial farms must be differentiated from traditional and family farms, since the latter are a way of life and not a business. Innovating, professionalising and internationalising the agri-food sector results in an increase in rural income and this, as I explained to the Minister last Wednesday, plays an important role in the exit from the crisis. However, the rural environment is not reduced to this sector. In rural areas, people who deserve to enjoy all the infrastructure and services, both health and education, live. That is why we are calling for an agreement to put on paper the issues that have remained with him. Ladies and gentlemen, in rural areas the population is an average age of 50 years, indicating that there is a high percentage of pensioners who are unable to bear more tax burdens, especially when the agricultural pension does not usually exceed EUR 600 per month. Has anyone thought of them by regularising at a rate of EUR 60 per management expenditure for each rustic building? Have your circumstances been taken into account when the cadastral value of your home has increased with a retroactive effect over the last four years? Has it been thought that the result of the sum of contributions may exceed your monthly pension? Looks like no one's ever been able to think about it. Similarly, it seems that no one has been worthy to see how more than 50% of the rustic buildings are empty or in a ruinous state. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 50% of the properties do not yield economically, but for them their owners pay as if they were urban. Isn't this, as we said at first, a discriminatory act? They will now understand that the rural world interprets this cadastral review as a measure motivated solely by collective interests. Ladies and gentlemen, the development potential of the rural world - forestry, environment, tourism, energy - is shared by all the spokespersons of the Committee on Agriculture. We are therefore going to ask the Minister for tax initiatives not only to raise, but to stimulate new investments in rural areas: investments that enhance rural R & D, encourage the use of new technologies, improve working and management methods to achieve greater productivity and profitability. These investments will encourage the creation of new skilled jobs, reduce the unemployment rate, especially for young people, attract resources and prevent depopulation; because investing in rural areas is to make it attractive for those who want to develop a career and a life project in these environments. For example, establishing a forest sector activation plan could generate an additional 100,000 jobs. Is it not a clear example of the sector's potential? Does not the elimination, among other things, of the tax on transfers of assets for agricultural activities seem to them to contribute to the incorporation of young people into these activities? In short, gentlemen of the PP, to comply with point 28 of our agreement, in which we committed ourselves to the defence of the rural environment, is to comply with this commitment through agri-food activity, as any other economic activity that can be developed, generating wealth, generating employment, activating policies for development and, above all, against the depopulation of the rural world. We want rural dwellers to stop having reason to feel discriminated against and considered second-rate citizens. That is why we will continue to bet on the rural world and vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, until there is no silence, I will not call any speakers. I remind you that a number of interventions are missing. Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Carreño Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u169	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the United Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea we announce our vote in favour of the Republican Left proposal on the cadastral regulation of the allocation of the value of rustic, agricultural, livestock and forestry constructions. The aim of this proposal is to remedy one of the many fiscal burdens that Mr Montoro - which unfortunately he is not - has carried out, and it is that those who presume to be able to govern have done nothing but accumulate legislative disasters behind their backs in the various areas but which are of particular relevance in fiscal matters. We are referring, for example, to the increase in VAT, including cultural VAT, which the Minister did not know, which was carried out at the same time as a tax amnesty which Mr Bárcenas was able to benefit from; I imagine it will also be unknown to the Minister. We are also referring to the 2015 tax reform, which they pushed only as an electoral measure, which cost us 8 billion euros and which almost cost us a fine from Brussels. But we are going to the extent that we are dealing with today and that refers to the updating of the cadastral value that Mr Montoro designed and was placed in Law 16/2012, of consolidation of public finances and impulse to economic activity. I would like to refer to the third additional provision, concerning the cadastral regularisation procedures from 2013 to 2016, and to the fourth additional provision, which concerns the assessment of the constructions essential for the development of farms, livestock or forestry located on rustic soil. This measure in the rural world has been so disastrous that it has raised complaints from a multitude of groups. COAG, for example, has denounced the effect of this law, as it has led to an inordinate increase in the cadastral value which is totally unabated for farmers and livestock farmers. For its part, UPA, the Union of Small Farmers, complains that it has received numerous complaints from people dedicated to agriculture who have undergone catastrophic reviews and which have resulted in a sharp increase in the tax on real estate. Asaja, the Agricultural Association of Young Farmers, has also denounced the excessive collection of this measure. It is clear that Mr Montoro has a great capacity to bring collectives against him. This law is plagued with errors, some of which have been patching up as problems have arisen. With the application of this law many farmers and livestock farmers saw the value of taxes increased without in fact having had any increase in value or income. Taxes were unjustly increased by equalizing the value of agricultural-use constructions with industrial ones. In addition, taxes were increased to pay both for buildings that increase value, as is the case with a construction for post-harvest management, such as warehouses or grain warehouses, and for those buildings that do not generate any increase in value, such as houses of apparments, ships or even sheds, which serve only to store straw. In short, catastrophic assessments have been made that do not correspond to reality. I understand, Mr Montoro - even if he is not - that you have problems in qualifying and taxing the buildings on rustic soil if you still believe that Mr Pedro Sanz's 155-square-metre chalet in La Rioja is a home of apprehensions, as the ex-autonomous president claimed. But I assure you that normally farmers' farm houses do not have two floors or a swimming pool and, as I said, they do not generate any performance, so they should not increase IBI collection through these constructions. We believe, however, that it is necessary to increase public resources and the more efficient use of IBI to close the public revenue gap that Spain has with Europe and that you have only helped to increase. But this has to be done through an orderly, progressive tax reform, and in the case of the IBI, taking into account the role that rural areas and farms should play in the vertebration of the territory. To collect more with this tax we recommend, for example, that they burn at once the property owned by the Church. Finally, this measure shows his Government's sensitivity to the role that rural environment should play in our country's productive model. Let me say, Mr Montoro, that the reality of farming in recent years has worsened by the low price of products and the high price of inputs. Agricultural profitability has fallen by 2.5% on average annually over the last ten years. Faced with this reality in our rural world, you have opted for fiscal regulation that has increased taxes on farmers and farmers unjustifiably. These kinds of actions do not bring us closer, but rather take us away from a living and sustainable rural world. Therefore, from the United States We can demand an orderly, non-improvised fiscal policy that gives the necessary legal certainty to economic operators and that it is progressive and fair and allows to increase public revenues by taxing the great fortunes, the great assets, the big enterprises, that is to say, those who have the most, instead of always burdening families with the tax debt. Moreover, this fiscal policy must take into account the special characteristics of the rural world. For this reason, we need to establish a correct criterion for the assessment of agricultural and livestock constructions located on rustic soil. We need to reverse the tendency to depopulation and the abandonment of the rural environment so that our peoples do not disappear, so that our peoples do not die. That is why we demand a fiscal policy that does not punish and crush the lives of farmers and farmers, a fiscal policy that ultimately allows us to have a living rural world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u170	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Llorens Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u171	Welcome, gentlemen of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, to the connection with reality, to which, bringing to Congress today this initiative, interests and matters all Catalans and all Spaniards. It is a timely and reasonable concern that you did not feel in 2005 when Mr Zapatero, your partner in the Government of the Generalitat, was in office. A law of the real estate register was then adopted for the cadastral valuation of the buildings incorporated for the agricultural activity through a procedure of collective valuation and a transitional period of ten years, which is what Mr Zapatero did, to leave everything for the others. Ten years have passed and only 2,800 municipalities have fulfilled their obligations. Therefore, the first thing that is to restore - and it seems to me that this a party that is said on the left can understand - is the principle of fiscal equity because the citizens, the owners of the municipalities that have been regularized are paying and the others are not. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u172	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u173	For this reason, the Government of Mariano Rajoy approved in 2013 the cadastral regularization procedure 2013-2016 in order to restore this principle of fiscal equality for all citizens and at a time when the Government is going to revise the local and autonomous financing bills, in which the revision of the cadastral value constitutes an important part of the same, since at the time of the cadastral valuation the IBI, which is the one from which the municipalities are financed, and the property tax, which is the one from which the autonomous communities are financed. Therefore, what you say is not true. It is not that the purpose of the State has a collectivity; the State puts the instrument in place so that the municipalities and the autonomous communities can be financed. So let me tell you that everything you say is not true. No hurry. Look, it's been ten years, what's happening is that you were seduced by Mr. Zapatero who made you promises that were then brushed here, ruled with him there... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u174	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. That Mr Llorens is the last speaker does not mean that he will not be heard.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u175	I hope, Your Honor, because I have eight legislatures; even if that is the only reason why, that is what many Members aspire to. Forgive me for the license.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u176	Granted. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. Go on, Mr. Llorens.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u177	That is why the municipalities and the autonomous communities are going to be financed and because, moreover, it is also not true that it is a confiscatory coefficient, because there are reduction procedures so that in no case do they exceed the new values of those which have met 50% of the market valuation. It seems to us very good that you are now on the bill - it seems fantastic - of the importance of cadastral regulation, which is a very important part of the project of reform of local and autonomous financing in which you have not participated so far. Empty armchairs when they say they represent all Catalans. So, what am I going to say, let them occupy these empty armchairs, let them get to work, let them stop making lists of good and bad in Catalonia, that we are up to our noses and let them stop traveling through those worlds of God asking for funding, that the Autonomous Liquidity Fund provides to them, gives to all Catalans, more than to anyone else. [[Rumors]] We think it's phenomenal. [[Applauds]] What do you want me to say to him?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u178	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u179	I know that it seems very bad for you to agree, but, Mr Eritja - and I quote your words - any action on the cadastral coefficients goes through the approval of the General Budgets of the State of 2017. Man, now that Mr. Rufián - I don't know if he's out there - has discovered that 'Spain doesn't steal from us' - that's what I read the other day - and now that you have been able to approve the Generalitat's budgets at the orders of the CUP, on whose lists by Lleida you and I know who is...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u180	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u181	... shouldn't miss the opportunity to represent all Catalans...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u182	Mr. Llorens.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u183	...that we feel Spanish - that we are the majority - and that we want to break. Take part in the General Budgets of the State, in autonomous financing. [[Applauds]] Stop the tide at the wasteland. Stop hurting feelings. Don't speak more improperly on behalf of all Catalans because they also invent...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u184	Mr Llorens, Mr Llorens, you do not have the floor now because your time has run out. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, before the vote I would like to say two things: the first, the obligation to remain silent, which has had to be repeated on many occasions this afternoon. The second, the obligation they have to fulfill the times. One thing is that you spend a little bit of time and another thing is that you try to have twice as much time as you want. The Presidency always applies the times with balance, with balance and with the realism of a clock that marks the times. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] I don't need applause. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u185	First of all, we voted to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, which is an integral part of the fight against corruption and the protection of whistleblowers. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 2 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 335 plus 2 telematics votes, 337; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u186	It shall be taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] - OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF REPULIC KEY, ORGANIZATION FOR AMENDMENT OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 6/1985, OF 1 JULY, OF THE JUDICIAL POWER, ON THE IMPROVEMENT OF UNIVERSAL JUSTICE. [[File number 122/000008]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u187	We then turn to the proposal for a law of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, an organic amendment to the Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judiciary, on the improvement of universal justice. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus two telematics votes, 342; 175 plus one telematics vote, 176; 135 plus one telematics vote, 136; abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u188	It shall be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u189	We then proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals. Firstly, the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, on the creation of the seasonal power contract. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Esquerra Republicana and Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 171 against, 163 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u190	It's approved. - the Basque Parliamentary Group, on the adoption of a human rights plan. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 162/000282]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u191	No bill by the Basque Parliamentary Group on the adoption of a human rights plan. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will take place on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 338; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u192	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u193	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent appeals. Firstly, we voted on the Socialist Group's motion on the measures the Government intends to take to correct the wage gap between men and women. He's going to vote on his terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 339 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u194	It's approved. - THE JOINT PARLIAMENT GROUP ON REITERATES AND INJURY IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE MEDITERRANEAN CORREDOR. [[Mr Baldoví]] [[File number 173/000017]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u195	We then move on to the motion by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví, on the repeated delays and breaches in the construction of the Mediterranean corridor. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the popular, socialist, citizen and mixed parliamentary groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 336 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u196	It's approved. - THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON REPUBLICAL DISCUSSION, ON THE CASTRAL REGULATION OF THE ASSIGNMENT OF THE VALUE OF RUSTIC, AGRICULTURAL, GANADERAS AND FORESTAL CONSTRUCTIONS. [[File number 173/000018]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u197	We now proceed to vote on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left on the cadastral regulation of the allocation of the value of rural, agricultural, livestock and forestry constructions. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the Socialist Group's amendment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 205 against, 130.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-21-CD170221.u198	It's approved. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and twenty minutes of the night.
