ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u1	The meeting was called to order. We begin with the point relating to the debate of the entire bill of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2017. First, for the submission of the bill, the Minister of Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u2	Good morning, Madam President, Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. I stand before this House to defend the draft General State Budgets for 2017, in a debate that comes late on the dates on which it should have been held. We would have liked to bring these public accounts for your parliamentary examination on the usual dates, but it is not usual the political situation that our country has gone through in 2016 and, although it sounds like justification, we have actually taken advantage of each of the new opportunities that offered us to continue working for the citizens and for the common well-being and to put that purpose into the new public accounts. Adopting budgets for this year is, without a doubt, one of those opportunities to further improve the lives of the Spaniards; one of those opportunities that we have an obligation to take advantage of. The government is in that, as much as these are budgets that from the beginning we should qualify as transition, since they are the first in a legislature and try to link with the General Budgets of the State for the year 2018. They are budgets that aim to have a useful life of six months, but they are important in themselves because they will help to achieve the deficit targets that will allow Spain to exit the excessive deficit procedure and above all - as I will now point out - to promote employment. We are aware, to put it in a colloquial tone, that the Government is not playing it with the presentation of these budgets that would be adopted in the middle of the year because, in fact, we know that much of the rejection of this bill is more related to political issues outside of us than to the content of the bill. Our wish is to have budgets, which have nothing to do with a formal act or an arbitrary commitment by the Government, let alone a personal wish of the minister who speaks to them. It has to do with the prestige of the country and with an image of stability at the beginning of a legislature that has been difficult to shine and that must shake off any suspicion of political uncertainty; it has to do with the Spanish citizens, to whom these budgets are directed, which include greater resources, primarily for social spending; and it has to do with having an updated budgetary framework that will allow us to continue to make progress in terms of economic growth and job creation, as we have been doing in recent years, because that is the priority objective of the Government and therefore of these budgets: to continue to feed economic growth and thereby consolidate and strengthen the creation of jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been 20 months since the Congress of Deputies hosted its last budget debate. Today there are many Members who attend for the first time a debate of these characteristics, groups that in August 2015 - when I had the opportunity to bring to this House the draft budgets for 2016 - were not present in this Parliament. The political will of Spanish society was reflected in the ballot box with this Parliament; a more diverse Parliament, with a division of forces in which - nor should we forget it - the majority group remains the People's Parliamentary Group and the President of the Government remains Don Mariano Rajoy. The People's Party and its candidate were the ones who received the most support from the Spanish twice in a row, so they gained the confidence of the House to govern. We are well aware that our parliamentary presence is smaller than we had after the 2011 elections, but we are also aware that we continue to have the responsibility to govern. And the responsibility to govern today is the responsibility to seek agreements to be able to do so because it has been wanted by the citizens. That is what the President of the Government proposed in his investiture speech and that is what the Minister of Finance and Public Service does next with the presentation and defense of these budgets. What is the responsibility to govern when we talk about budgetary policy? In the first place, to maintain the course. Our desire to reach parliamentary agreements, to agree on laws and reforms and, in particular, to bring forward the General Budgets of the State for 2017 should not mean that we are running into economic policy or budgetary policy that will make us lose the north. Because, what's the north? The north is employment, the north is job creation; that is the great goal that we set ourselves five and a half years ago when we won the elections in 2011 and it is the priority objective that we continue to set ourselves today after renewing the confidence of citizens and Parliament. Today I can say with complete certainty that we are making steady progress towards that goal because we are avoiding those bandages that could divert us from our path. I say this deeply convinced, because there is nothing that can convince a finance minister more, in particular in a parliamentary debate of these characteristics, than the reality of the figures. On this reality and not on chimeras I would like to talk to you about focusing this budget debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we have all seen a very common parliamentary dynamic in which the Government is developing its draft budgets, which is its encrypted government policy, and the opposition predicts that the budgets will unleash the seven plagues; in the face of this, the governments advocate that we will reach the seventh heaven. Well, neither seventh heaven nor seven plagues; nor are these budgets going to take us directly to the top nor will they bring us back to the abyss. The current political scenario should move us all away from these manic confrontations, from stereotypes that often do not seek a debate to convince but a way to overcome in the debate. I am not here today to win this budget debate, what I intend to do is convince them, debating, that these budgets - especially the economic philosophy that they contain - are the best possible for Spain and that the only ones that should win from the debate and the content of the budgets are the Spaniards. I'll tell you more. I assure you that I would not mind losing this debate if I were sure that what dominates in this House is the economic philosophy that inspires this draft law of general budgets of the State, because this philosophy is the one that governs the principles of the European Union, it is the philosophy that has allowed Spain to be that faithful partner of the European Union and that, beyond ideological criteria that do not always work, it is really the economic philosophy that has allowed Spain to advance in its prosperity and, above all, that it aspires to overcome definitively the worst legacy of the economic crisis, which is unemployment, the loss of jobs. I would like to say at the end of this debate, between today and tomorrow, that we have convinced someone else, that we have convinced Spain that it needs to grow, that its economy needs to grow, that we need more income precisely to have better distribution, more equality; that we need more income to have more employment opportunity. When we compare ourselves with our European environment, with the rest of the Western countries, we see one thing that is very explicit, and that is that nobody is doing better in terms of growth and job creation than Spain, then something good we are doing in terms of economic policy, and in particular budgetary policy, when we grow twice the European average and we are creating almost half the employment that is being created within the European Union. It is also true that we need these two conditions; we need to grow more than others because we need to create more jobs than others. This draft budget is intended to continue to make progress in the fight against the economic crisis, to continue to make progress on the path we are on; that path which, I insist, is putting us at the head of the economic growth of the developed world and, above all, as leaders of job creation. We are therefore betting that these budgets will really allow us to continue creating jobs, so that this year we can say that job creation in our country exceeds 500 000 jobs. At the time of the previous budget debate in August 2015, we closed that August with 16,983,302 members of Social Security, there were 372,000 more than on the same date of the previous year, that is, we were already creating jobs; we were creating jobs at an average of 31,000 members each month. If today we look at the figures, if we look at the distance that separates us from the previous budget debate, we find that in the month of March - the last data that we have available - we close with 17,852,833 affiliates; that is, since we debated in this forum the previous budget, there are 870 000 more affiliates in Spain; an average of 45,800 affiliates every month that has elapsed between August 2015 and this month of May 2017. I insist that there are 45,800 more members, each of them who have found a job that they did not have twenty months ago. The pace has been accelerating, the pace has been improving; the pace is such that the job creation behind it has been accentuated in the case of women. Of the 870 000 new affiliates that have joined since August 2015, we see 504,628 are women, or 58% of the total compared to 42% of men. In fact, the number of women's social security membership is already at the same level as it had at the best times, in the pre-crisis moments. So we can say that we are witnessing not only a job recovery, which is already very important, but the reduction of the gender gap in terms of work; that is what is happening in our country, and that is the best of opportunities in terms of equality that we can have in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, they are not data, they are hundreds of thousands of people, they are the best proof that the budgetary policy that this Government has carried out works, they are the best reason for this policy to be maintained and they are the best argument that a Minister of the Government of Spain can have in trying to convince Parliament that he must support these budgets. But what is happening now is not new, Spain has already experienced it, citizens have already benefited from these budgetary policies. Let me give you a tour of history because we also have to draw conclusions from that history. Whenever there has been a high public deficit in Spain there has been little employment, that is the equation that has worked: high deficit, little employment in our country. And whenever our country has relied on budgetary stability, it has been reflected in the great leap that has taken place in the labour market. This is the lesson of the last thirty-five years. In fact, during the first socialist governments in the 1980s things were done well, mainly the integration of Spain into the European Union, at the time still called the European Economic Community, but the public deficit remained from 1982 to 1986 above 5%, even exceeding 7% in several years. I insist that there were other things that went well, but we always had that march of a very high public deficit. What happened in terms of employment? Just read that in the first quarter of 1982 in Spain we worked 11 500 000 people. In the first quarter of 1996, when the change of government took place, in Spain we worked 12 600 000 people, that is, one million more than in the year when the socialist government began, one million more employees completely in the public sector, since the private sector of the Spanish economy had destroyed millions of jobs. I have to say that the 12 600 000 we worked at the beginning of 1996 are the same ones that we worked twenty years before the end of the franchise, when in Spain we worked 12 500 000 people. What happened in our country in the mid-1990s? That we did the homework to join the euro, that we did the reforms to seek the economic stability of our country and that we actually made the principles of European convergence and the Maastricht criteria free all the entrepreneurial and working potential of Spanish society. This made it possible that, when the crisis came in 2007, we would be surprised by 20,500,000 jobs instead of 12,600,000. The government aims to get those 20,500,000 jobs, that's our draft stability programme that we sent last weekend to the European Commission, that's Spain's big project: to get the jobs destroyed by the crisis back completely. This destruction of 3,600,000 jobs by the crisis, something that has not happened in any country in the world, is the cause of inequality, the root cause of the frustration of Spanish society. Therefore, the Spaniards are convinced that when we overcome the worst legacy of that crisis, which is unemployment, non-occupation, we can certainly be saying that we are really that society that did not deserve to incur in that crisis that wrong policies in diagnosing the treatment of the same what they did was sharpen it. Today we have a much stronger basis for continuing to generate growth and job creation. Today we have economic growth that for the first time in our country is compatible with a financing capacity vis-à-vis the rest of the world in our economy of the order of 2%. We have been practically five years, since the end of 2012, recording financing capacity vis-à-vis the rest of the world. The current account surplus it represents is telling us that we are having very competitive economic growth, very based on the external sector; economic growth that is making us thrive and create jobs. We have to remember once again that the economic crises that Spain has always experienced have been external crises, balance-of-payments crises, crises - we must also remember - that have slowed our growth prospects, but those crises have also allowed Spanish society to display the best of itself, as it is doing on this occasion, which is overcoming this crisis of external indebtedness. The private sector of our economy has already reduced its external indebtedness, from 2012 to the present, by no less than EUR 430 billion, and now, on a straight line, we have an obligation to undertake the deleveraging of the private sector; sorry, public. [[Laughter]] We must reduce the level of our public debt, as the private sector, as I have explained, has already made a great effort, spread among our businesses and families. [[Laughter]] I see that some of the new parliamentary groups like us to lower our debt. That should be the subject of the debate, lower the debt, so welcome to the House, if we agree. You have to lower your debt. If we have to lower debt in our country, it means that we have to reduce the public deficit. It means that we all have an obligation to meet the public deficit reduction targets that mark our membership of the European Union, that we have to reduce the deficit of our public administrations from the level at which we closed last year; 4.3% must reduce it to 3.1% this year. Is that an obligation? No, it is not an obligation, it is what we should do as a country; it is for the reason I explained earlier: the more we reduce our indebtedness to the rest of the world, the stronger, more intense and more projection we will give to our economic growth and to our job creation. We will be more secure in the continuity of the job-creating economic growth that we are already having and better horizon we will be able to offer to the Spaniards, because our commitment is not only with the European Union, our commitment is with the Spaniards. We are convinced that this commitment, the same as that of the European Union, is the one that is right for Spain; that commitment is the one that leads us to the great question, which is the content of this budget. What's to be spent on? In relation to the spending chapter, do not expect surprise announcements. We are a government marked by predictability and we are doing what we were already doing. Although the evolution of tax collection is better as a result of economic recovery, we will answer questions such as: Has the time come to remove the corset from austerity? Is it not time to forget the tightness and give ourselves a budgetary joy? The answer has to be that, given the possibility of spending more, there is always the option of spending better. We need to spend better what we have in our hands and with clear priorities, because that is how the present is best served and how we better prepare for the future. I have to admit from this rostrum that political representatives often understand spending in a certain way and ask for more motorways, more railways, more airports, more bridges, more reservoirs, more squares and more gardens. That is what national, autonomous and local politicians ask of us, and when we say that we have to do it but in a limited and contained way, the answer comes to be the one we have heard over the past weeks: these budgets mistreat us. Who do these budgets mistreat? Where are these budgets reversed? Social protection. [[Rumors]] These are budgets to help individuals and groups in need of State welfare protection. These budgets are invested in pensions, social protection, dependency, health and education. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Who can say that budgets that have that social component are mistreated? Who? What territory are they mistreated? Aren't pensioners being charged in that territory? Aren't the unemployed being charged in that territory? Aren't hospitals and public schools open and functioning in that territory? Are the basic social protection needs not being met in that territory? [[Rumors]] That is the objective of these budgets. From there, what do we want, ladies and gentlemen? Some claim to be a drunkard of public spending. We have emerged from the crisis that came from the drunkenness of public spending and they already want to go out of their way to celebrate it. [[Laughter and applause]] That is what they are saying that we are going to do again with their proposals some of the political groups in this House. They want us to go back to the old recipes, but the truth is that we didn't have to change the composition of this House so much either, because those speeches and those recipes we had already heard a lot here. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u3	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u4	Public investment is coming back, but it has to come back in phases, in concrete and necessary issues. We still have to reduce the public deficit; it said before that we are committed, but above all we need to continue to create jobs. The income we have gives for what they give. Do they give something to improve the investment? Yeah. And to improve R & D? Yes, and also to improve other social services and management in terms of citizen security, justice and other major functions of the modern state. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to improve social spending. That's what we're doing, and that's what's getting us out of the crisis. We need to continue to improve spending on education, social services and pensions. We need to continue to improve on the protection of people and families, because we are very aware that one thing is that there is economic recovery and another is that economic recovery reaches the whole world in Spain. Therefore, when we are called upon by certain autonomous governments more investments would have to tell us where we reduce social spending. Those demands would have to be made clear to us and not to read in a segmented manner the draft General Budgets of the State containing the Government's policy, which I have the honour to defend this morning. We have not changed our political priorities, although I fear some have changed theirs; but that is their problem. It is relatively easy to put the bridge before the river goes down, but we prefer it whenever the river goes down and then make the bridge and not vice versa, i.e. not to make bridges in case the river goes down, which is what some understand is spending policy and investment policy. I insist that we continue to invest, we will continue to invest, but we will give priority to social spending, we will give priority to the reduction of the public deficit, and therefore we will give priority to the reduction of the public debt that we are achieving among all Spanish administrations. The draft of these budgets is to lower that level of public debt. The government's project, which we have sent to the European Commission this weekend, is that the public debt actually falls from the current levels of 98.8% of gross domestic product to 92.5% in 2020, a decline of more than 6 points of GDP, which is the safest way to strengthen economic growth, through the release of resources, so that entrepreneurs in Spain can continue to invest and that investment translates into new employment opportunities. He said our priority is social spending. Our priority is the same since we approved the 2012 General State Budgets: increase social spending while we continue to reduce the public deficit. In the early years of the 10th Legislature it was much more difficult, because the deficit had to be reduced with great intensity to show that we were serious and we didn't have the economy growing, but rather we were experiencing a stage of economic recession. So when you don't have any more income, it's hard to really preserve the social spending budget. It is not so now; I am not saying that it is simple, because it is never simple, but it is not as complicated as in the early years, in the early years of the X Legislature. Why? Because we now have growth, because we have been able to drive economic growth, and that is the fuel that drives us out of the crisis, when before we had to push without just having the strength to stand up. The big difference is that then we had to raise taxes fairly, but now tax collection is growing at a higher rate than economic activity. That makes it easier for us to have sufficient resources, which are those contained in these General State Budgets, so that we can effectively say that we reduce the tax and also do so with all our dedication to social spending. I will read figures to show that these budgets and all the budgetary policy behind them have indeed been marked by social spending. Spanish public spending went out of hand between 2009 and 2011, with three consecutive years above EUR 490 billion. In two years expenditure grew by €70 billion, while revenue fell to the same extent, with the same intensity, €70 billion. In less than ten years we had doubled public spending, from 39% of GDP in 2007 to almost 46% of our gross domestic product. Between 2005 and 2009, public expenditure rose by an average of more than EUR 34 billion per year. At first the economy still seemed to be able to allow it, because the revenues were there, but when the revenues were truncated no one stopped the expenditure, but the opposite; therefore I think that a budgetary policy must always be conducted with the brake near. And that is why I say that it is not yet time to speed up other spending, and that when we do, we must do so with caution, no matter how many people miss the happiness of constantly increasing public spending, which then became the enormous sadness of the economic recession, the destruction of jobs and the public deficit. The peak of public expenditure in Spain, which was computable in deficit, was when it remained three consecutive years above the EUR 490 billion, all the public administrations spending all the machinery and no one who thought that it could derail. In 2012, the financial crisis even led to an increase in computable expenditure, up to 500 billion, after spending more than 39 billion to prevent the financial system from dragging the world's little confidence at the time in Spain. Since that year, public expenditure has fallen by EUR 30 billion from that record figure, and has then remained under control, even slightly increased since 2015, facilitated by the effects of economic recovery. But what about social spending, what has social spending done? He's up. To do so, we have made up for it by not actually spending on the functioning of our administrations or even giving up certain areas of public investment. That is why we have not been able to increase spending any more, because it has gone to social spending. How much was public spending in 2011, the last year of the socialist government? I have already said this, EUR 490 234 million, and that after reducing it since 2010 by EUR 2850 million, of which - this figure is important - 2270 were social expenditure. This was reduced from 2010 to 2011. And how much has public spending decreased between 2011 and 2016? Almost EUR 18 billion. And of those 18 billion, how much has social spending fallen? Nothing. He hasn't dropped anything at all. The effort to reduce public spending can also be seen in terms of GDP, but I go to absolute figures and to the figure of social spending: from the 296 481 million euros spent on social spending in 2011 to the 300 372 million we spent in 2016. I insist, from 296 481 to 300 372 million that we spent in 2016. We have therefore not reduced social spending at all. This is the highest in the history of Spain. It is almost EUR 4 billion more than in 2011 and EUR 57 billion more than in 2007, the year before the crisis came. And this year the forecast that these budgets bring is that we go up, and that they facilitate these budgets with the revenues to the territorial administrations, and that we move to 307 billion euros, which we had never recorded in absolute terms in the history of the Spanish public administrations. In 2016, social expenditure accounted for 63.6% of total expenditure, 64% of which was spent on financial aid. It is the highest percentage since at least 1995 and the forecast is that these budgets will remain at around 64%. It should be remembered that when the People's Party came to the government in 2011, the percentage allocated to social expenditure was 60.48 %. Today we are at 64% of that expenditure. We have therefore done what we had to do: to preserve social spending, not to reduce it, and that is one of the engines, one of the levers that is facilitating economic recovery and job creation. By the way, when we were government in the 1990s and early 2000s we did the same: social spending then represented - in 1996 - 55.1%, and when we left the government the social expenditure was 57.1%, against the legends from which I do not know what ideologies. We have done exactly the same in the two periods of government. It is enough to read the figures, although this reading the figures, in short, also has its obvious difficulty. But for that there are the budget debates, in order to contrast the social reality behind the figures of expenditure of our public administrations. Special strength in social spending has pensions. Pensions account for almost half of that social expenditure. Pensions also account for the growth of this social expenditure. Pensions put us in the current budget at around EUR 140 billion, when in 2011 we were at EUR 110 billion. It is therefore EUR 30 billion that are certainly absolutely essential in the area of social protection. That has been the policy of the Government: to have also increased pensions in the hardest and hardest moments of our economic crisis, because our pensioners deserved that treatment, they deserved that respect, because they have proved to be indeed a fundamental pillar, through the family, in the economic sustenance of the burdens, which have suffered so many social layers as a result of that economic crisis. This does not mean that we do not worry about the future of pensions, and that does not mean that we do not once again call on all the political groups in this House, through the Toledo Pact Commission, to reach agreements that really guarantee the sustainability of our pension system. But I insist that this sustainability is based on employment, it is based on the increase in social security contributions, and from that, obviously from those solutions, those measures that we will all have to know how to agree. I also wanted to refer to policies of equality, social protection and equal opportunities. When we talk about the welfare state and we talk about the education, health and equal opportunities of our citizens nothing less than the quality of life, the prolongation of life and the equal opportunities behind acquiring knowledge, and therefore everything that is also in these budgets is aimed precisely at promoting that equality of opportunity, as is the government's scholarship policy, which also reaches a historical volume in our country in these budgets. I shall now turn to the importance of these budgets in territorial financing, where much of that equal opportunity lies. But I insist that genuine equality of opportunity must be given to us by employment, it must be given by the recovery of jobs, because that is why people can develop their vital project, through their own capacity and always with the support of the State. Within the constraints and territorialized investments I must also refer to the priorities that mark these budgets, and in particular the budget of the Ministry of Development, which, without prejudice to others, is the first major investor in our country. The resources of the Promotion Group are increased by 24,2 % compared to what was implemented in 2016, to reach 17 billion euros. Of this amount, the total investment amounts to EUR 8969 million, which means that the investment is increased by 45 % compared to what was implemented in 2016. It may be reproached that the execution has fallen short of the 2016 budget, but that reproach has much to do with political instability, with a government in office which is the one that has been permanently in this very House and has ultimately exercised its functions during 2016. Among the priorities are the railway, which takes almost half of the new investment; the roads, for which 23.7 % is allocated; the Mediterranean corridor, which is the most investment to be received by 2020; the northwest, north and north-east, as well as specific lines such as Madrid-Extremadura-Portuguese border, Seville-Huelva and Seville-Cádiz. As far as road investment is concerned, I think it is important to point out that for the first time the budget for road conservation and safety is higher than that for the construction of new works. The State housing budget, with an investment of EUR 342.8 million, will provide more than 100 000 housing rental and rehabilitation or renovation aid. Another 140 000 families will be eligible for housing-related loan subsidies. Therefore with the increase in R & D & I of these policies by 4% we are also carrying out a public spending bet on the most productive economy, which is related to direct investment. This is the government's proposal, this is the proposal that we believe we can afford within the current budgetary framework, which I insist is characterised by the priority of social spending and is committed to reducing public spending. That is why these budgets are, in one sentence, the budgets of employment and social expenditure. The objective of our budget is people, and it is the answer to their needs, so there is an Administration with which these budgets feel particularly committed, the autonomous communities, and I am not just talking about a territorial policy, I am talking about a social policy. Much of the education, health and social services expenditure is in the hands of the autonomous communities. That is why when public revenues collapsed in the same year that a new funding system was established, the result was that the autonomous communities had no more resources, but more negative liquidations vis-à-vis the state, of the order of 23 billion euros only in 2009. That is to make a hole; that is not to provide real resources for our country's social benefits. That is why when we arrived at the Government in 2012 the first thing we did was to extend the deadline for the repayment of negative liquidations no less than in twenty years, and then we articulated special financing mechanisms, extraordinary liquidity financing - the Supplier Payment Fund, the Autonomic Liquidity Fund -, all of which facilitated that the services that were in the hands of our local administrations, our territorial administrations - autonomous communities - could be carried forward, could continue to be carried out and continue to be materialized. Well, the new budgets that we present today, the 2017 budgets, are budgets that program for the autonomous communities an increase in funding of 5400 million euros, which is equivalent to 5 tenths of the gross domestic product. In fact, in order for this to happen and for this to happen, these budgets must be approved, so that the criticisms that have been heard from the governments of certain autonomous communities against their approval, I suppose, are due to the fact that they do not know that these budgets bring more resources to their priority. The Government would recommend that they allocate more resources to health, education and social protection. These budgets depend in net terms on EUR 4400 million for their social policies. I understand - I do not share - political assessments that say that these budgets of 2017 should not be approved, but that it is said by autonomous governments that depend on the reception of those 4400 million euros... It seems to me that what they have to do is explain to the citizens what they are willing to give up in exchange for a political position of rejection of these budgets. Then they will make the excuse that there is not enough public investment in their territory. But we're giving it to him in the form of funding! Do what the Government is not willing to do when you give priority to a particular public investment. Make sure that health continues to improve, make education truly that place of equal opportunity, make yourselves responsible in terms of social protection, but do not say that these budgets do not bring money, because they bring money and resources to the autonomous communities. Therefore, these budgets do not amount to giving up these autonomous communities having this new availability of resources in this exercise, and they can also reduce their public deficit, as they have already done during the financial year 2016. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are still awaiting the reform of autonomous financing, which we would have to schedule for the following years, starting in 2018, so it should be included in the subsequent budgets. This reform, in a House of this composition, cannot come out unless it is with the agreement of all the major parliamentary groups at least, without prejudice to the others. The more we add, the better, but the support of the large political groups is essential. Without the support of the Socialist Party this reform of autonomous financing does not come out, because we would not add enough support. That must also be explained to the citizens who are waiting for an improvement in autonomous financing. Simultaneously the project in the committee of experts created, the reform is being designed, but from there the reform will have to materialize it as a government with the agreement of the different political groups. Agreements we have to reach, in these budgets or you will choose where, but in the coming months we have an obligation to look for coincidences. It is precisely the coincidences that have led the Government to converge with the public service unions in the search for agreements. This has allowed us to sign an agreement with the public service unions that will benefit hundreds of thousands of people. We talk about people dedicated to public health, education, citizen security, justice personnel, and the tax administration. It will benefit in terms of employment stability. That is the public offer of employment that these budgets bring: the development and compliance with the agreements. By the way, such agreements between the Government and the main trade union centres had not been reached in Spain since 2009. Look where the deals are. In 2010 I don't have to remind you that what went down was the salaries of the staff. That's where those deals came from. We are now talking about solid agreements, based on this economic situation; agreements that can make public employment gain a lot of quality, and that is fundamental because we are talking about hundreds of thousands of people who will give our country economic stability. These are agreements that we also want to develop in terms of wage negotiation so that the progress in increasing the salaries of officials by 1% is completed by agreements that we develop for the 2018 and subsequent budgets. I insist on the idea that the public servant, the public official, must have the recognition of a better future as a result of his contribution to this economic recovery, where he has left the best of himself, the best of his commitment, of his knowledge and of that great contribution of responsibility that he has brought forward. The revenue from these budgets is aligned with what is already happening. The Secretary of State for Finance already said in his appearance in this House that in the period from January to April, in homogeneous terms, the tax collection of the State is growing by 11%; if we go to the month of April in particular, it is growing more, much more. It is also due to the recovery of corporate tax collection in April thanks to the measures that we have adopted in this House, which are the result of the agreements that can be reached here; they are therefore measures that make the forecast of tax collection viable. I am saying this because, although I do not want to anticipate the afternoon debate, when you criticise that there is not going to be enough revenue, take into account that you approved the measures with the Government and with other political groups that are making it possible to produce those revenues. Remember this for that of coherence and consistency, which in politics is of some importance, as in all facets of life, but in politics coherence is quite important. As it is in Europe. Europe is the project of Spain. Europe, in the Ortegian sense, is the solution. Europe is not the problem, as we hear from very important political formations of our European partners. Europe is not a commitment to stability. On the contrary, Europe is a great project of political integration which requires the commitment of economic stability, the commitment derived from the single currency, the commitment, in short, to carry out together this great European project. With our integration into Europe in the two great moments, in 1986, and meeting the requirements of the euro, at the end of 1998, Spain opened up to Europe, fully entered Europe and opened up to the world. That openness to the world is the great feature of our economy and our country. Today we are part of that global economy, we are an inescapable part, and the internationalization of our economy does not go backwards. Our companies are today in the world, they are abroad, they are in Europe as a whole. That is very positive and it is the work and project in which I am sure we agree in this House when we discuss projects such as these budgets, which aim to fulfil - I insist - not commitments or obligations simply, but to meet needs arising from European integration itself. Madam President, I'm done. This is it. I know it's a little long, but if not, why do we call at 12 in the morning? [[Laughter]] I ended by saying, first of all, that after ten years of economic crisis Spain has the formidable opportunity to overcome this long nightmare and to do so by strengthening its economic structures, its administrative structures, its territorial structures and its welfare state. The crisis, which has had such terrible consequences in so many respects, offers us, at least, the possibility of learning a lesson: to defend ourselves from the crisis itself. Sometimes the disease immunizes the body by contracting evil. We do not aspire to that much, but we do intend that, at least, the next time you stalk us we have enough antibodies, enough defenses to not be on the verge of collapse as we have been, as happened to us a few years ago. The Government has tried to strengthen these defences with structural reforms of the economy, with structural reforms of the Administration, with a budgetary policy aimed at having a stronger administrative structure, a more stable territorial architecture and public services less exposed to sudden changes in the economic cycle. That task is not complete. The budgets that we bring here today for the consideration of the House are part of the missing pieces to further consolidate economic recovery and the strengthening of the State. In these budgets we maintain as a priority the control of public expenditure and the strengthening of social expenditure. In these budgets we remain committed to reducing the deficit as a guarantee of healthy and inclusive economic growth, creating employment and generating wealth for society as a whole. In these budgets we demand a socially supportive public sector, focused on providing citizens with quality public services, attended by experienced professionals working in a stable work environment. In these budgets we reaffirm our commitment to a welfare state that protects the viability of pensions and the tranquility of the elderly, offers quality education to the young and takes care of the health of all people. With these budgets we strengthen our state of autonomy from the political and territorial point of view, its diversity and its unity, with vertebrate policies and with greater funding to ensure the provision of public services, while we agree with a financing model - as I mentioned earlier - that satisfies everyone without giving priority to anyone. With these new budgets, ladies and gentlemen, we put a new stone to build the recovery and look for others who, like us, want to finish building the great building at the end of the crisis and contribute to its stability. That is why, from this rostrum, I encourage Members and parliamentary groups, before deciding the meaning of their vote, to take stock of the things that unite us in the political arena in the face of the crisis and to leave behind those that separate us. Some have already done so and I want to thank publicly for that work we have done. We must also publicly say that the Government has negotiated with virtually all the groups in this House... Well, we've negotiated with whoever he's been negotiated with, obviously. [[Several Members: Ah!-Rumors.-Applause.]] Talking is something else, but we have spoken to all the groups in this House; some have not entered into negotiations - and I hope they will explain it - because they did not want to. The Government's disposition has been to reach agreements; agreements that are very important because they allow, as I said, to cement the building of economic recovery and job creation. That is why I wish to publicly celebrate the agreements reached, first of all, with Citizens, who are the political group with which we also conclude the investment agreements. We've taken care of those investment agreements... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u5	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Go ahead, Mr. Montoro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u6	He said that Citizens is the group with which we arrived at investment agreements and with which we have incorporated in these first budgets of the legislature - the ambition is that there be a legislature and, therefore, four budgets in this legislature - the beginning of the development of those agreements that gave rise to the investiture. We have also done so in tax matters, as we had agreed, by reducing VAT on cultural activities with the presence of people. I want to thank the disposition of the Basque Nationalist Party, with which we have had the opportunity to carry out important negotiations because in this new situation that we are experiencing we can attend matters that we all had pending, including the liquidations of the Basque Cup, which, I remind you, had not been renewed for more than six years. Therefore, we all had an obligation - the first government - to carry out negotiations on the update. I would also like to thank the disposition of Coalition Canaria, a party with which, through a frank and sincere dialogue, we are developing for the Canary Islands - one of the areas of Spain most hit by the crisis, with the most unemployment - joint projects to consolidate what is already happening in the Canary Islands, as fortunately happens in much of Spain: the creation and recovery of employment. Finally, I should like to welcome the conclusion of these agreements with the Navarro People's Union and the Forum, which are our coalitions and with which the People's Party has taken part in the last general elections. They have been the pillars and foundation of the current Government. However, when I count, a much broader majority of this House comes out of this House than the one I have just quoted; a majority like that which we have gathered in votes last December on the figure known as the expenditure ceiling and the tax measures, which are at the origin of these budgets. It is such a large majority that it represents 17 million voters; a majority that believes in Europe, that believes in the euro and in budgetary stability, because when it is governing it is applying these principles of compliance with such budgetary stability; a majority that agrees - and has voted so, I insist, in December - a majority that on many occasions can identify political interests in a certain way different from the government. I want to appeal to that majority to end this morning. I want to appeal to that majority because it is not really only the responsibility of the Government to deal with the general interests, it is the responsibility of the political groups, of each and every member of this House. That is the real responsibility of democracy policy. Responsibility is to give priority to common objectives. Who does not agree that economic recovery must be consolidated? Who does not agree that we must continue to create jobs, at least at this rate? Who does not agree that our welfare state must have sufficient resources, as we are planning from this budget, also for the administrations that are jointly responsible? I understand, as it cannot be otherwise, that there are political conditions that hinder understanding, but we must not confuse those differences with antagonisms that make it impossible to agree on what is really fundamental. That is why I must announce from the government that this negotiation - and now I am talking about negotiation, not just dialogue - must continue from tomorrow's vote. The vote tomorrow is only the first stage; we must continue with it, we must continue with the amendments, insisting on what unites us. That is the task entrusted to us by the citizens in this legislature, and that is the task to which the Government is responding, and it is doing so by bringing in budgets that guarantee the political stability of our country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u7	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 16 hours. It was one and twenty minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u8	The meeting was resumed. We move on to the debate on the full amendments to the State General Budgets Bill for 2017. Seven amendments have been tabled to the full refund of this draft Law on General State Budgets for 2017. In defence of the amendments tabled by your group, Mr Hernando Vera is speaking first of all by the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Montoro, Mr Rajoy, I have to start the debate on public revenue and expenditure, that is, on the fate of public resources, framing my intervention in the indignation and shame of the Spaniards at the penultimate case of corruption affecting the People's Party, the Party of Government, one of its ministers and senior officials. [[Applauds]] The reason for this is that a government's economic and budgetary policy is based, among other things, on its confidence and credibility, Mr Montoro, and today the government comes to this debate with minimal credibility and decimated confidence as a result of the swamp of corruption in which certain leaders of its party and too many territorial organizations of the People's Party are immersed. The list of corruptions affecting the People's Party is long, but the case of Ignacio González goes up several steps at once the scale of indignation and disgust. In this case, his main protagonist used democratic powers as a counselor, vice president and president of the Community of Madrid to steal and enrich himself. It organized an associative structure to extend its radius of action as much as possible. He employed in this activity apart from his family and benefited elsewhere. He illegally financed his election campaigns, in which he participated, and also the election campaigns of the People's Party in the Madrid Community. Yes, from your party, Mr. Rajoy. And finally, when he was still at liberty, he received applause from government ministers. For greater scorn, the highest officials of the prosecution have tried to torpedo the initiatives of the investigating judge, and Mr. González's brother has been received from the Ministry of the Interior by the Secretary of State for Security. There are well-founded suspicions that the purpose of these communications...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u10	Mr. Hernando, to the point, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u11	Immediately. There are well-founded suspicions that he was notified of the legal hearings and that this notice was intended for the alleged offender to prepare and be in a better position to protect his interests and evidence, and all of this - I am going to the point, Madam President - destroys confidence in a government that is presenting its budgets today. Whether you like it or not, ladies and gentlemen, 350 Members, this debate is linked to what is happening here and now in Spain. This debate is part of what we know today. Mr Montoro, your economic policies have never convinced us because we do not believe that they were adequate to take advantage of the tailwind in our economy, to change the pillars of the economy, to create employment and to close the huge social gap that has opened up in the years of the crisis. But it is certainly the corruption that affects your party that destroys the indispensable confidence that is needed at a time of economic recovery such as the one we live in and that destroys any credibility for the pacts, the dialogues and everything that the Government wants to propose from now on, whether in politics, whether in economics or in budgetary matters. [[Applauds]] Mr Montoro, once again your tax amnesty at the centre of the political scene, because some of the members of this plot have been beneficiaries. What do you think, as Minister of Finance, that leaders of your party have known for two years that a vice president of the Madrid Community had accounts in tax havens? What do you think of yourself as Minister of Finance? Did you do anything to find out, to report it, to prevent the crime, to prevent fraud against the public finances, to prevent all citizens from being defrauded? No, nothing was done and, you know, this produces outrage and disgust on the part of the citizenry. Yes, Mr. Rajoy, it's an outrage that you knew and didn't do anything. [[Applauds]] Madam President, I will not go back to this issue, not least because, Mr President of the Government, you will shortly have to appear before the Committee of Inquiry which investigates the irregular financing of your party and I assure you that we will be implacable in asking for responsibilities and explanations, but in the meantime we will also be so in order to defend the independence of justice and the prosecution and to pursue corruption. [[Applauds]] Mr. Montoro, before we start, I want to tell you something. Recently, the President of the Eurogroup accused the countries of southern Europe of a number of things I will not repeat. The President of the Eurogroup was asked to resign for accusing the countries of southern Europe of certain types of expenditure with the money and aid being given to them; even his blue-bank partner, Mr De Guindos, asked him to repent for insulting the countries of the south. You today, speaking of the public spending of the autonomous communities, have accused them of getting drunk of public spending. [[A Member of Parliament: Hala!-Rumors]] Mr Montoro, it is a shame what you have said and, above all, it is an insult. [[Applauds]] But what I want to ask you, Mr Montoro, is if you think it's spending on drinks the money you spend on eliminating pharmaceutical co-ops on dependents or elderly people; if you think it's spending money on drinks reopening public services; if you think it's spending money on drinks reopening rural schools that you had closed when you were chairing certain autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] Mr. Montoro, not only have you insulted the autonomous communities, but millions of people who are having a bad time, accusing them of spending their money on drinks when what they're doing is undoing everything you've done wrong. [[Applauds]] Mr. Montoro, three years ago you and Mr. Rajoy announced to us that the recovery had arrived. We were told that we had left behind the global crisis - you have said it again today - an unprecedented financial and economic crisis that affected the whole world, Spain especially through the destruction of employment; millions of jobs, from north to south and east to west destroyed. It particularly affected women, young people with their first jobs, the less qualified and the most vulnerable households. At the epicenter of the crisis, steps were taken that you multiplied when you came to the Government, nothing more to take possession of the Government. Nothing was saved in those barbaric years from the brutal attack. All - wages, education, health, social services, care for dependency, protection of the family, effective promotion of equality between men and women, public investment, research, innovation, technology, culture, cinema - considered it susceptible to restrictive measures of expenditure that were implemented through successive decisions of budget inavailability, cuts in budget laws, fiscal increases accompanied by reductions from the IRPF to higher incomes and tax treatment favorable to capital incomes. But in 2014 we were told that all this had ended, that the recovery was already here and that the measures taken by the Government in the future would be unnecessary. They repeated it to us machaconically in 2015, in 2016; you said it this morning here again. But what these budgets show at this time of recovery is that it was not the crisis that motivated unjust policies of cuts, inequality and precariousness; it was not the crisis because we are no longer in crisis, it is the third year of growth and yet policies persist. No, it wasn't the crisis, it was the People's Party, it was your ideology, which you called philosophy. Why does it say philosophy when it's ideology? It was and is the People's Party project that keeps its social cuts for the majority while benefiting a few with tax amnesties. By the way, some of them criminals and some of them affiliated with the People's Party. It was not the crisis, it is the project and it is the philosophy - which you have called ideology - of a party that has never considered equality and social cohesion to be essential to talk about a just and prosperous society. That is why we are not going to support these budgets, Mr Montoro, because philosophy persists in these budgets, because ideology persists in these budgets. It was not the crisis, it was the People's Party and the ideology of the People's Party. That's why we're going to vote against it. [[Applauds]] I, Mr Montoro, do not mind losing or winning the debate. You said: I do not mind losing the debate if philosophy remains, that is, if ideology remains. We are going to vote against these budgets precisely because of ideology, although we lose the debate. [[Applauds]] In defending these budgets they speak of Spain, of economy, of reforms, of stability - you have spoken of stability - of trust, of responsibility, of prestige - we will have time - but they do not speak of the Spaniards, when they refer to them they contemplate them with great numbers, but they do not look at the men and women in particular, to those who have been living a very difficult situation for years, with cuts, with cuts in possibilities, of horizons, with uncertainties as to what will happen to their children. But all this in these budgets doesn't change, if the recovery came true in 2014 - it came true in 2014, didn't it, Mr Montoro?-, what do you think about that recovery the remaining 4,200,000 unemployed think? What do you think of the recovery, Mr Montoro, of the 1,870 900 long-term unemployed? What do the 8 610 495 social security pensioners who see their pensions this year as going to be revalued by 0.25 %, while inflation is expected to grow by around 2 %? What do you think of the recovery that you proclaim to the four winds the 600,000 unemployed young people? Or those young people who work a few hours a week or a few weeks a year? What do workers who earn wages of misery for exhausting and endless days think about recovery? What do you think of this recovery, Mr Montoro, of the 340 000 dependents who are waiting for help? These are not abstract concepts, they're all having a hard time, Mr. Montoro. How do these budgets respond to all these people? I'll also tell you with a few figures in my hand. The allocations for employment promotion are still today, when we have already had three years of recovery - it is already a reality - 25% less than those in the 2011 budgets. Education by 5.9% less; research, development and innovation by 20.4% less; infrastructure by 39.1% less State sector, which if we add public bodies and state societies to the State sector is 48.6% less infrastructure. Those aimed at trade, tourism and SMEs are 37.8 % less, and that is what they have signed an agreement with some political forces in which they say they are going to promote entrepreneurs and SMEs, 37.8 % less than in 2011, Mr Montoro. Social and social promotion services are 4.2% less, but with dependency they are eating twice as much, 9.6% less than in 2011; the promotion of equality between men and women is 36.6% less, and in order to demonstrate their strong commitment to gender-based violence, Mr Montoro, they lower the amount against gender-based violence by 8.7% compared to 2011, the year that there is more gender-based violence. Yesterday in Alcobendas a 44-year-old woman was stabbed to death and her son too. Are you telling us that you want to sign a state pact against gender-based violence and reduce the budget against gender-based violence by 8.7%? [[Applauds]] Don't wait for us in that paripé. If these figures remain so in the gender-based violence budget, we will not be sitting at a table again because we will not be paripés in the fight against gender-based violence, Mr Montoro, I tell you already. Unemployment protection 39.9% less, housing promotion 61.1% less, health spending 4% less than in 2011, when population ageing has continued to increase. You know this is true, so, what do you expect, that we support these budgets? Do you really think we're going to support these budgets, Mr. Montoro? Do you think we are going to negotiate these budgets that consolidate inequality and precariousness? I told him six months ago. Six months ago I told them that if the 2017 budgets were a continuous budget we wouldn't support them. They then accused me, as they have been doing successively, of making judgments of hasty intentions, but once the budgets have been seen that forecast has been confirmed. As you know very well, Mr Montoro, you know very well, the Spanish economy has been growing for thirteen consecutive quarters, and it is true that this year the Spanish economy will have a more moderate growth than that recorded in 2016; the latest data speak of 3.2 and will grow around 2.7 %, but then we will talk about this which you have hung at 11:30 on the ministry's website, at 11:30 you have hung it, Mr Montoro, then we will talk about it. [[Show a document]] All analyses agree that the growth of the world economy will continue to favor us, the circumstances of the economy, the low oil prices, which will not be expected to fire. Therefore, these tail winds will continue to work, but they will also disappear, according to all international analysts. That is why all these agencies look back on something very different, which is productivity, which is a key variable to increase the standard of living and the well-being of citizens and to consolidate a recovery that is still pending. But in recent years the productivity recovery has been very poor, even in the 2017-2020 Stability Programme you continue to set productivity at flat growth. How is the reading of these budgets in this area, that is, so that it can take off productivity? Desolation, Mr. Montoro. See, with respect to the last budgets of a socialist government, the planned investment in R & D+i is 20.4% lower than in 2011, 20.4%. If this is already very serious, this year it turns out that you have only implemented 38% of the budget allocated to R & D+i in the draft budgets. That is, 2 out of 3 euros in R & D+i are not spent, Mr Montoro. Therefore, you, first, draw little budgets, but also what little you draw, do not spend. As regards trade promotion policies, internationalisation of enterprises, they are again experiencing, compared with 2011, a cut of 32.2%, and in the industrial policy programme the cut is 34.4%. In infrastructure investment, the difference between 2011 and 2017 will be almost 50%; Mr Montoro, 50% in infrastructure between 2011 and 2017. Public investment has collapsed in these budgets. Territorialised public investment has fallen by an average of 20%, then you throw flowers at the Minister of Development if you want, but let's tell the truth: an average of 20%. Public investment falls into sixteen of the 17 autonomous communities. Do you really believe, Mr Montoro, that this is not going to have any effect on employment? He's gonna have them and he knows it. The loss of productivity and the consequent weakening of the growth that these cuts announce are offset in their scheme by the contribution of exports, okay, but it is that the greatest contribution of exports is not done because we do it much better or because we are putting in a lot of innovation, a lot of science and a lot of technology - that there are some companies that do it - is done primarily again on the workers' back, reducing their wages and working conditions, which is the unfair way you have to make our companies more competitive abroad. This is unfair and unsustainable, Mr Montoro. They cannot continue to be so unfair when it comes to treating workers. Along with productivity, the other lever to increase the well-being of our society is social cohesion, mainly to avoid that of Spain we make it cheaper, which ends up giving rise to a low-cost society not only in rights but mainly in the public services that are provided to citizens. However, Mr Montoro, the real problem of these years, as I told you a few minutes ago, is that the current growth is not reaching the Spaniards who have gone through the worst, those who have sacrificed themselves, those who have gone through it very badly these years, and thanks to the sacrifice of those, in theory, is how this country is going out ahead, but precisely those are not getting even the crumbs of that growth. Its economic policy has failed to bring the benefits of macroeconomic data to the majority, families and households, thousands of families and households. Basically for two reasons. One, your labour reform, which you are committed to maintaining and we will be committed to repealing, which does not allow for a balanced relationship between workers and employers precisely so that productivity increases reach workers' wages. [[Applauds]] And secondly, its fiscal and budgetary policy, which has been aimed at reducing the welfare state, raising taxes to workers and lowering them to higher incomes. Mr Montoro, the welfare of a society only improves when economic growth is harmonized with a fair share of that growth. However, you know that wages remuneration as a percentage of GDP - and it must also be done as a percentage of GDP. You, at one point, were referring to absolute figures and said: and also as a percentage of GDP. But at no time has it given the percentage of GDP - it has gone from 51% in 2009 to represent 47% in 2013 and since then constant. Workers with less income have seen their wages fall by 17% during the crisis. For this reason, it is essential that wages grow as they were asked for in the First of May UGT and the Workers' Commissions; and that in the collective bargaining that is being carried out an agreement is reached that allows to recover part of the huge wage reduction that their labor reform has brought about in recent years. Unfortunately, growth does not reach the long-term unemployed. Clearly, they have been left without benefits. Growth does not reach young people with precarious jobs. Growth does not reach child poverty. As it does not arrive, growth does not reach the workers who have a job and who have been reduced in their wages over these years. Mr Montoro, a high level of long-term unemployment persists, the most dramatic manifestation of which is the extraordinary increase in the fall in unemployment protection. Unemployment protection has fallen. I, these days that I have been following the appearances of the Secretaries of State and the high offices of the Government, saw that they were coming here and getting their breasts out, because they were saying: indeed, unemployment protection has fallen because unemployment has fallen. However, unemployment benefits have been reduced by 40% compared to the last budgets of a socialist government, EUR 12 156 million, but the unemployed have fallen by 20%. Keep these two figures: reduction of 40 % and decrease of 20 %. Do you know what that means? Thousands of workers, hundreds of thousands of workers who have been left in the gutter without any income in their homes. That's what this means, Mr. Montoro. [[Applauds]] But their reform has increased the problem of precariousness and is more explicitly encouraging the impoverishment of a new class of workers, who are young workers with short-term contracts, low wages and less working conditions than they were at the beginning of the crisis. With them you are getting a debt, but you are signing a mortgage with abusive clauses with the Spanish economy, which is losing all that talent because many of them are young researchers who are leaving Spain and are going to stay there to put their knowledge and experience and will not do so in Spain precisely because of these kinds of policies, Mr Montoro. It is therefore urgent that as soon as possible we begin to deal with the repeal of this labour reform and we will do so with regard to subcontracting and we hope to have the support of the whole House in this area. But it is also that between men and women who do have jobs, the deterioration of working conditions and specifically the fall in wages is very great, Mr Montoro. See, according to official data, work has ceased to be a decent guarantee of life for 14% of workers who are statistically considered poor. Mr Montoro, the scars of the crisis, which are very deep, remain deep and are very marked; and instead of curing them, of regenerating them, of regenerating that social fabric, of erasing those traces, these policies chronicle them. You have spoken of deficit and there is something we can agree on on on this subject. Because with the largest public deficit in the European Union - the European Union -, with a debt of 100 per cent of GDP, with nominal GDP growth of around 5 per cent, the reduction of the deficit in a situation like that of Spanish finances is not an option, it is not a capital injection policy, if I may say so, it is arithmetic. With this level of deficit and public debt the political debate is not whether or not the deficit can be reduced, or whether it wants to be reduced; no. The debate, where politics comes in, is about how, and that is where we are radically disagreeing, Mr Montoro, about how you want to reduce the deficit, because we do not agree on your fiscal policy nor do we agree on your income policy, let alone on your spending policy. With this level of deficit and public debt, that is the real debate. We do not agree with a reduction in the deficit, which is being carried out, because it falls on the shoulders of the less-favoured sectors of society and, above all, because it is falling on the burden of the welfare state, on the large public services, on what they had conquered for many years complete generations of citizens. You have decided that at the end of your Government there will be an increasingly small social state and a diminished welfare state. [[Applauds]] In the depths of the crisis we were told by all Spaniards that the welfare state had to be cut to reduce the deficit and now, that economic recovery has arrived, fiscal policy should be used to co-ordinate our society and compensate for the majority of the pain that has been caused to them during these years. Now our country is growing and an effort could be made, some could make an effort; but no, that is not the answer you have given. You have decided to give around 18 billion mainly to high incomes, while social spending is losing weight in national wealth, weight in national wealth in percentage, Mr Montoro. If we review the fiscal consolidation process in our country since 2014, the first year with positive economic growth until the government forecasts for 2017, we can see that total revenues are reduced by 0.6% in relation to GDP and expenditure by 3.2%. The latter will increase from 44.7% to 41.5%, from 44 to 41.5. This helps, on the one hand, the arbitrary interpretation that you are making of the rule of spending. By the way, Mr Montoro, you have committed yourself to this House to review it before the end of this semester and we hope that you will review it, as requested by the majority of the House and as requested by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, because there is no right to be analysed and the spending rule applied in such an inflexible and irrational way. It has been the local administrations that have tightened the belt most and yet you continue to apply the spending rule to them irrationally and ideologically, and it is the municipalities that are providing great services to the citizenry. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, you have made an irresponsible tax reform. You did a tax reform before the election with the goal you did, Mr. Montoro. But, look at that opportunistic tax reform that you did before the elections, besides being opportunistic, is unfair, but the most serious thing is that it was about to cost us a sanction by the European Union for breaching the deficit target. And the worst part is that the government told the Spaniards that they had to tighten their belts, while that tax reform gave millions of euros to higher incomes. Therefore, the government's policy is not to build what Rodrik has called a bumper; a bumper, which is the welfare state, in the face of a situation that is that of the globalized world, that of the globalized economy that affects people. You have thought that these two sides of the same coin, which is to promote the modernization of the economy, to compete in the international economy and, on the other hand, to compensate those who are suffering from technological changes and international competition, can be dissociated, and that is precisely the question that cannot be dissociated, unless you want, Mr Montoro, what the liberals say: to starve the beast. The beast is the welfare state, Mr. Montoro. [[Rumors]] Here's the data to corroborate it. [[Show a document to the House]] According to the update of the 2017-2020 stability programme, approved by the government on Friday, sent to Brussels on Friday or Saturday, Mr Montoro, hung on the ministry's website today at 11 a.m. in the morning, the social expenditure of the general government as a whole will grow, in nominal terms, by 2.2% compared to 2016, but inflation will do about 2% and 5% of nominal GDP. Then per capita social spending will lose purchasing power and lose weight on GDP. In particular, social spending represented 28.65 % of GDP in 2014, will be cut to 26,9 % in 2017 and their aspiration - they have told Brussels, here has come to tell us something else - is that in 2020 it is 25.55 %. Who are you lying to, Mr. Montoro? Is Brussels lying? You have to go to page 101 of the document that you hung at 11:30 to realize that when you were in this rostrum breast-feeding for social spending you were taking our ass, Mr Montoro. [[Applauds]] I was kidding us because social protection in 2011, according to what you have reported to Brussels, was 16.83 % and by 2020 will be 15.91 %, and here are the pensions put in, Mr Montoro. Education in 2011 accounted for 4.40 % of GDP and by 2020 it will be 3.67 %. These are not paintings that I have made in my home or in my office; I have preferred to bring yours to show you that you were cheating on us, Mr. Montoro. [[Applauds]] From the year in which the economic recovery began until 2020, the whole adjustment will take place on the social expenditure side and it must be very clear that with the model of society resulting from an adjustment of these characteristics we will never agree. Keep it clear. I tell you very clearly, Mr Montoro, do not count on us for that social skein, do not count on us to be part of the group of countries of the European Union which has a smaller social state and, of course, the more developed countries, which have a much larger social state than you want. We don't resign ourselves to that. They continue to put social security at risk. The income from contributions was diverted from the 2016 forecast by 13 600 million euros - they know - which shows that, despite the net job creation, the division of employment that is being done, the budget forecasts are still insufficient to put an end to this structural imbalance. The Secretary of State for Budgets, Mr Nadal, even acknowledged this the other day. Why? Because of the precariousness in the world of work, the wages that are being paid, the type of employment that is being created. As the update of the stability programme you have sent to Brussels, which tells you the truth, for the first time in history, as a result of the 2013 reform, pension spending in the coming decades will be lower than we have today, but with about 6 million more pensioners. How do you eat that, Mr. Montoro? What's going to happen to the pensions? Tell the pensioners when you get up. The consequence is that the amount of the pension will be lower or, at least, will have much less purchasing power and this is largely due to the fact that pensions in Spain are updated without taking into account price developments. That does not happen in any country in the world, except Lithuania, so neither do they count on us to maintain that pension reform they did to untie them from the prices. [[Applauds]] Nor do they count on us for this, there is no pact possible. I'm done. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are being discussed at a time when citizens feel deeply disgusted by the latest cases of corruption that have appeared without the government moving a muscle. Rather, the actions of the Government, Mr President, are not aimed at what you repeat that the person who makes it pays it; rather, they are aimed at protecting those who have made it, at trying to get those who have made it out of roses. And in this disgusting political climate, after six months in full office, Mr Rajoy, with a policy of cuts, of limitation of rights, of passivity in the face of poverty or inequality, of social insensitivity, of contumacy in the labor reform, which has impoverished and precarious millions of workers, with an unjust survival and taxation and absence of alternative in an economic model that is obsolete, come here to support their budgets. No, Mr Montoro, we are not going to support these budgets. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u12	I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hernando, I am concerned about corruption, the government is concerned about corruption. Corruption not only worries us, it embarrasses us and angers us. Corruption hurts; it hurts especially when those who practice it are people who should have made a legitimate use of the trust that has been placed in them. There are many things that concern us in Spain, which concern us throughout Europe. We are concerned about corruption, we are concerned about the economic crisis, we are concerned about how it comes out of an economic crisis like the one we have experienced, we are concerned about terrorism, we are concerned about climate change, we are concerned about anti-European positions, we are concerned about protectionism, we are concerned about totalitarian populisms; we are concerned about many things, Mr Hernando, and these things are more of common concern than of confrontation, they are grounds for encounters and not dissents. The Government is making institutions work, the Government trusts in justice, in the independent action of all anti-corruption institutions, as the Tax Agency does. It does so effectively in the fight against tax fraud, which is a form of corruption, a very serious form of corruption. Because tax laws decide them in this House, they are democratic, and therefore those who falsify and go against those laws are actually acting corruptly. That is why, Mr Hernando, a party like the Socialist Party, which is a governing party in the half of the autonomous communities of Spain, which is a governing party in thousands of cities in Spain, which has been a long-running party from the Cortes Generales of Spain, obviously, instead of emphasizing a certain discourse that gives wings to these populisms, should emphasize much more constructive discourses on how to fight corruption effectively, as is being shown to be being done in today's Spain. [[Applauds]] Because all these cases are cases of the past; they are cases that affect many and not just the People's Party. That is why I was telling you, Mr Hernando, that you should consider that the effectiveness of the fight against this scourge should really lead you to support and promote new actions, rather than to give rise to confrontations. On the other hand, you insist on arguments that, from a political point of view, have been really long in time. Nor am I new in this, much less, in what it means to present general State budgets, to be responsible for economic policies and, in this regard, to face great difficulties. I would gladly refer you to what was the end of my public interventions from this very forum on the occasion of the presentation of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2012, where I said I trusted that Spain - that great country - had the capacity to cope with the worst crisis that has lived in its history - the year 2012-; in the presentation of the 2013 budgets, where I said that 2013 was going to be the last year of economic recession in Spain, of falling economic activity - said from this forum; in the presentation of the 2014 budgets, where I said that 2014 would be the first budget in which we would have a significant job creation in our country and, therefore, we would start to exit the recession. And all this has been happening, Mr Hernando; all this has been happening because, as I have tried to explain and defend, we have made the policy that our country needed, the budgetary policy that it needed to overcome an economic crisis that, Mr Hernando, others did not want to see - or did not? - they did not want to diagnose - or did not? - and they gave him a wrong treatment in terms of what this morning he called - I did not mean the Autonomous Communities - the drunkenness of spending. Or wasn't it? Wasn't it? Didn't the E plans exist? I was not sitting on that bench, opposing the socialist government, and I told you from this very rostrum? Did that drunken expense get us out of the crisis? Did they create stable employment? Did the 2009 autonomous funding create it: 11.3 billion euros more for the autonomous communities than the state had no capacity to deal with? Didn't we tell him from this rostrum? [[A Member of Parliament: It was not so!]] [[A honourable Member: No!]] I had the honour to say so from this rostrum representing the People's Parliamentary Group in the opposition. I told him: this way we're going to crush the country. And we crushed him. Or didn't we crush him, Mr. Hernando? Wasn't that the expense drunk I was talking about this morning? No one's asking for a drunk now. By the way, the President of the Eurogroup is a socialist minister of the Netherlands, he belongs to his political group. The criticisms are therefore directed directly at you from the European Socialist Party; it is not up to us to do so in relation to what the President of the Eurogroup thinks about the countries of southern Europe. [[Applauds]] I have already spoken this morning about the importance of the European project, the construction of this European project, the integration of Europe, and I am pleased that your honour agrees with me that the public deficit must be reduced. So how are we reducing the government deficit? Mr Hernando, in 2007 the Socialist Government did not want to see the crisis. Then books were written to say: I already said it; but I didn't do it when I was sitting on the blue bench. By the way, I love reading that kind of literature, I really evoke and develop my imagination, not as a politician or as a ruler, but as a physical person; the truth is that when you read those books, you think that this situation never existed. [[Laughter]] In them it is said: I already said it. I didn't say it here; here they said there was no reason to worry, here they said there was no reason for unease, here they said there was no problem of financial leverage in the private sector, that our banks were phenomenal, that nothing was happening here. That's what they said from here. Or didn't they say? Now it will turn out that they did not say it and instead of going up here to recognize their mistakes, as others do when we have to recognize them - as I have done right now with corruption - and to say that we can look for coincidences, you say: I will make a completely different approach to budgetary policy. In 2007, as I read this morning - this of the percentages is a bit heavy, I said earlier, but in a budget debate we have to talk about figures and percentages - the total public expenditure on the total gross domestic product - the total, Mr Hernando - was 39%. We have not yet recovered the same gross domestic product from 2007, although we are about to do so. Since then, Spain has lost half a million inhabitants: we were 47 million and now we are 46.5 million. What, then, does the government's policy mean? Reduce the weight of expenditure on gross domestic product. Does that mean you reduce total social spending? No, it is rising to a total as never before, Mr Hernando, EUR 307 billion is planned for this year. How much is EUR 307 billion out of a total expenditure that we are planning for 41% of GDP that is the same as in 2007? This has already been... Finally, the figures and percentages should not be overstated, but do not go up to the rostrum to say that this Government is reducing public social spending by 2007. Read the stability program. The figures are : function 10, social protection - half are pensions, and unemployment insurance, dependency or care for disability, i.e. the figures for monetary resources go to the people who need it most; in this stability programme that you have given to read this morning it is planned that all the public administrations will spend 192 463 million euros, and how much is that compared to 2007, which was 138 000 euros? Has that social protection gone up or down in Spain? [[Show a chart]] Almost EUR 60 billion, EUR 57 billion more, as I said this morning. But, of course, you prepare some things and then you come up here - I understand it - and you say what you have prepared, but this has to be studied, you have to master it and you have to be used to reading these figures. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] How can you say with these figures that in Spain social protection has fallen if almost EUR 60 billion more is being spent? How can you say that? Well, health, function 7; expenditure: EUR 69 054 million. [[Show a chart]] Health expenditure, function 7, in 2007, without crisis: EUR 61 238 million. Is it spending more on health than in 2007, when there was no crisis, yes or no? That socialist government that had public spending on 39% of gross domestic product... What a reproach, it will now turn out that Mr Zapatero's socialist government in 2007 did not spend enough. God damn it! This is the world upside down, I have to go up here and say what I don't think is good for Spain, because the problem of the crisis in 2007 is not public spending, it is not the deficit, it doesn't exist, because we have a surplus of public administrations. The problem is that we have 90% of external debt turned on the private sector against the rest of the world; that is the problem of Spain, the leverage of the private sector. That is the problem of Spain, the problem that we did not want to see and we went to the 2008 elections and there happened what happened, which the Socialist Party won, 10,900,000 votes, against the People's Party, 10 million votes. This is the recent history of Spain. But the problems have to be addressed, they have to be addressed, and that is what we have done. We have received a country with a very high private sector leverage, which has fallen by EUR 431 billion, and with a frightening public deficit, the largest in our history, which was generated in 2009 and which reached 11% of gross domestic product, when in 2007 there was a surplus of 2%, a surplus of public administrations. Mr Hernando, I keep asking myself: if there had been a government in Spain that in the 2008 general elections would have used the surplus of public administrations to drain that foreign debt of the country rather than trying to spend it in the administrations, as they did, destroying practically those 3 million long jobs - the total destruction has reached 3,600 000 - what would have happened in the history of Spain? That's spilled milk, I agree, but let me at least think intellectually. That is spilled milk and we are not here, in this debate, to be crying about spilled milk, but let us not now do the exorbitant thing that this government is doing completely opposite things, that it is chasing the weakest in society; that is what the others are going to say, don't worry about it.For that you will already see how you have leftover candidates in this House; you have leftover candidates. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] You compete with a kind of political rival that there you are. In the 2016 budgets, I had the opportunity to tell Mr Sánchez, who was sitting there. Do you remember I told you? I had an opportunity to tell you: you've been wrong, you've been wrong. It has been wrong not with the Socialist Party, but with the policy we had to have in this House. I told you so, and you have it in the Journals of Sessions. And I told him a few more things about the political future that we were going to live in our country from then on, starting with the municipal elections in May 2015. So, Mr Hernando, we are doing a social policy; we are doing a social policy. Does that mean we're giving up other policies? I already recognized that this morning, we are giving up other policies. Sure, but what's going on in Spain? Are we growing or are we not growing? Are we growing twice as much as the European Union or are we not growing twice as much as the European Union? Do we not have the same framework as the rest of the European Union? Aren't the so-called tail winds the same for all countries? Is the monetary policy of the European Central Bank not the same for all countries? Ergo something we are doing positive in Spain, something positive the Spaniards are doing because we have that capacity; it is not the Government, it is the Spaniards who have that capacity to face their difficulties, the toughest difficulties. This is a great country, Mr Hernando, a country that does not kneel, a country that stands up to adversity, a country that is able to cope with the most difficult situations, and that country is reacting positively to these policies that we are doing. And that is what we are inviting you to do: to build and to agree on these policies together, because making budgets together is precisely to fine-tune the budgets with the bet of the political groups involved in those budgets; that is to make budgets and that is to support budgets and that is the invitation we are making. The arguments you have presented to me this morning are old, we need to update. Let us turn to the following questions. If we have growth, how do we guarantee that we will continue to have growth? If we have job creation - or is it not true that we have job creation? - how do we make this job more intense and of better quality? That's the big question. Who says we're getting along with what we're getting? On the contrary, what we are saying from the Government is that we have much to go on in terms of creating jobs, creating opportunities for all, but that is on the way. How can we despise him? Which is one of the autonomous communities that most employment is creating, Mr. Heredia, what is it? Andalucia? Because it turns out that when a socialist spokesman is in Andalusia he says that Andalusia is recovering economically and when that same socialist spokesman speaks from here he says that all employment is a tragedy. Man, not one thing or the other, I say; there will be an average term in the definitions, there will be a geographical rating that is actually making it possible for economic recovery to reach all places in Spain and that everywhere there will be more and more employment opportunities. And I think that we have to celebrate it, we have to feel better and safer, because the new job is the security of the welfare state, it really makes us think about being more optimistic about the future of pensions, so that in the future we can improve pensions. It also appears in that stability programme that we are estimating that, under current conditions, the pension deficit in 2020 would be only 0.5%. Therefore, a deficit totally compensated by the surplus of other public administrations, but that does not prevent - this morning invited to this - the subcommission of the Toledo Pact from addressing what must be the present and future of pensions in Spain and reaching a consensus and agreement. Mr Hernando said, how is it not going to affect the lack of investment in job creation? But is jobs being created or not being created? The Social Security membership rate is in March at 3.5. When has the annual social security membership rate been at 3.5? In the years of greatest job creation. So is employment being created, yes or no? Yes, there is a job being created. If we had more public investment, would more jobs be created? Probably, but we have to choose. To rule is to choose. And where's the priority? In social spending. Is this policy being effective with a moderate increase in public investment to create employment? Of course I do. Almost every two jobs created in the European Union are being created in Spain. How can one deny that jobs are being created? At what rate do you want jobs to be created? This year we will create more than 500,000 jobs in terms of EPA, national accounting. Therefore, we are talking about an economic advance with a really big social dimension. And this is consistent with productivity. Gross domestic product, the country's income is growing more than employment does, and that productivity gain is shifting to the competitiveness of our economy, which has never been as internationalized as it is now. Mr. Hernando, tax reform. Model 720 of foreign property declaration and model 750, which you continue to call tax amnesty. A tax amnesty, which is allowing the origin of the funds that took hold of it to be investigated! That is what is allowing the outflow of goods and rights abroad of our country, which reaches the figure, which had never been seen in Spain, of EUR 95 billion net. I am convinced that such a declaration of property abroad, that dimension, is one of the causes of economic recovery, because it means, in the end, that individuals, legal entities that had not previously declared that they had such property or rights abroad, in declaring them, are mobilizing them as an economic resource and that is, I said, one of the impulses of such economic recovery. Tax reform, which you have criticized for the same thing and on the contrary also - in that I will not deny the consistency of the Socialist Group, which is discussing the same and the opposite -. They say we lower taxes. It is that we have lowered taxes in the years 2015 and 2016 by 12,300 million euros, which means a decrease of the IRPF of more than 8 billion. Was that all for the rich? That is on the payroll of all the workers in Spain, of all - by the way, on their payroll too; we have also lowered the income tax on natural persons - and it is one of the reasons why Spain is growing and creating employment. But do you have a proposal to reform the IRPF? Well, bring it, but don't make me those proposals that others make: the rich overseas! [[Rumors]] What a political speech some of your ladies and gentlemen have. Let's talk seriously about the impact of tax reform. You have supported the proposal to amend the company tax in December last year. Is he giving results, yes or no? He's giving results. Were the bulldozers right that this corporate tax reform was going to stop the economy? But it's accelerating! The first quarter is accelerating in relation to the end of last year, with an inter-quarterly growth of 0.8 % and with job creation. They weren't right. But say it, you have supported this tax change precisely to make it easier for us to have sufficient funding in the State's budgets, among other reasons, as I said, to finance the autonomous communities. Does this funding, Mr Hernando, depend on the autonomous communities of these state budgets? Is your honor against, as you have said here, the provision from the State budget of an additional EUR 4400 million to the Autonomous Communities? Is your lordship against that? Because that is what these General State Budgets contain. I would distinguish - Sartori did too, who died very recently - between ideas and ideology. One thing is to have ideas and another thing is to have ideology in the sense of presumption of ideas. Ideology is a summary of ideas that are not understood and that are presumed to have them instead of being able to explain the ideas that give rise to that ideology. You, with all your right, will be of an ideology, but ideas have few, especially own ideas. I do not mean you, Mr Hernando, but I was speaking in general terms of ideology and ideas, but it is that your Lordship has criticized you for talking about political philosophy this morning. Of course, his political philosophy is different! Who was going to say no? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u15	Its political philosophy is different from that of the People's Party, of course, but we are going to recognize things, we are going to recognize economic policies and the effectiveness of economic policy, and when we need political stability in our country it is the time when, instead of giving wings to demagoguery, people who sit in these seats have to decide between what they understand can ideally be an optimal and what they understand that at this time is right for the country, for Spain. Mr Hernando, that is your decision, not another, let us not now walk in the branches of political philosophy. The issue is much simpler, but also serious. What are you doing? Does it contribute to Spain's political stability by allowing for the lighting of new General State Budgets for 2017? That is the responsibility of the Socialist Party this afternoon. If you do not do so after having supported the spending ceiling - the deficit targets of the Autonomous Communities and the General Administration of the State - and the tax measures, you will have to explain from this rostrum - I leave it for you to explain to us, Mr Hernando that the Socialist Party is thinking of other things. But before other things, Mr Hernando, members of the Socialist Party, there is Spain, there is the general interest of the Spanish. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u16	Mr Hernando Vera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u17	Mr Montoro, curious way to defend the 2017 budgets back to 2007; you could have back to 2003 in which, do you remember what was called the economic miracle? Rodrigo Rato. [[Applauds]] Rodrigo Rato was the economic miracle; today he is with one foot in his house and the other in prison. But since I only have five minutes, I'm going to talk to you about two or three little things, just to keep them on tape. You're done talking about responsibility and stability, and I'm gonna start there. He also spoke of responsibility in the morning, he did so two or three times at the beginning of his speech, and I do not want to avoid that debate. You accuse us of not being responsible for supporting the deficit target, the deficit path, and not supporting these budgets, and I do not want this to be without debate. Look, between you and us - even between you and me - there's a big difference in this issue. Because when this country, when Spain - you said this morning - was on the verge of collapse, on the edge of the precipice, when we were about to be rescued, your party through you went up to this rostrum to push to see if we were going down. And my party, when Spain was immersed in an unprecedented institutional and political crisis, just a few months ago, went up to this rostrum, you know what for, Mr Montoro? To rescue Spain from a third election. That's the difference between you and us. [[Applauds]] So do not try to give me lessons of responsibility, Mr Montoro; you are not going to give my party lessons of responsibility because we have been responsible for 138 years of history, in hiding and in exile and, in democracy, in the government and in the opposition, always putting Spain's interests ahead of our party's interests. [[Applauds]] And you're a witness, and so are you, Mr. Rajoy. Second thing I want to say to you in relation to responsibility. The dictionary of the Royal Academy defines responsibility as the quality of being responsible. Do you know what the second sense of responsibility is? I open spoons. 'Debt, obligation to repair and satisfy, by himself or by another person, as a result of an offence, guilt or other legal cause'. You want us to keep talking about responsibility? Do you really want us to keep talking about responsibility right now? Really? [[Applauds]] If you had been responsible, we would not find ourselves, and above all you, in the situation in which you are in, but much less would have the pending country, for its irresponsibility, of the cases of corruption in which you are immersed. [[Applauds]] So, Mr Montoro, the next time I come to give lessons of responsibility to me or my party, it applies to you first and then demands it from the President of the Government, who is sitting close to you. [[Applauds]] Mr. Montoro, I've got a minute and a half left. You spoke this morning of prestige, consistency; trust is fundamental to prestige and consistency. Mr De Guindos has said this in Brussels recently, and we agree that these budgets need to be approved - in your view - in order to have confidence in Spain and to maintain the prestige of our country. And, indeed, trust is a volatile element, it is a subjective element. The point is that you are accusing us of destroying Spain's trust or prestige for not supporting these budgets. You said it. We think that bad budgets do not generate confidence and these are not the right budgets for Spain, but above all they are not the right budgets for the Spanish. But let me tell you one last last thing. If you believe that having no budgets is negative for trust, wait to evaluate what it will mean for the prestige of the Spanish economy to see a president marching before the courts, a government sitting on a dustbin of corruption, a party occupying the institutions to defend their fellow prisoners, leaders looting public enterprises and benefiting from tax amnesties to launder the money they have stolen. That is indeed a weapon of mass destruction of the confidence and prestige of the Spanish economy and of the country. [[Applauds]] That does end trust and prestige, and not that there are bad budgets. So our responsibility to the general interest is to reject budgets and an economic policy that does not spread growth or close the social gap or rebuild the deteriorated welfare state or modernise our economy or prepare us for the future. You fulfill your responsibility, and do it now, and do it soon. They assume their responsibilities that we will fulfil ours by voting against these budgets, Mr Montoro. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u18	I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hernando, of course what has become clear is one thing: you have not come to talk about the general state budgets for 2017. [[Applauds]] That has been obvious, which, look, gives me hope. I'm gonna get positive and everything. Perhaps it is a key that interests us in the future because we hope that these budgets will prosper tomorrow, go to the Commission and we can do a joint job there, because it is clear that you here to talk about budgets have not come. At the last minute he said as an excuse: I am running out of time and I am against it because there is no inclusive recovery. Let's get to work so there's more inclusive recovery. If I have already told you the recovery there is, what there is is the most creator of employment, the most social protection. What do we have to do? What are the Socialist Party's proposals? Are they going to formulate them in the form of partial amendments to these budgets? But you are not making an amendment to the whole of the State's General Budgets, you are using another kind of argument, which is also a political argument because each one - of course, only missing in a free and democratic country - uses the argument that to your good understanding and knowledge suits you. But he's going to let me talk about his political argument, which is responsibility. Of course we all assume our responsibility, of course we do. I insist, and I have made it clear this morning, how will a member of the Government of Spain not do so? Take responsibility, from one to the other. And how is a member of this House not going to do that? To assume responsibility at all times, also in times of crisis, and of social crisis. That's doing politics, taking responsibility. At a time of division of the House, responsibility, the search for political stability is in sharing responsibilities. That is what the Socialist Party has begun to do in this parliamentary term, and I am pleased that that has been so because that gives Spain seriousness and rigour. Therefore, what I hope is that today's debate does not serve as a further confrontation; it has remained in the matter of responsibility, as if this were a political intellectual finding. Of course, who denies that responsibility? But at a time like this responsibility, I insist, must be shared. If we are to facilitate economic recovery and job creation, we must seek that co-responsibility with political groups. Am I convinced that all political groups want economic recovery and job creation? Well, no, what am I gonna say it for, and we're gonna have a chance to prove it this afternoon. I'm sure you won't and you'll see what you're talking about this afternoon. Why are you talking about this? Because it's more current. Today it is not job creation, today it is not the welfare of people, today it is not the care of the weakest through social protection, today it is not citizen security or the efficient administration of justice, today it is not national defence or anti-terrorist policy. That is not the case, but the other is the case; however, the fact that the institutions operate in this country, the fact that certain conducts would be irreproducible in this country is what we are talking about and what we should be talking about this afternoon here in Parliament. The Socialist Group has not come to talk about this, there you are with your discretion and, of course, with your freedom of choice; there you are. I have to insist that the matter is different. Are we going to have continuity in economic recovery and job creation? Are we going to improve the quality of these jobs? Are we going to develop social conditions so that these wages are actually improving also through lower taxes? Are we gonna do all this or are we not gonna do it? Are we going to do it with you, with the Socialist Group, or not? Where is the Socialist Group? What are you doing? [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] I think that in a few weeks we will have an answer, and what I really hope is that that answer coincides with the general interest of the Spaniards. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Montero Soler has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. What are you going to do, Minister? What are you doing? Again, you present us here today with General State Budgets for 2017 as the most social budgets in history. Every time you present budgets are the most social budgets in history. Budgets that, according to your party and your governing partners, are the ones that Spain needs because, of course, an expansive budget at the moment of economic growth, with which your mouth is filled, it seems to you that they would be a drunk, using terms that you yourself have reproached the president of the Eurogroup when he said that in Spain we spent European funds on cups and women. Don't you think you owe an apology to the rest of the country and less explanation than you are giving in this Chamber in such a tortuous way? Minister, Spain does not need these budgets, the Spanish do not need these budgets. I am sure that you know this because you have been Minister of Economy for many years; you know perfectly well that in politics love is demonstrated in budgets. This is the main political document with which a Government presents itself to the citizenry and shows it its love and its displeasure at the territorial and sectoral levels, to what it attaches importance and to what it does not lend itself to. And, look where, these budgets express that their relationship with the Spanish people, with the Spanish citizens is exhausted; think about divorce. Your Government and Spain are on different paths and you have not yet found out. The crisis, however heavy we are, has not yet been left behind, because of a country which has 28% of its population in poverty or at risk of social exclusion, it can never be said, under any circumstances, that it has left behind the crisis; that is not a fact, Minister, that these are millions of truncated lives that must be rescued as soon as possible. We may have left the hardest behind - I will not deny it, it would be absurd to deny it - but you cannot deny me either that if we get out of this crisis with one third of the population of this excluded country it is that we will have failed as a country project and there you will have a high level of responsibility. Mr Montoro, these budgets show the little appreciation you have for our people; moreover, they show that your political project is completely exhausted and that, since they cannot offer changes, what they offer is more than the same, but worse. In fact, your budgets again present to the Spaniards the only recipe you know how to cook: putting the fiscal adjustment before the main concern of citizenship, unemployment. While the CIS, the Spaniards, say that 72% of the Spaniards believe that the main problem in this country is unemployment, you are still committed to prioritising the reduction of the public deficit at a rate that is above our possibilities. Does that ring a bell? By the way, since this morning you decided to use the rostrum as a university platform and started to teach, have you ever wondered, on a idle afternoon in which you were engaged in reflection, what is the relationship between having made one of the biggest fiscal adjustments in the European Union and having the second highest unemployment rate in the whole of the European Union? Have you ever wondered whether the speed at which we are going to square public accounts is inversely proportional to the slowness with which unemployment in this country is reduced? [[Applauds]] To say that the lesson we have just learned in recent years is that high deficit and high unemployment go hand in hand is a rhetorical excess even for you. And if not, continue to consult the CIS and see what the Spanish think of the Spanish economy and its project: 84% think the situation is between regular and very bad; 78% think the situation is equal to or worse than a year ago; 62% think the situation will be equal to or worse than the current one within a year And what does it offer the Spanish? More of the same. More of the same recipe they were cooking. Their mouths are filled with their achievements in the large macroeconomic variables but they present us with budgets with a cut of 5493 million euros, approved in their agreement of 30 December non-availability. Or didn't they approve? With a spending ceiling of more than €5 billion less than the 2016 budgets. Are these the recovery budgets, Mr. Montoro? Are these the budgets that you offer to the citizens, to whom you have thanked for the effort during all these years of the crisis? Is the moment when the recovery takes place or is it glimpsed on the horizon and you go on to tell them that I take care of the expense drunkards? Was today the day to say that? How much more social suffering are we going to allow in this country? Can we afford more social suffering? Because your merit is not only to rule with your backs to the majority feeling of the population, Minister, you have succeeded, put to make economic history, an unprecedented thing in the history of this country: to break the link between economic growth and public revenue collection, for the first time in two decades. Last year GDP grew at a rate of 3.2% and tax revenues did so at a rate of 2.3%, the first time in 20 years that elasticity does not match. And not content with that, it shows a growth rate of tax revenue in the budgets of 7.9%. He intends to make us believe that tax revenues are going to grow this year three times as much as they did last year, even though even Airef is against it. And it says it without any kind of blush. Do you not know that the Spanish already know that the forecast of inflated budgetary revenue translates into the non-availability agreement; that is, cuts or tax increases that they have not wanted to collect in the budgets but that Mr De Guindos already has an agreement with Brussels in case the deficit goes out of his hands? So, Mr Montoro, these are not the budgets that Spain needs, what Spain needs are budgets that collect different political and economic priorities, priorities in line with the real situation of the country, not with macroeconomic variables. What Spain needs are budgets that focus on the great axes of social and economic transformation of the country, and because it is even a moral obligation - since it has been put with philosophy this morning -: first, with the citizens who have gone through the worst of the crisis in their flesh. We must narrow the social deficit gap we have with Europe, and do not tell me that this gap does not exist or has been exacerbated by the crisis. And for that it is not enough with the canteen that it will suffice with job creation to bridge the gap. If that were the case, if employment were enough to generate social inclusion, we would not have 15% of workers in poverty, working full-time and in poverty. You have made working in this country no longer a vector of social inclusion. In Spain it is no longer enough to create jobs and of course it is not enough to create the jobs that you are creating. At this point, Mr Montoro, focusing only on how much matters is already a fairly primitive position. Not only does it matter the size, Mr Montoro, at this point you should know; it also matters the quality. Here we need to develop specific policies aimed at reducing inequalities, eradicating poverty and exclusion and not just creating poor and precarious jobs. Here we need more redistributive and entrepreneurial state and less confidence in the free market forces, those free market forces that buy their freedom at blows of envelopes in their party box. Here it is necessary to reverse all cuts that have occurred in equality, education and dependence. Moreover, Mr Montoro, budgetary policy is for something more than meeting the deficit objective, it is to offer the country a different scenario of the future, an aspirational horizon in line with the aspirations of the population, and for that it is necessary to put budgetary policy at the service of the transformation and modernization of economic growth and that goes, among other things, through the energy transition. Even if it is only because that is the horizon towards which the most advanced economies of our environment are directed, do not invent, copy and let's head there. Thirdly, a change in the productive model in this country is imperative, and it is not enough just to say that it is necessary to do so. This must be done and this is demonstrated by the facts and budgets, because public investment in 2017, if it comes to implementing it, that is another issue, is already 2.6% lower than in 2016 and 59% lower than in 2009. So is the country going so well that we don't devote more resources to public investment in the OECD economy that it least devotes to that heading? Fourthly, we must listen to the Spaniards and, if the Spaniards are concerned about unemployment, you are starting to work for job creation, because the job they are creating is only a statistical illusion and not the basis for autonomous vital projects. We don't need that kind of job, Mr. Montoro. That kind of job is enough for us. Spain needs high-quality employment, and this requires an expanded and balanced fiscal policy that supports the creation of high-quality jobs. Mr. Montoro, I'm not going to ask you to abandon your obsession with the public deficit because it doesn't take off in two days, even if you're healing by reading. I recommend that you stop reading so much philosophy and start reading a little more economy, which left you quite behind. [[Applauds]] At least listen to what the Spaniards ask of you, which is not so difficult either, it is simply a question of listening. The real tax problem in Spain is that it prevents it from complying with its obsession with the deficit because our level of tax revenue is much lower than the European average, and look around for data. It is there, together with the best progressive tax structure, that any rigorous proposal that seeks to address both social and economic transformation and consolidation of public accounts must pass through. For that it is necessary to collect more and spend better. It is necessary to budget well, which you are given to regulate, and to execute better, which you are given quite badly. It is basically necessary for a Government other than its own to present general budgets other than its own. That is what we have done from our Confederal Group: to offer you a budgetary alternative, which is at your disposal, where we propose measures for the transition to a new productive model. Finally - I conclude - and I am no longer just addressing you, ladies and gentlemen, today there is a sufficient majority here to defend budgets that are different from those presented by the People's Party. I am not addressing Citizens, because it is not worth much of a waste of time either, who are the crutches of the most corrupt government in Europe, but I do believe that we could finally find greater affinity in other groups in this House. [[Applauds]] I turn to the Socialist bench and say basically two things: the first of these is that today was not the day to talk about the motion of censure to the Government, that there will be time for that because for that we have introduced it, Mr Hernando, and the day will come to talk about that issue. Indeed, instead of making so many accusations to the Government today, remember what it stood for at the time and what it voted for in the last investiture debate and will help justify many of the reasons that have brought us here today. [[Mrs Batet Lamaña and Mrs Pérez Domínguez say words that are not perceived]] The second is that you cannot by active or passive support these budgets. And you, who have already said that you are not going to vote for them, although you have made it possible to present these budgets in the House, but not your canary subsidiary. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u22	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u23	Let's see how you explain to your voters that a Member elected on their lists by New Canarias is going to vote in favour of the same budgets you are rejecting. [[Applauds]] They assume their role and do not place on Mr Quevedo's back the responsibility to vote in favour, on behalf of the Socialist Party, of the budgets of the People's Party. On the other hand, I would like to stress that these budgets are not negotiated but bought. To obtain their approval they have bought the vote of the Basque Nationalist Party for a discount in the Basque quota for this year of 675 million euros. This says very little about their bargaining capacity, but much about their purchasing capacity. [[Applauds]] You plurinationality understand it at checkpoint. In conclusion, Minister. To make it clear to you, in case it has not been, it has our vote against. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u24	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea too, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Mr Montoro, the General Budgets of the State are always an opportunity to degenerate what is the model of society the Government thinks should be applicable to our country. In this regard, we have always said that the general budgets are an expression of the ideology of the Government, and that is the important thing, which allows us to have that opportunity. Of course, that means separating the grain from the straw, the relevant information that allows us to understand that model of society from what is pure and exclusively propaganda, which is where I think we should reserve much of its intervention this morning. We are all aware that the economy is growing. The gross domestic product is growing - before that there is no doubt - and you are the sea of content for that fact, because for many years you have been saying that you have to make sacrifices, or rather that others have to make sacrifices, especially the popular classes, so that one day you can grow up. In fact, what they are trying to convey is that they believe - through faith - that there is a sort of drip effect that allows when growth is achieved to come to society as a whole. In the end, the undersides will eat the crumbs that fall off the table of those above. This is the drip effect - I insist -, more perceived through faith than rigor. In fact, they have always behaved like the ancient Mayas, demanding sacrifices so that it would rain without any causal link that would explain how it carried one thing to the other. Therefore, when we try to be rigorous and see what model of society they are posing, we need to know what is happening in our society. Comrade Alberto Montero has put forward some data, known to all and very relevant, related to the situation and I will complement them with others that you, Mr Montoro, also know. In our country there are 1.3 million people living in households without any income, without any income; and 20 million people who cannot even afford one week of vacation a year. We just spent Holy Week and 20 million people have not been able to go on vacation. And there's another 20 million people who can't afford unforeseen expenses. I don't know if you, Mr. Montoro, have ever had your TV, fridge or computer broken at home. There are 20 million people who, if that contingency occurred, would not be able to face the expense. I could go on with many more data, but you know them, so I'm not going to insist. Unlike you, I think that in a budget debate we have to talk more about macro issues than figure by figure. - You know the economists educated us to torture statistics. You know that, I know that, and a lot more people, so it doesn't make much sense. It does make sense to review these figures to realize that they are not only dramatic, but also similar or even worse than those of 2011. And that expresses a question, where is the drip effect? Where is the benefit of the propaganda of economic growth for all this citizenship, for the popular classes of our country? How is it possible that this happens, that there is a growing part of our stagnant population that does not receive such economic growth? Mr Montoro, we believe that it is not just a matter of denouncing in the budgets the EUR 5 billion of cuts that implies the ceiling of expenditure, a ceiling of expenditure that was, in fact, approved in a package of measures by Citizens, Socialist Party and People's Party. By the way, I'll make a brief parenthesis. Members of the Socialist Party, you do not want the motion of censure, you do not want to explore the possibility of an alternative government, you have agreed eight real fundamental decrees for the policy of the People's Party to move forward, you were responsible for Mariano Rajoy being president and you have said, at the same time as you were doing all that, that you are going to be ruthless with the People's Party. The truth is that I don't know what level of fear the People's Party has to have, but I am going to tell you one thing: I think what you have said today sounds good, but what we have to tell you is that you turn words into deeds, because if we don't make the mistake of saying in campaign that you don't and then turn it into a yes. [[Applauds]] And this ceiling of spending that has brought us here is precisely what expresses the model of society to which it leads, a model of society in which economic growth and microeconomic misery are possible. Macroeconomic Bonanza, microeconomic misery, because there are many ways to grow and these budgets bet on the same path that the People's Party has always considered: to compete on the path of low wages. That is the model of society that the People's Party is betting on, replacing a growth model based on private indebtedness - as you said this morning - with a low-wage model. It is very easy, the syllogism - to say the least - that you have used is: we charge less, we sell more, we create more jobs. This is what you have reduced our country's economy to, but you forget to include that one of the auxiliary assumptions implicit in your argument is that prices have to fall. And you know what happened? That wages go down and prices don't go down. And what happens when that happens? That what is increased - and this is pure accounting - are the profit margins of large companies. That means and that explains very well how the weight of wages in income has been systematically decreasing for not years but decades in our country, for betting on a truly terrible growth model where labor reforms are the key. Labour reforms, in plural, that of 2012 and 2010, because they follow the same qualitative path of reducing the power of trade unions, the power of collective bargaining. Mr Montoro, explain to society how it is possible that in a sector, for example, that of the hospitality industry, the housekeepers are charging a few euros per hour as a result of outsourcing in a sector in which, precisely, you go out to say that it is one of the buoyant sectors of the economy and that you are expressing the way of the People's Party for Spain. It is true that tourism has been a fundamental engine of our economy - no one will doubt it - but explain to us then if that sector has not been in crisis how it is possible that those who used to work for more or less decent wages - always critical but more or less decent - now have to be with outsourced companies charging a couple of euros per hour. This is the way of labor reforms, it is the way of their General State Budgets. I believe that this policy - that of lowering wages to grow economically - explains that there is a part of the population that is being benefited: the large companies, the companies that have benefited from privatization, the companies that benefit from outsourcing. Finally, a series of networks of business intermediaries that benefit from all these processes - labor reforms, State General Budgets that involve cuts, etc. - but at the same time lead not only to a brutal increase in inequality, but also to the generation of huge contradictions, because it is not possible to sustain a country in which the majority of the population is left behind, is left out, is excluded, is marginalized from macroeconomic indices. That is why I do not think it is good news to say that economic growth is high. No, because that's a figure and we have to bond with people and, therefore, as there are many different ways to grow you have to go into the detail of those numbers. That is why we and we, from our Group in the United States, have said that you do not really represent the Spanish people, and you take it wrong; I understand it, it is legitimate, but we have founded it. It turns out that by analyzing these General State Budgets, these cuts, those labor reforms, those privatizations - rather than privatizations we are going to say expolies, as in the case of AENA - those cuts in fundamental items such as that of macho violence, in health, in education, those increments of Mr Trump so that defense goes also through the clouds, that is, by studying the budgets in a comprehensive way, it is concluded that you are benefiting only a few people in our country, and the concrete reflection is operations that you are very proud of, although sometimes it costs you so much to say, as the fiscal amnesty. Tax amnesty is the clearest summary of how this government, which is the same government in the end, protects criminals, introduces a bias and a very perverse moral incentive that is: you can delinquent, but if you are a millionaire we can forgive you, while if you are a person with few resources, the law will fall brutally upon you. [[Applauds]] Mr Montoro, these are the sixth budgets I have the opportunity to discuss with you. In all budgets we have maintained consistency, and in this one it will be no less. When you have raised taxes, unwillingly, and you have, moreover, raised direct taxes, we have recognized you, unlike other groups, and you have come to recognize that fact. Well, now we have to say, Mr Montoro, that it seems like an anti-system, if by system we understand Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution, which says that the tax system must be progressive, because its continuous tax reforms together lead to a system in which direct taxes lose weight and gain it by indirect taxes. You know, Mr Montoro, that your family pays the same indirect taxes as the family of a great Spanish magnate and that the family of any unemployed person in our country. That's why they're more unfair, and you're together raising those indirect taxes and reducing the weight of the directs; ultimately, you're making our system more regressive, you're going against the spirit and the letter of the Spanish Constitution itself in which they're parapeted so many times. [[Applauds]] That's why you're anti-systems. You also like to shorten finances to implement your own policy, which you offer as a neutral technocratic policy, when it is profoundly ideological. That is why they amended the Constitution, in its article 135, and included the Budget Stability Act, created a Fiscal Accountability Authority... They have implemented a number of laws to shorten public finances. All right, it is your choice although we are against it, but what makes no sense, Mr Montoro, is that at the same time in this package of budgets you continue to keep a systematic blockade on entities and municipalities that have surpluses, that are reducing public debt - which also generated parties like the People's Party - but that you cannot use surpluses. And don't tell me this was a mistake, because this was a political decision of the People's Party. All this is absolutely incomprehensible, if we see it from below. If we see it from the point of view of those great fortunes and big companies that take advantage of this opportunity to promote privatization in the municipalities that will be their business focus, the policy of the People's Party is much better understood. I'm done. Mr. Montoro, with that message you have made an intellectual retreat on ideology. Ideology is a belief system that is sometimes explicit and sometimes implicit. Everyone has ideology, even you. The problem is that those who are not aware that they have ideology become even more dangerous, because they believe above good and evil. What we do is we see the model of society, the ideology that these budgets convey. We're worried about that, much more than any number, because we don't want a country where people have to jump out of the woods collecting wages to get to the weekend. We do not want that, we do not want that kind of model of society, and these budgets are the way, step by step, towards that model which, in fact, already exists for a part of the population. Mr. Montoro, when you look at the budgets, do it from below the table because from there - and you can try to do it literally - you see reality in a very different way than when you're sitting or when you're up. Try to do so to see that budgets are absolutely unfair to the majority of this country, which is the majority we want to represent because we are that part of the country. Thank you so much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u26	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mena Arca also has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u27	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to everyone and everyone. Mr Montoro, this morning you have sung to us between a Portuguese fado, when you were talking about the economic deficit, and some bulerías, when you were talking about recovery and economic growth, because the budgets that you present to us today are precisely that, a fado, a song to resignation. Amália Rodrigues said that a fairy is all that is said and all that cannot be said. What you tell us are lies, literally lies, because you compare what was executed in 2016 with what was budgeted for 2017 and you foresee some collection figures that, if fulfilled, would be the highest tax revenues in our entire history. They sell a recovery so weak that it dissolves in their hands as a sugar, because every year of the People's Party government means five years of retreat for the welfare state and, on top of that, Mr Montoro, you have the shame of coming here to say that we have gone out of our way. Here, Mr Montoro, it has been you who have left for drinks, but with the money of all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Those are, Mr. Montoro, the ones who have gone out of their way. But, above all, these budgets are not what they say: the existence of the triple alliance is seen, they confirm that the cuts were not punctual policies, but an excuse to modify the whole system and strip their double speech before the orders of Brussels. They obey in the cuts that mistreat the popular classes, but disobey in the matter of asylum. It's you guys that classy. Moreover, they take advantage of the budgets, with the additional twenty-seven, again invading the municipal autonomy to prevent the processes of remunicipalization of the municipalities of change. You are afraid because when we govern we show that things can be done otherwise for the benefit of the common good. There is an alternative and my colleagues, Alberto Garzón and Alberto Montero have demonstrated it today: we propose to increase the income, because it can, in more than 7.5 billion euros and we propose the reduction of the deficit with 7.4 billion euros that we could allocate to stop the hemorrhage that you provoke in the welfare state, to dedicate it to promote the guaranteed income of citizenship; a real state housing plan that preserves the housing as a right and not its cuts of 40% since 2012; a national energy transition plan, the revaluation of 1.25% and the guarantee of occupation for people who have been unemployed for a long time. And for Catalonia, gentlemen of the People's Party, stop selling smoke. Our democracy and our referendum have no price and less the price of their false promises. We will look after the Mediterranean corridor, we will also see to it that the budget lines that you are promising every year are implemented. I ask you, Mr Montoro, to go up to a nearby train in Catalonia, to try to get by train to the Terres de l'Ebre, to support one day yes and another also a funeral in Montcada i Reixac or in Sant Feliu de Llobregat because of not burying the train track, to play life in the N-340, to see every day the undermining of the shame of La Estasio de La Sagrera, to suffer the chaos of the Prat airport, to get caught up in the institutionalized scam of the Castor, to try to speak in Catalan in a court or to use the network of roads in Tarragona or Girona while paying astronomical tolls. And as all this goes on, breakfast every day with the newspaper covers talking about Bárcenas, Rato, Ignacio González, Esperanza Aguirre, the messages of Minister Catalá or the summons as President Rajoy's witness.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u28	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u29	I'm done, President. And it is that, Mr Montoro and gentlemen of the People's Group, if you were to rule with the same professionalism with which many of your party partners have stolen our public money, Spain would today be one of the first economies in the world. [[Applauds]] So, gentlemen of the People's Group, the best thing you could do for shame and dignity is to leave, resign. As you will not, together with all citizens we will be presenting a motion of censure, because corruption is cured with more democracy and the motion of censure, Socialists, is a democratic weapon that the people have, not that they have a parliamentary group, that has the people, to revoke one of the most corrupt governments in the whole European Union. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u30	Thank you very much. Finally, for the same group, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u31	Mr Montoro, these are the budgets of the same failed policies, they are the budgets of the cuts thanks to the allies of Citizens and the PSOE, more than EUR 5 billion; they are the budgets of corruption, they are the budgets at the service of your friends. But the worst thing, Mr Montoro, is that these budgets do not work for two things: to care for people and to change towards the productive model that our country needs. I'll give you an example, Mr. Montoro. You, in the economic report that assists this budget 'presumes' to have nothing more and nothing less than 2.4 million unemployed people and 'presumes' to cut the unemployment benefit. Mr Montoro, it is a shame that you in this budget cut EUR 13 billion for unemployment in this country; you say you do it because unemployment is falling. Mr Montoro, look at this data, the coverage rate for 2010, almost 80%, do you know what the coverage rate of the unemployed and unemployed in this country is today? [[Show a document]] That one in two do not have social protection. Do you know what you're doing with these budgets, Mr. Montoro? Let those who need it the most throw away. Do you know what you're doing? That the stops and stops of this country pay with their cuts nothing more and nothing less than the rescue to their friends, to the bank. Mr Montoro, it reduces the share of industry, it reduces the share of energy. What do you want, Mr Montoro, for our sons and daughters to be the waiters and waitresses of Europe, a very worthy profession? We want to be researchers in Europe. [[Applauds]] And Mr. Rajoy, very quickly; very quickly. I am Galician, you too, do you know at what price our farmers sell milk in Galicia? At 18 cents, Mr. Rajoy. Don't you feel ashamed? Mr. Rajoy, you're from Pontevedra, I'm from Ferrol, do you know what I have to do to travel by train? Fly, because there is no railway line from my home to, for example, Vigo. Mr Rajoy, do you know what would happen in Galicia if we had a new Prestige with these budgets? That exactly the same thing would happen to us, we would suffer, as you said, pins of plasticin, because we continue with the same matches. And finally, Mr. Rajoy, do you know how the Galician laughs are? Do you know how much your head of finance policy says for the Galician Rías in Coruña, for example, where they need 48 million euros? One million euros. Mr. Rajoy, this is a shame. I'm done because I don't have time. Mr Rajoy, if you had dignity, in a normal country today what you would do would be to resign as the head of a corrupt plot. [[Applauds]] And, Mr Montoro, if you had dignity, what you would do would also be to resign by submitting budgets to the service of corruption. And Mr. Hernando, you're not...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u32	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u33	...it's a shame that with your intervention...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u34	Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u35	...do not support the motion of censure that our group proposes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u36	Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u37	Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u38	Mrs. Díaz, you should have finished. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the spokespersons, the representatives of the Puedos-En Comú Pompo-En Marea Group, have referred to non-existent budgets. After listening to them, I don't think they've been read; I have no more answer than this. First, with the figures in hand, are these the most social budgets in history? What does this mean? That in the proportion of expenditure programmed by these budgets social expenditure occupies the highest percentage? Yes or no? Answer me to this. Come on up and talk... [[Laughter]] I don't know what they're talking about. I lost myself a long time ago. We're talking about something that doesn't exist. They say: You are the representatives of the politics of not knowing what, of the politics of the other, of the beyond and of the contrary... That's why we've been ruling for so long, that's probably why. I don't really understand. Mr Hernando referred to the economic miracle of the former People's Party government. Let us see, Your Honor, who went up to this rostrum to explain and defend the State's general budgets for the year 2004 was a servant. Wasn't it me? No, it was someone else who came up; I didn't come up here. That policy was making this country feel very good. Is it not true that in 1996 the per capita income in Spain was EUR 14 000 and today that income is around 26,000? Isn't that right? We have made progress, as I said this morning. Is it true or not? You come up here and discover life itself; not politics, life itself. They don't care. How will they recognise that there are social budgets? But it's the numbers! In any case, I admit the criticisms of the other: they are no longer spent on investment - as I said before -; they are no longer spent on what they want, because we are giving social priority, and you go up to criticize that. What do you represent? What kind of policy do you formulate? That policy they were talking about? Don't you like this to be a service country? No, you like five-year plans. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] That's what you'd like: we're going to produce so many tons of steel, so much metallurgy and we want all cars to be the same. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] That's what you'd like, ladies and gentlemen. That's his model, the one in his head that fell. Do you know when the Berlin Wall fell? [[Laughter]] Do you remember? [[Laughter]] There was the circumstance that I was there a few months earlier; it's the only time I've been to Berlin. This brought down a whole political philosophy, that of communism, that of real socialism. [[Laughter]] You shake it, but there's an interesting mix. [[Applauds]] That's what distils your ideas. You come up here and say, "This country has never met such politicians. Not bad, because this country has made a lot of progress, but a lot. This is a great country, a country that does it by its people, and people are all of us. Mr. Garzón said: 'Have you ever been spoiled by TV?' Have you ever been arrested for not paying TV deadlines? This is a country we have made among all. I'm asking you that. This of the TV deadlines doesn't even know what it is, when we paid the TV deadlines with letters that came out of the effort and sacrifice of the Spanish families. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] You haven't lived in this country. That's right, Mrs. Bescansa. Or have we not lived in this country? Aren't we this country? Aren't we representing this country? Have the citizens not voted for us to be in this government? You guys are coming to give us some grades. Of course they are a political group - a political party is something else -, a political group that has a great social representation, of course they have it. [[Laughter]] Who's telling you otherwise? Of course they do. But you are not the only ones in this House, nor does the political life of Spain begin with you. What are they representing and what are they projecting? You come to reinvent the country, before you there was no democracy in Spain, institutions don't work... The institutions work in our country, that is what has made this country progress, that this country is a member of Europe, a respected member of Europe, in that European construction, which is where the obligation of budgetary stability comes from. Can we build Europe in another way? [[Mrs. Villalobos Talero: Like Venezuela.-Laughter.-Applause]] We are building political integration in Europe. Are you in favour of or against such political integration? Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution makes it necessary to incorporate into the Constitution the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. That's exactly what he does. Between you and look at it in our Constitution. That is exactly what it does, incorporating the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. That's why they're recurring targets. As stability goals are being set in that treaty, they are being incorporated into our Magna Charter. Is that what you're against? Is that what they say they impose on us? That imposes on us who? You believe in the conspiracy theories of history, you're in Game of Thrones and that kind of thing, that I also have a lot of entertainment, I also like those series very much, I have a good time. [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] But power is not that, power has nothing to do with it. You are in conspiracy theories, as I tell you, where institutions are possessed by strange beings rather than by normal people who offer in them the best of themselves. [[Laughter]] They will be wrong or not, but they exercise these functions from the absolute normality, as is Spain. You make - and you make it clear - a song of resignation. Is a budget that is promoting the creation of more than 500,000 jobs a year to resign? Everyone can qualify it in the most appropriate way, but I'd say it's rather the opposite. Have we come to a completely inclusive economic recovery in social terms? No, I am saying since this morning, that we are missing a route, that this route is typical of our country's own economic evolution, that employment has to improve, it is not only a question of quantity, it is also of quality. That's why we bring a budget with a public offer of employment. Do you oppose the public offer of employment? Yes or no? I haven't heard anything, this is not what we're talking about. Are you opposed to the autonomous communities receiving this extra €44 billion and dedicating them to social policies? Yes or no? They don't talk about it, they go up to this rostrum and each one lets go of his arena, so to speak, the others are jealous of him, they stand up: how good you've been!, you've been great!, great!, you've told him what you had to say!... [[Laughter]] Please focus on the issue, why do you not agree with this budget. Why is it presented by a People's Party government? Is that it, in short? That's the summary of the summary. You don't care, as if we're bringing the hunting law, you're going to be against it, completely against anything that is the initiative of a People's Party government. [[Laughter]] Well, if it's a position, it's very legitimate in democracy, but it's not based on any of the criticisms I've heard here, from triple A... that of triple A, what is it?, another series? Or someone who meets somewhere hidden from some mountain to plot a conspiracy? [[Laughter and applause]] This kind of language is magnificent. Mr Garzón, miguitas are people's welfare, that's what you're guaranteeing these budgets, with that EUR 307 billion spent on social policies. They may seem few to you, but do not underestimate them. Behind that there are fourteen million people who receive a public benefit; behind that there are millions of people who send their children to public school to receive an education that opens them to equal opportunities; behind that is the right to life in terms of financing public health. And does that seem to you that there is really nothing worth bringing to this House? Is that what you're against? Of what? I just didn't know what they were talking about about the social model, the model I don't know what, that it goes I don't know who and the one beyond. But if we're talking about EUR 307 billion in these social policies, don't you think that goes to people? They may go up to stage that is not yet enough, but do not criticize the opposite, do not criticize the cuts - as they call it - of 2016 that did not affect social policies. Go up to the rostrum and tell me a social policy that we reduced in 2016; go up to tell me what that social policy is. [[Rumors]] We have not reduced social policy, we have renounced other expenditure. Moreover, I have no doubt that you are against budgetary stability. That's philosophy. You are in favour of the public deficit, which someone will pay; no, it is not paid by someone, it is paid by the unemployed, it is paid by those who do not have the opportunity to access those jobs; those are those who pay that public deficit, because the bill will pass in economic terms that public deficit. [[Applauds]] That is why you govern important institutions in Spain, and you have said this very clearly: you are fulfilling budgetary stability because there is an organic law of budgetary stability in Spain; if you had not - you have made it clear - it is broad Castile. [[Laughter]] That's his political project. [[Protests]] His political project is to reach the institutions and break the institutions. That's his political project. [[Protests]] That's what we've had experience of. Then the salaries of these staff members and the staff members who provide these social services must be paid, and these social services must be paid in the form of an income. Or where do you think that rent comes from? From the taxes that are being generated. Therefore, as you are a threat to budgetary stability, this has become evident in the debate in a very clear way. [[Applauds]] I would also like to explain to you that thanks to the expenditure rule contained in it, which is a derivative of European governance included in the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability, today we have thousands of healthy, balanced administrations in Spain. That rule of spending does not say that you can't spend more than the previous year, what limits is the increase in spending, that's what you do. But to you who limit the increase in spending puts you out of your minds in terms of law. [[Rumors]] Do you want to tell me how it fits into a European project and into economic integration, into an economic and monetary union - do you imagine? - that each country did not abide by a rule of governance? What would be the place? We have already seen that it has happened in certain countries, that they have had to be intervened. The intervention means that this House has to provide the financial resources, which the Spaniards put in. There was a vice president of the government who came to say from this rostrum that actually financing Greece's first bailout would be a good deal for the Spaniards because they were going to return it to us with interest. That was said in this House. When these European governance rules are breached, we are really causing a serious deterioration in the European integration project. That's what you, in that summary you do - certainly of interesting content - say it's ideology. Of course they have an ideology, a rather anti-Europe ideology. If Mr. Iglesias has gone in the French elections to support a candidate who was proclaiming from the left the departure of France from Europe! Or isn't that it? Didn't you do that? [[Mr Errejón Galvan utters words that are not perceived]] [[Rumors]] We haven't heard from the others. [[Rumors]] No, I wasn't doing that, I wasn't threatening the European project. What you don't have are ideas; ideology yes, that which is summed up in an anti-system ideology, antiglobalization, anti, anti, anti. [[Rumors.-Protests]] One is born to be anti, but being anti one day will...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u40	One second, Mr. Montoro. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not draw your attention one by one, but what they say is perfectly heard from here. So, please, I beg you all to remain silent, to listen to the speaker, and to respect all speakers. Go ahead, Mr. Montoro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u41	Thank you. Good thing I don't hear what they say. [[Laughter]] Me to my thing.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u42	It's hard to hear and talk, Mr. Montoro, but I just listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u43	Thank you, President. If I can imagine. [[Laughter]] He said that of course they have an ideology, many ideas do not have, but their ideology is anti. You have come to this Parliament to be anti, anti everything, and you have your own ideological struggle - there you are - very legitimate, of course, but do not deny the reality. There is no macro bonanza - as they have called it - and a micro misery. That's impossible. Macros are made by people when they consume, when they invest, when they save. Of course, we still have - as I have already said - a problem arising from that lack of employment, because for Spain to be included in those relatively high poverty indicators is a problem. Of course it is, the Government recognizes it that way. That is why we insist that we need to grow and create jobs, that is why we insist that we need all administrations to have social integration programmes, that is why, so that we can really say that we are increasingly experiencing a more inclusive economic recovery. But there's no such thing as the macro that goes very well and the micro that doesn't. That does not exist, what does exist is that we have to have an increasingly inclusive society, a society with greater equality of opportunity. That is the employment society, that is the society that creates equal opportunities for all, that is the society where institutions work, where illegality is pursued and where really no one, no economic or political power can have hegemony over the law. That's democracy, that's the rule of law. That is why I invite your ladies and gentlemen, who are here for the first time in a debate on the General Budgets of the State, to reflect, to reconsider and to use their statements, their assertions, with ownership. It is not a question of redistributing time among more speakers, but of waiting for someone to say something I am not saying that someone is saying something with wisdom and content, which is perhaps asking a lot, but someone is going up and saying something that is not what we had already heard in Europe in the 1960s. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] The Berlin Wall fell in the late 1980s; that wall meant the triumph of freedom, democracy and respect. [[Applauds]] The fall of that wall made it possible to advance European integration. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u44	Mr Montero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u45	Mr. Montoro, I really didn't need to take that much time to say everything you've said. I thought that at least I was going to defend their budgets, but I see that no, I see that it still does not respond to an element that is fundamental, that it is essentially up to you and on which it still does not say anything at all, that it is the fiscal gap that separates us from Europe and that would allow this country to have other budgets, another project and another horizon that is different from that which you put us. He focuses exclusively on spending and forgets something that is his sole responsibility: income. So stop dating back to the Berlin Wall, to May of the sixties or to Latin America and center your speech where you have to: on income. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, if social spending has been rising in this country, it has been essentially because there is an automatic mechanism of recognition of law which is public pensions. And as that expenditure has been rising and you are concerned, it has articulated mechanisms to contain the growth of public pension expenditure. Macroeconomic improvement translates into microeconomic terms in which pensioners in this country are going to lose purchasing power next year. Don't tell me no because then we're going to have to question even your basic knowledge of arithmetic. On the question of employment, stop repeating the figures on the number of jobs, stop repeating them because they have no credibility at all. I give you another figure: the total number of effective weekly hours worked in this country in the first quarter of 2011 was 634 918; the number of effective weekly hours worked in the first quarter of 2017 is 609 969, almost 25 000 hours of work less for 500,000 more jobs. They're spreading misery! And about that they articulate a speech. [[Applauds]] They are dividing and segmenting employment; precariousing employment. In January 2012 the average duration of a contract was 66 days; in March 2017 it is 54 days. Mr Montoro, the contracts of less than seven days in January 2012 were 20%; in March 2017, 25%. Look at the tablet, look for the data and there he's going to find them, they're not mine, they're everyone's, they're from the National Institute of Statistics. Madam President, do I still have time or is it shared?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u46	Your Honor, you have the time you have asked for, and you would speak alone.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u47	No, no, I was asking you...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u48	Your Honor, the services of the House have informed the Presidency that Mr Montero, who I believe is you, would speak exclusively. If you want to stop speaking, there is one minute and thirty-four seconds left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u49	Follow me, don't worry. [[Laughter]] Macro bonanza and micro misery. Read the latest data from the living conditions survey: increase in average wages in this country and the poverty rate remains unabated. How do you explain that, Mr. Montoro? Can you explain to me how that situation is explained? Equal opportunities. It has - I don't know how to say it -, it has to come to talk about equal opportunities the day we know that the level of spending on education in this country is the lowest in the last twenty years. And does it talk about equal opportunities when they are cutting spending on education, which is the main source of generating equal opportunities? Would you like to know what social items had been cut in those non-availability agreements? Such non-availability agreements under other budget items other than social funds would have allowed such $5 billion, for example, to be allocated to that fifty per cent of the unemployed who do not have any benefits. That's called opportunity cost, Mr. Montoro. If you stop spending, obviously you don't spend. But if you see that you can stop spending there, spend it where you need it, and where we need it right now is in a plan to guarantee the incomes and living conditions of the unemployed in this country who do not receive any kind of remuneration. Why do we not agree with the general state budgets, Mr Montoro? It is not because you present them or because you have a special aversion, which is not the case, and it is not because you present them your party - which should also be discussed if it is a political party - but basically because it is not the budgets that this country needs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u50	I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u51	Thank you, Madam President. The creation of jobs has made it possible to recover in Spain 72% of the indefinite employment destroyed by the crisis. During the crisis, 3,600,000 jobs were destroyed, of which 944,000 were indefinite jobs. 683 000 indefinite jobs have been recovered in Spain, 72%. And only 33% of temporary employment has been recovered. So, that's the way it is. That's what's marking our job ID. That is the progress that is being made in our country. Retrieved job creation is mainly in the private sector. Almost 96.4% have been created by businesses and self-employed people in our country. On the other hand, denying this is denying the clearest evidence and, in addition, of each job already existing in Spain more than three quarters are indefinite jobs. Therefore, that is so, within what is a service economy where really also the temporality in Spain tends to be superior to that of other economies that have less services and that from there can cover higher rates of temporality. But that's what's happening. Therefore, to say that no employment is being created and no indefinite employment is being created is to deny the evidence of the most fundamental statistics as his lordship has just done. Ask yourself whether your political formation is interested in the reality of job creation. That's what you have to ask yourself, don't deny it. But how do you deny it? You can say that you want a better job, but you cannot deny that this is actually happening and that the job that is being created is of an indefinite nature. Just as it has done, it has risen, the same day it says, that it is published that spending on education is the lowest in history. But where is that? I've read it! What is the total expenditure on education scheduled for 2017? That's 46 billion euros. But what are you comparing yourself to? With the story? If that is a higher expense than before the 2007 crisis. So, what are you talking about? I believe that you paint a reality that you understand is politically appropriate to you, but you do not have a minimally serious debate on the State's general budgets. I insist, do you support the social nature of these budgets? No, they deny it. [[Laughter]] It is all right and I accept it from an ideological bias, but you are not interested in the debate on social reality, how we can measure it in our country in European terms. [[Mr. Montero Soler makes negative signs]] Taxation. This year we will have the largest collection in the history of Spain. We had never collected so much with that gross domestic product that it is going to be that of the pre-crisis and, therefore, that is with the collection. You say we'd have to collect a lot more. Of course, I know how, you say, by raising taxes. Do you know why they said that in the past year there has been so little increase in collection in relation to economic activity? Because we've lowered taxes! We left it, I talked about it this morning, at EUR 12 300 million. More than €8 billion we have lowered the personal income tax between 2015 and 2016. You're against us lowering taxes, but not the rich, as they say, and that's settled. And then they don't talk about ideology! But if I have said it before and told the representatives of the other political groups! We have lowered it to workers in this country, we have lowered it to those who have less income in this country, who are paying almost 25% less IRPF than in 2011. That is the reality and that reality is not for you politically. I understand, life itself, but don't come up here now to defend statistics that I don't even know where they come from. Read the content of the General State Budgets, the stability programme that we have just sent to Brussels to see the programming and forecasting of total spending in our country and acknowledge - and acknowledge - that there are governments that can match social sensitivity with the fundamental elements that drive economic recovery and job creation. Do you know what that element is, all those factors? The confidence that inspires a country, and that that trust is present and goes beyond that, is everyone's responsibility. It should be their responsibility as political formation, regardless of their ideology. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are the X-ray of the failure of a government, but also of the Spanish oligarchy. I am talking about the failure of José María Entrecanales, Acciona; of Florentino Pérez, ACS; of the Botín family, Banco de Santander; of Francisco González, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria; of Rafael del Pino, Ferrovial; of Ignacio Sánchez, Iberdrola; of Isidro Fainé, La Caixa; of Antonio Brufau, Repsol; of César Alierta, Telefónica and others, unable to successfully adapt to globalization, a globalization that produced a new global division of labour, which benefited countries with high technology, but also countries with low labour, fiscal and environmental costs. The Kingdom of Spain then remained in nobody's land and in order to make a society economically viable, to create employment, to avoid so much suffering, it is important not to remain in nobody's land, but in the land of those who have been able to be competitive in the world of global capitalism. This requires three conditions. First, think of the common good. Secondly, to have as a moral principle the idea of the return of wealth to society through fair taxation and contributions to social security through work. And third - this condition is fundamental - an ethics of respect for the public and people. This is not the Spanish scenario because it is dominated by a financial and speculative oligarchy, without a productive and technological dimension and above all deeply greedy, an oligarchy resulting from a privatization, the privatization of large companies, made with criteria of friendliness, political clientelism. Wow, the business embryo on the Bernabéu stage and you, Mr. Montoro, knows what I'm talking about because I was there. You were there at the time of the birth of this new Spanish oligarchy; in fact, you were State Secretary of Economy of the Aznar Government, when Campsa became in Repsol, Telefónica in Movistar, the Banco Exterior de España in Banco Bilbao Bizcaya Argentaria and the great builders reached their current dimensions, in the same way that the electric companies merged in Endesa. All in command: Aznar-Rato, Aznar-Rato, Mouse, Mouse and you. Corruption. And although our model, the model of the Republicans, which we will continue to build the Republic of Catalonia, is that of the countries of northern Europe, it is of interest - they will not deny it - to make a small discharge, a small journey, a certain parallelism between two very similar realities, although very different and very far geographically, such as the Spanish State and Korea. Look at the similarities. In 1988 Seoul Olympic Games, four years later Barcelona Olympic Games. The two States, the Republic of Korea and the Spanish State, had experienced similar pasts: civil war, dictatorship and military regimes that built large public industrial groups. See, at the time of privatization in 1989, Spanish GDP was 70% higher than Korean GDP. Twenty-five years after globalization Korean GDP is higher than Spanish GDP and in Korea they present a list of high-tech companies, companies that export to all the world - Hyundai, Kia, Samsung, etc. -. Compare the reality of Korea with the Spanish oligarchy. In this list of companies that I have read to you at the beginning, the flower and cream of Spanish capitalism, there is not a single company comparable to Google, Alstom, Sony, Siemens, etc. and a ridiculous number of patents. That is, no technological or productive leap. That is so, paradoxically converted into a sect - not to say another ugly word - a real sect against competitiveness. As a result, Spanish banks impose the highest credit in the euro area; their electricity, the highest rates in Europe and their builders act as a cartel to distribute the major government contracts. [[Applauds]] Corruption. Corruption. These budgets, Mr Montoro, are the budgets of these people, which you serve. I say that they are an X-ray budget of a great lie because the cuts - their cuts, for years now - are not only the result of a lack of economic resources, they are also the result of a political option that bets on cutting rights to the popular classes rather than making the rich pay. The rich, Mr. Montoro, yes, don't laugh. The rich are the ones who filled and filled Mr. Barcenas' envelopes. [[Applauds]] These, the ones I mentioned before. Moreover, it is those who decide when to build a highway, when to build a gas tank, where, under what terms and conditions and also make sure - see what capitalists - that in case of losses the state can come to their aid. In their budgets, there are items to rescue Madrid's radial highways. Companies that are also the ones that have them. And in the face of this lie - that of their budgets - a truth is raised. What's the truth? After screwing the lives of millions of people - and they forgive the expression, but it comes out of my guts - after screwing the lives of millions of people by sending them to unemployment, disposing of them on account and with the excuse of debt, it turns out that this debt already reaches a billion with be of Bárcenas. So all of this, you should recognize, hides great puffs of the management of the Spanish governments - of the right and unfortunately also some puffs of the Spanish Social Democracy -. For example, 62 billion bail-outs to banks, a large part of which will not be returned; in fact, not even 10 % has yet been returned. There are 24 billion Adif-Renfe debt to pay high speed anywhere, 30 billion debt to the oligopoly of the five major electricity companies, which so generously care for the former ministers of the Spanish governments, companies that only in the last fifteen years - attention to the data - have obtained a profit of 45 billion, illegitimate electricity debt, because in fact it has been destined to pay profits from an oligopoly. Of course, Mr Montoro, by obviating the 40 billion energy that Spain imports each year, the 800 million in pollution emission bonds generated by fossil energy and by obviating that the savings caused by renewable energy are greater than the investment required for its deployment. Despite this, budget after budget, you have been ruining 55,000 families who, encouraged by the state, had been betting on renewables. And everything for what? All to satisfy the appetite of the capital accumulation of the five large companies, which sell, I repeat, electricity, energy at impossible prices, putting in check the economic viability of the Spanish State. Corruption; this is also corruption. Even though you come to us here with petulant airs, because you are very campechano; I would even say... Well, I'm not saying. May Satan free us from the campesinos, who here we have had some! You are very campechano, certainly with a funny look, for you come up here and say that it is not true or that we do not deserve this rather chilly look: I am the protagonist of the fourth triumphal year of the highest GDP growth in the European Union. [[Laughter]] Because deep down, you're getting your chest out of this, and I think it's kind of ridiculous. [[Applauds]] I don't know if you should even be so extroverted and a little cunning - intercomilado, without having the will to offend - because your budget, apart from being an X-ray of the lie, is also an X-ray of the failure. Or are the 10 billion pension deficits, which reveal their inability to create quality jobs, not a failure? Because you will not deny me that you have universalized low wages. There had never been so many part-time contracts in the Spanish State, there had never been so much precariousness and there had never been so many self-employed people living in poverty, that is, you, on the one hand, thanks to your criminal - among you, of course, again - labor reform, what you have done is to create a new social class, a new class of employees that we could call the precarious, which in addition to their budgetary policies they intend to consolidate. I wonder: if it is true that employment has increased and unemployment benefits have fallen, wouldn't it be time to make a big investment in active employment policies? Because what I think no one will be able to deny is that there is no future if workers are not guaranteed the necessary preparation to find work, if they have been lost, or if they have been found. I think it is time to give impetus to active employment policies. You, in addition to being the executing arm of the birth of this precarious, are also responsible for universalizing, extending, this social class, that of the autonomous, which add to their exploitation the lack of rights. And I know what I'm talking about because already in 2004 Esquerra Republicana presented initiatives in this Congress of Deputies to try to assimilate the rights of self-employed workers to the rest of the workers, and it was certainly approved, but the People's Party and the Socialist Party always vetoed the creation of the paper on this issue. And one thing, Mr Montoro, leads to the other: popular classes punished by a taxation of the oligarchy's servants. What you do is nothing more than punish the income of work, which is the result of the efforts of the workers and, on the other hand, to benefit the income of capital, beyond the shameful debate of how and how you resist ending, for example, the sicavs so that those who have more tax less. In short, Mr Montoro, with his formula that he has been applying for years, which is nothing other than that of those who suffer the cuts paying both the bill of the crisis, the dumbest makes watches; with this formula, the dumbest makes watches, because yours has no merit: coming out of the crisis, Mr Montoro, sacrificing generations, sacrificing generations, besides being deeply unjust is very reactionary and, in fact, it is of an enormous classism, retrotracts us to stages of history in which you satrap, to solve political problems or economic crises, sent the peasants and the workers to be cannonmeat in the war conflicts. Getting out of the crisis by sacrificing millions of people, what credit does it have? You tell us what you deserve. And for a taste of its classicism, a button: increase in social spending, 1.7%, increase in the military budget, 30%. They will spend on special projects of modernization of the army close to 2 billion, that is, what is deemed necessary to guarantee the subjective right to receive a benefit, Law of dependency, if the person does not have sufficient personal autonomy; it will not be possible to combat the child poverty that already reaches 30% or, for example, it will not be possible to respond to the thousands of refugees that we should receive - and this does not denounce Republican Esquerra, denounce Amnesty International -. It is only for those three cases that I have reminded you now that the presentation of this amendment to the whole is justified, but it is that, moreover, you have never had the honesty - quotes again - enough to speak clearly. Go up here and say: Social cuts are also made to pay the 30 billion military debt. Let it be known, let everyone know: they steal life, they steal the future from the new generations to pay for the weapons projects initiated by a Pedro Morenés, do they remember?, Secretary of State of Defense of a government of Aznar, who was then Minister of Defense and, previously, shareholder of a company in the field of the manufacture of armaments. That is how it works, ladies and gentlemen, that people know it, that is how legal corruption works, that is the corruption of the revolving doors that we pay in the form of debt and that we pay in the form of cuts in these budgets and in the previous ones. Moreover, I also think it is necessary to say - with all due respect, but to the face - that your budget is not only an X-ray of the lie, of the failure, but also of the stupidity; of the stupidity of the new rich. Because, you tell me, why does half the investment in infrastructure have to be dedicated to high speed? There is no greater stupidity than that of the new rich: kilometers and kilometers of high speed for which there is not even enough traffic to cover the costs of exploitation; the population is deceived into believing that it plays a multiplier role in economic activity, when it would be the same that would exert investment in technology and development, and simulating a false functionality, a false modernity, to the detriment of investments in neighbourhoods to displace hundreds of thousands of people daily, and this does have an immediate and daily economic transformation. And why do you do it? They do so for the same reason that Franco built swamps, to satisfy the great builders, the capital groups that live in the Official Gazette of the State. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u54	One second, Your Honor, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u55	Your budget, Mr Montoro, is also an X-ray of the absence of modernity - the absence of modernity - because we are dangerously moving away from the Community average in R & D & I, only 1.2% of GDP, below Hungary, below Ireland, below Poland; only 1.2% of GDP, when the European objective is 2%. And what message do you send to society, research centres, technology centres, universities? You may be in debt, this is the solution. And I ask you: how do you intend to compete with the major European economies? What future economic plans does the Spanish State have for the future? How will he face the challenges of the twenty-first century? Because its productive model is not going to guarantee the sustainability of the social model, and we will see it soon, let everyone know, we will see it in the face of the bankruptcy of the public pension system. And you have put in stress of resistance to the education system and the health system, in short, young people with no future and little chance of conquering in the coming years, unless you leave, a new right of citizenship, a new subjective right of citizenship, which is nothing other than the right to housing. So social exclusion, jungle, societies converted into the kingdom of'save who can', this is what your model brings us, because what are you waiting for? They're waiting for a new upswing so they can reproduce speculative bubbles, and because you're driving out the productive economy. Good proof of this is the ill-treatment of SMEs and self-employed people, hindering SMEs' access to public procurement, allowing large batches won by large companies to be subcontracted at operating prices of SMEs that do not take part in profits, tolerating the lateness of large companies with SMEs and burdening the productive economy of SMEs and self-employed people with higher taxation than speculative ones. And let me not say, Mr Montoro, that the successes of Spanish exports are extraordinary because much of this success is based on Catalan exports, 25% of the total, and do you know why this is so? Because in Catalonia we haven't been sitting around waiting for the economic cycle to change. There was a silent revolution in producing new products of medium and high technology, winning new markets to gain international quota, all without the help of the State; all the more, having the State against it. And if you want an example, I will tell you that you are the laughing stock of Europe now because you have boycotted a trip of entrepreneurs from Flanders and Catalan entrepreneurs to Morocco because it was headed by the president of Catalonia Carles Puigdemont. [[Applauds]] Nationalism of bell tower, nationalism of archabuz, son of Catalanophobia, do you not remember when you were part of the group of leaders of the People's Party who, in view of the possible purchase of Endesa, cried out in all the media that rather German than Catalan? Mrs. Esperanza Aguirre and other comrades of her party. Well, you know that despite having a state against it, we have for the first time in Catalonia's history surpassed Catalonia's secular dependence on the Spanish market, for the first time, with which this argument that has been used historically now will no longer be able to give it; moreover, I think you will understand the significance of this data. This leads us to think that it has the same importance as when the overseas colonies were lost, which was certainly a time of crisis for Catalan manufactures as the Spanish market was reduced to the peninsular borders. So, you stay with your nationalism of bell tower, archabus and above all self-harm. Another example: you refuse to integrate - see how modern they are - into the European patent system because the languages of this system are French, English and German. And then they have the nerve to tell the Catalans that nationalism is cured traveling. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] But if you are the champions of Hidelguism, the champions of Numentinism, the champions of honor without ships! [[Laughter]] Yeah, yeah. Laugh, laugh, but you're like a bunch of hoops and nationalists. That is why I also tell you that your budgets are an X-ray of Centralist Spain. You have understood nothing, absolutely nothing; it is more, when the state composed of autonomy was configured, for you it was as if you were torn off a tooth; in fact, you still do not believe it. A couple of examples that Catalan society perfectly understands: Museo del Prado and Museo Reina Sofia, 84 million in the budget; all Catalan museums - and any autonomous community could say the same - 3 700 000 euros; Instituto Cervantes, 121 million; Instituto Ramon Llull, which houses institutions in Catalonia, Balearic Islands and Pais Valencià, less than 300 000 euros. I remind you that a quarter of the Spanish state's population lives in Catalan-speaking territories. It is an absolute contempt, a ignorance I do not know whether deliberate or the product of your Catalanophobia because, in fact, you are the product of history. Since Spain had no external enemies, internal enemies were invented. Who? Catalans. We already know what their political culture is and where they come from. They still refuse, after years and rulings of the Constitutional Court, to territorialize 0.7 of the IRPF for social purposes, scholarships, active employment policies and even immigration funds. It is clear that you cannot boast of this budget; in fact, you cannot boast of a budget of 318 billion, of which you can only invest 12 000. They have been unable to end the bureaucracy of the state apparatus. When you accuse the autonomous communities of being oversized, you still keep absolutely useless ministries like the Ministry of Education and Culture - I'm sorry, Minister of Education -, yes, it is an absolutely useless ministry, like the Ministry of Health. So you can't give lessons. It is incomprehensible how they maintain budgets that are an X-ray of radial Spain. The 25th anniversary of the AVE Madrid-Sevilla - without any hint of criticism - has now been celebrated. It is said that it was built to reverse a tendency of isolation from the southern peninsula. If the Andalusians so believe, we respect him; we do not share him, but we respect him. In fact, if the Andalusians were happy, satisfied with the radial Spain of Madrid kilometre zero, we would not share it, but we would respect it. However, we understand that the economically reasonable thing would have been to invest in the Mediterranean corridor to communicate the productions of Huelva and Almería, the production of the Murcian orchard, the production of the Pais Valencià, the production of Catalonia, with each other and with Europe. But this formula, which I think is intelligent, that of articulating the ports of Algeciras, Valencià, Tarragona, Castelló and Barcelona, the People's Party and even the Socialist Party question it. In fact, as you know, budgets leave 70% of the Mediterranean corridor's investment in Catalonia by 2020. Moreover, mortgage to the Pais Valencià, to the tail of the investment per inhabitant, much below the population weight, and when Valencian citizenship ends up assuming this underfunding and even starts talking about the expoliation that the Pais Valencià suffers, to the tail of the investment, you should go worrying, not going to happen to them as always happened to Catalonia - that already, as you know, we go -, and you can also find that every time... Yes, yes, laugh, laugh. [[Laughter]] They also laughed a lot in Madrid when the Cubans wanted to go and I assure you that the smile was frozen to everyone when the Cubans left. [[Applauds]] You guys are gonna laugh. Whoever laughs the last laughs better. I say that they will find that there are more and more Valencians than they intend to create an alternative Spain, but surely, in the face of its closure, there will be more and more Valencians who will make this construction of Spain an alternative to create an alternative to Spain. Spread out, and I hope you'll get it, too. In conclusion, the investment in the Pais Valencià, the Balearic Islands and Catalonia is decreasing. Mr. Rajoy came and, as if we were a colony, he said he was going to water us millions at the door of the referendum. It was the same Chamber of Commerce in Barcelona - which I do not think is very independent, which does not mean that it is not in favour of the right to decide - which has denounced that the 4200 million in investments in Catalonia do not fit in the General Budgets of the State. In fact, this is a very low investment, the historical minimum. Faced with this, the Catalan economy will grow by 2.8% in 2017, it is expected to grow by 2.4% next year and foreign investment in Catalonia has grown in recent months as it had never grown, with which, it seems, independence does not scare the markets. [[A Member: There will be no]] Of course there won't be, of course! You for denying the evidence are not going to solve the conflict. You go and look at your navel and you'll find it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u56	Mr. Tardà, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u57	I'm finishing up, Madam President. In any case - I will take advantage to finish when I have the time to replicate -, let no one worry. Authorities, representatives of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, of the various territories of the current Spanish State, who were so alarmed at Mr Rajoy's promises, do not be alarmed, the Spanish Government never fulfilled or never complied with Catalonia. I remind you that Rodriguez Zapatero in 2007 committed 4 billion in close proximity, in raffles. Of that 4 billion has been implemented 10%, and now Mr Montoro budgeted 90 million and wants us to believe that it is a great investment. I hope I can finish saying a couple of things at the turn of the line, Mr. Montoro. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u58	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tardà, what has Spain done to you? We are a democracy, we are a country that knows how to build on itself, we are Europe, we are a state of freedoms as we had never been before in history. Why, then, that rejection? Why are you against the current when what we are doing in Europe and in the world is integrating from respect for identity, from assessing differences? That's what we're doing. This had never happened in Europe. Since the Second World War, this great European project, starting with the ECSC, was launched and signed in 1950 with a political intention: to overcome the differences between peoples, between ideologies, in Europe. We are experiencing this time of difficulties, with its setbacks - Brexit is a setback - and with the emergence of anti-European and anti-integrative political forces, and you are the ones who are resurfacing a nationalism that is not in keeping with our time, which does not respond to what is happening in this Spain, in this European Spain, that of freedoms, that of the rule of law, that of the globalised economy. Or isn't it this one? To you who has made this Spain? Can you explain? To give his explanation he has set up a theory about the economic and financial oligarchy - another, another -. Each one of them is making his film, it's clear; he's making a film to convince Catalans that they're being exploited by their own companies. If they are Catalan companies! It turns out that these Catalan companies are the ones that exploit Catalans. It is a truly remarkable thing the explanation we have just heard about the power of the Spanish oligarchy; so it calls it: the Spanish oligarchy. And all this around I don't know which football stage. I've been on a football stage once, that I remember once in a while I don't know how many years; I like football. I asked Mr. Iglesias when he gave me control. I came to say, do you like football? I like football, but that you speak to the Minister of Finance and Public Service now as a component of that economic and financial oligarchy... The truth is that I have neither the honour nor the taste nor the personal need for anything to be something very different from what it means to be a public servant, a member of the Government of Spain. I don't know what this theory comes from that you just set up in a few minutes. What has happened in Spain, Catalonia and Catalan companies is that in 1996 companies had invested 5% of our gross domestic product outside Spain. They were public companies, basically. Today they have 54% of our gross domestic product. We talk about direct investment in Spain. Let's talk about corporate investment outside of Spain. That's what Spanish companies do; Spanish textile, banking, energy, construction, infrastructure management companies do; that's what Catalan companies do. Or aren't these companies Catalan? It has even given names and surnames to supposed exploiters, and I understand that it is their political philosophy, which they have given us in this budget debate, which has given us for political philosophy; it has not been I, it is you, who have come up to this rostrum to set up a political philosophy that will really allow them to come to a conclusion that passes through these budgets; rather, that does not pass through these budgets. You say I was there. Of course, it was there, in Spain of that prosperity, in Spain of that budgetary stability, in Spain of the creation of employment, in Spain that founded the euro. That's where I was, of course, and doing what I've done this past time, which is to collaborate modestly to make Spain, Catalonia, emerge from this economic crisis. I said it years ago and then I deserved the headline of some Catalan press: we will not get out of this crisis without Catalonia. And, indeed, we are not emerging from this crisis without Catalonia. That is why you come up here to boast of Catalonia, of its economic behaviour, which is what the Spanish Government does, to boast of Catalonia, of its economic behaviour, of its job creation, of its investment, of its internationalization, of its exportation, of Catalonia receiving that foreign investment. [[Applauds]] Of course I do. What is the first industry, by size, in Catalonia? They are multinationals who are based in Catalonia and do so naturally, as they do in other parts of Europe, but they also do so with the security and reliability of having an institutional framework that is the framework of Spain. That's why you said it correctly, Catalonia continues to receive investment, but not only that, the large companies that Catalonia has are non-Spanish multinationals, from other countries, and have confidence in Catalonia and Spain. Or isn't that the way we really get that investment? It is you who project an idea - which does not stop being an idea - generic even chimeric with which you always end your interventions. He doesn't say "Spain steals us" anymore, because he doesn't steal us in the most material sense of the term. Why do you not say, Mr Tardà, how much these General State Budgets are projected as an increase in funding for Catalonia? Why don't you say so when you oppose these General State Budgets? Why don't you say so? Why don't you say that these General State Budgets are increasing pension spending by more than 3% and are ensuring that funding through a public Treasury issue that will properly fund pensioners in Catalonia and all over Spain? Why don't you say that? Why doesn't the Generalitat of Catalonia count what has been saved with the special funding mechanisms that we have put in place in the X Legislature? More than EUR 18 billion has been saved in the budget of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Because, what has the Government of Spain done? To comply with its obligation, we have done nothing else and we are boasting nothing more than to comply with the obligation to properly finance the public services of Catalans, since the Generalitat de Catalunya could not because it could not - and still does not - access the markets to finance its deficit, and not only that, but also to renew the debt that it is losing, which comes from previous issues. That is what we are covering with these special mechanisms and that benefits Catalans, as it is benefiting all Spaniards. He's saving on his budget. Did you talk about it, Mr. Tardà? No, no, This is what we bring in these budgets. Are these social budgets, yes or no? You will tell me that not at first, and I will insist that the figures be left on principle and read. Are these social budgets yes or no? You will say that for different political reasons I will vote against. You are in your right - you would lack more in a democracy - to vote against, but do not come up with arguments that we are in the hands of an oligarchy that sucks our blood and pushes us all towards an inextricable corruption... There's some stuff going on! Again, from triple A to the dominant oligarchies, we are in the same discourse of the sixties. Mr Tardà, this is the speech of the sixties. It's what we studied in economics faculties in the chairs of Economic Structure about the electrics, the banks, the ones that draw our blood, the vampires at dawn... it's always been the same. You left-handed are a bit old-fashioned; you have to update the left as well. Are you going to be against the investments of those companies? Do you represent a Catalonia that is going to reject the investments of these multinationals? Is that what you're saying? It is true that the speech falls from pure incoherence. Is that what you're going to say now, that your Catalonia, the one you want to independentize, is going to reject those investments? Is it going to deny globalization? In addition, he has made another statement that I don't know where he gets it from: that Catalonia has already renounced the Spanish market. But how are you going to do that! Where does this come from? 60% of Catalonia's production is sold to the rest of Spain and, therefore, that is very good for Catalonia and for the rest of Spain, because that means that when the rest of Spain goes better, in Catalonia more is produced. Does that bother you? Because that statement that you have made that you have been released from the Spanish market as happened in the time of the colonies, is that it seems to me... What economic assumption does this definition that you have brought here establish? In an economic debate of budgets we must bring in the well-built economic arguments, because to say this is simply a falsehood, it is impossible and would be so negative in terms of welfare for Catalans and for the Spanish as a whole that it would be unacceptable. This is like saying that in this European internal market Spain - imagine - has given up being on the German markets, on the French markets or on the Italian markets. It's really amazing, how amazing is the speech you've made, Mr. Tardà. You've had better days, because you've come to the rostrum in this budget debate to set up a theory that falls by its own weight. He has not talked about the General Budgets of the State, about what they bring to Catalonia, about what increases public investment to Catalonia. You will be able to blame us for not having gone any faster in certain investments, but you cannot deny that Catalonia has been one of the great recipients of the state's investments; of course it has been with the governments of the People's Party, before and now. There is that high-speed train that connects the four capitals of Catalonia with the rest of Spain and of course with Madrid. There is the big bet of closeness, which I have noticed that it bothers you; that it really bothers you that the Government of Spain is planning a greater investment, also more real, after having been in office, as I explained this morning, and not having been able to carry out our projects more quickly, which we are recovering, and there is that great investment project. There is the Mediterranean corridor, which, as I mentioned this morning, is another major public investment project that will improve Catalonia's ability to compete with the rest of Spain and the rest of Europe. It is therefore an absolutely primary project. We also have the R & D investment project. Or are we not doing what is in our hands to overcome the financial problems that have very important technology centers in Catalonia? Aren't we doing that, Mr. Tardà? Yeah, we're doing it. Go up to the rostrum and recognize it. We are solving problems that had been met and to which we are providing budgetary solutions within the special funding mechanisms. Therefore, Mr Tardà, I cannot tell you more about the approach your lordship has taken this afternoon, which I call extremely unfortunate. If the reasons why you are proclaiming your independenceist vocation are the ones that you have held in this rostrum, frankly I must wish you the failure of your political project because what you are really going to do is to go against the well-being of Catalans, to go against European integration and will harm the settlement of the welfare state, which is, within that Spain of freedoms, what is guaranteeing equal opportunities for all. Together we can overcome this crisis and we are overcoming it. United we weigh more in Europe and in the world. Globalization and European integration are irrefutable, and from that the proclamations of Esquerra, which seek to find an economic sense, are completely meaningless. They may be sentimental in nature, but in terms of the economic content or project of the General Budgets of the State, the presentation of this amendment to the whole has no real content and is again due to these kinds of ideologies which are summed up in a feeling that it is necessary to clarify to those who have it today that it is not what is right for them because we are building this Spain that overcomes the crisis within Europe and within the world. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Don't provoke, Mr. Montoro. Don't provoke. Do not question the Europeanism of Catalans because when Catalans were already Europeanists many of you were wearing blue shirts and singing the Face in the sun. And if you want, I'll tell you the names of the people who did it! [[Applauds]] Mr. Montoro, you'd better shut up. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Yeah, yeah, better shut up, 'cause everybody knows where everyone comes from. [[Rumors and Protests]] What? [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, blue shirt and face in the sun. [[Applauds]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u62	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u63	Shall we leave him? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] We quit, okay. We quit. Of course I have spoken about oligarchy, because oligarchy is the cause of democracy about to fail in the Spanish state. The oligarchy, of course! The oligarchy, the big game. I am no longer talking about the minor hunting of the Pujol, the Correa, even the political leaders. I'm not talking about the corrupt anymore, I'm talking about the corrupters. Yes, of course, the corrupters. [[Rumors]] Who owns OHL? Who is it? Mr. Villar Mir. And his son-in-law: the 'compi yogui' of the citizens Letizia and Felipe crowned, crowned because he wanted it, the other, clear. [[Rumors]] The stercolero is about to overflow with what the stercoleros contain. [[Applauds]] That's why democracy... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u64	One second, Your Honor. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u65	'Compi yogui' I said...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u66	One second, Mr. Tardà. Mr Tardà, I only remind you that we have this House and the rostrum to be respectful to all, to one another and to the institutions, within the freedom of expression. You may continue, Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u67	That is why I say that we are celebrating the presentation of the motion of censorship of Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Of course, because democracy is in danger! And also for other reasons. For example, for their commitment to the right to choose Catalans. So it is clear that democracy is in danger. Of course, if we didn't talk about these people, we wouldn't talk about the corrupters. By the way, Mr. Villar Mir, because I like to say names, yes, Huarte's successor. Do you know how he did the big Huarte capitalizations? [[Rumors]] You've been the one who provoked it. To know where we came from: Huarte, the one who made the capitalizations with the slave labor of the Republicans making swamps, roads and the Valley of the Fallen. They left in rositas, without asking for forgiveness, without repairing anything or anyone and then Mr. Villar Mir made OHL over the ashes and prestige of Huarte. And these are also the oligarchy. It is, I repeat, those who buy politicians. You, as a political party, do not speak of natural persons, you will not deny that you are perhaps the most corrupt political party in Europe. With this, you can't say that we elucidate theories about oligarchies, it's the biggest hunt. Moreover, the shames of the political and judicial system are now being seen because, as we are in the twenty-first century and the new generations are resisting to eat this toad, the contradictions are intensifying. So I am convinced that it was up to us, indeed, to denounce this oligarchy. Of course, both Catalan and Spanish oligarchy have accumulated thanks to the Official Gazette of the State big capitals blackmailing the State, buying politicians and even trying to plan our future. [[Applauds]] So we don't feel concerned when you intend to ridicule us. And, of course, laugh, but remember that in September we will open the electoral colleges and the Catalans will vote. [[Applauds]] Go laugh. We'll vote. Democracy is unbeatable, Mr Montoro. And now get up and laugh at the Catalans and laugh at our firm will to want to vote. You can laugh whatever you want, but one day maybe the smile will freeze because democracy will win, don't hesitate. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u68	I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Tardà, I used to criticize you telling you that you were old-fashioned, but it's because you haven't heard that democracy has already won in Spain. You haven't heard about the country you live in and why you're sitting there and why I'm sitting in this bank! Because there's democracy! [[Applauds]] There is democracy in Spain. We are a democratic country, we are a rule of law, we are a country that meets all the rules of freedom, we are a country that we Spaniards have given ourselves in the 1978 Constitution and that you are not going to supply with another democracy. You have to abide by the rules of the rule of law like any of us, because they are the rules that make us responsible in this House. In this House we are delegates of popular sovereignty; that is the role of those who have been voted to sit both in the Government and in the seats. We are delegates of that popular sovereignty. We are delegates, we never supply that popular sovereignty, we never supply it, and that is democracy, Mr Tardà. Democracy is not to consult in my community of neighbours because, if not, what kind of democracy is this? [[Rumors]] Democracy is a common norm that we have all given ourselves and, on the basis of that common norm, it is clear that there are procedures like those that you propose, but by reforming that common norm, Mr Tardà. We must reform the Constitution, yes, we must reform it in order to keep its approaches in check, but it does not contradict democracy with what already exists in Spain. It will happen to him as to other political groups, which from sitting in the seats have opened up, not democracy in Spain, but the skies in its path. No, the heavens have not been opened, as I said this morning, nor does the government come up with a plan to win the heavens or the seven heavens. No, we're already a Democratic country. We are a democratic country and a government in democracy, and what you are putting forward is out of place in relation to the meaning and function of the government. We are also a government supported by a political project, that of the People's Party, of which I am a member and am proud. [[Applauds]] I feel very free, very free, Mr Tardà, to do what is in the general interest of the Spaniards, as we have shown since the beginning of the 10th Legislature, bringing in legislation on corporation tax that the former socialist government did not bring in, changing that legislation. Is that in the hands of the oligarchy? Is that having a free acting capacity or being in the hands of someone who's giving you tax rules and regulations? As for those that we adopted last December, which contains this budget, on corporate tax, does anyone believe that if a government were dominated from outside it would bring those tax rules? Are they not a reflection of capacity, independence and the pursuit of general interest? What are you talking about? You set up a non-political theory, but philosophical-political theory on a tile. There comes a time when one says: but what I'm listening to, what I'm listening to, and what you dislate to justify your thesis. Justify theses from realistic approaches. We are a government that represents the liberal right-wing centre in Spain and that is what we are doing now and before, when we were government. Thanks to these policies Spain prospered, created employment, entered the foundation of the euro in the first place and became internationalized as never before. With your speech I don't know where you want to put us, but ask yourself an intellectual question, Mr. Tardà. You ask who are the owners of the big companies, the multinationals of IBEX. And I answer who the owners are: the world's investment funds. The world's investors are the main owners of these companies. Those are and you will not like them, but that is the globalization of the financial markets, which to the left is like Satan's representation. The truth is that there has never been so much international investment in our IBEX companies, to the extent that there are sectors, such as real estate, in which Spanish companies have disappeared, being replaced by investment funds, which they trust in Spain to invest. Do you know where those investment funds come from? They manage people's savings, they manage the well-being of countries, because some are sovereign funds. [[Mr Iglesias Turrion speaks words that are not perceived]] No, they drive in a positive direction. Well, I'll change the word. Indeed, they articulate, implement the savings of millions of people, of pensioners, in the world. There are countries that have a mixed pension system and those are the world's investors, the pension funds. It is not the capitalists who led capitalism in the eighteenth century towards the foundations of these workers. Today we do not live in that world, ladies and gentlemen, but in the world of the global economy, of internationalization, of respect for the rights of all, starting with the workers. And we live in the world of respect for financial investment, although if positions like yours were majority positions in this House, I could not say that they really are the real owners of those companies. It is very positive that this happens, just like the Spanish debt. More than half of the Spanish Treasury's debt is in the hands of foreign investors. And that's not good? That's not good, no. That's not good. Isn't that trust in Spain? No, that's not good. Of course, with you in the government sure that this phenomenon would not happen, do not worry that what we really would have to ask for the rescue as a country so that, through the special European financial mechanisms, we would be bought the bonds, which is what the rescued countries are doing. It is exactly the mechanism they use, because they cannot go and ask international investors to do so. And we do, and that is very positive, really trust that capacity. Besides, you've mixed the two debts, Mr. Tardà. It is confusing public debt with private debt. Private indebtedness is what causes this crisis in Spain, the debt to the rest of the world. And public indebtedness is the one that has been generated - during the previous socialist government and during the People's Party government - because there is a public deficit, because it was necessary to finance these public services, it was necessary to implement suppliers and FLA. Are you against suppliers and FLA? Are you against the fact that Catalonia restructures its debt vis-à-vis those financiers who are national banks and international banks and that it is the public treasury that is promoting this savings for the Generalitat budget - I have already told you, more than 18 billion euros - is it against this? Because his Government was not against it; on the contrary, it was explaining to international investors that it had the State guarantee precisely to finance those deficits and restructure the debt, and that was beneficial for all. So, I don't know what kind of demons your lordship has appealed to today, but he hasn't answered my question. Mr Tardà, how much does the financing of these General State Budgets contribute to the Generalitat de Catalunya that you, with your amendment to the whole, are rejecting? How much? Say it, say it. Go up here and say: I'm rejecting the General Budgets of the State because I'm rejecting the funding that comes from those General Budgets of the State for the Generalitat of Catalonia. How much? That is what you have to explain, but not only in this rostrum, you will have to explain it to the Catalan citizens, who are really going to suffer the consequences of their political position of rejecting these General State Budgets. And why, with the marked social character of these budgets, do they reject them? Why do they reject them? If these are the budgets for Catalan pensioners, these are the budgets that articulate the plans Prepare also for the long-term Catalan unemployed and the rest of Spain, if these are the budgets that are financing that education, that health, that social protection, why do they reject them? For a political argument that frankly... This afternoon has been gaining body, we have moved from a debate, which was expected, on topicality in terms of corruption to a political philosophy about really formidable dominant oligarchies. And all that to say they want to be independent. Well, it doesn't take that much, Mr. Tardà. You will want to be independent because your feelings are asking for it and that is legitimate but not legal, because we live in a democracy and we have to change the fundamental laws of that democracy, and that cannot be done by a government or a majority in this House. You have to ask the people, the people, the sovereignty of the people, but not in part; you have to ask all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] That's what you have to do, ask all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] You have to ask them what kind of Spain they want to build and, from there, talk about that referendum. But the Government is in the process of economic recovery, is in the midst of more and more Catalans having jobs, is in the midst of more and more Catalans having better and more equal opportunities, and is in the process of ensuring that Catalan pensioners have their pensions, which they have worked for a lifetime, which has made them worthy of them. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-03-CD170503.u70	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was seven and forty-five minutes in the afternoon.
