ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Antonio Ramón María Trevín Lombán, I ask Mrs Natalia González Peláez if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u2	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u3	In place of Eduardo Madina Muñoz, I ask José Enrique Serrano Martínez if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u4	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u5	Doña Natalia González Peláez and don José Enrique Serrano Martínez have acquired the full status of deputies. Congratulations and now we're going to applaud them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to the effect that the urgent inquiry of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the agenda as item 25 is first discussed in the section on the questions, and then the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea as item 24. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin with item I on the agenda concerning the debate on the whole of the proposal for a reform of the Autonomy Statute of the Region of Murcia. We are joined by the three representatives of the Murcia Regional Assembly who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom - in addition to the President, members of the Bureau and Members of the Assembly - we welcome to this House, which is the representation of all Spaniards. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Miguel Sánchez López has the floor in the first place. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go ahead, Mr. Sánchez López.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Over me you have had no jurisdiction - says the noble and arrogant captain Álvaro de Ataide to Pedro Crespo, mayor of Zalamea -. Crespo understands at that time that Ataide, by virtue of his status as noble and military, will be tried not by ordinary judge but by a judge of his own, with all probability man also of militia and noble rank. Ladies and gentlemen, with few modifications, this situation, reflected in a 17th-century work, could move well into our day: the then mayor is now a brilliant prosecutor; the other, by force and to illustrate the story, a politician of an autonomous administration, let us put Murcia on a case-by-case basis. Prosecutor and public office clash and not precisely for the honor of a daughter but for something more current, such as an award, a requalification or an irregular subsidy - surely it sounds to all of you what we are talking about -. And against the politician, against the public manager, there appear suspicions, evidence and evidence sufficient to be investigated. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's where the status of squatter jumps like a spring; the status of squatter comes out to protect the politician and give him the advantage. He will be tried by a higher court and not by the ordinary, as the common of mortals. Those who will judge you have most likely been appointed with your vote or even at the request of your party. He meets with them in openings of judicial and political courses, in meetings, in acts, in memories... Ladies and gentlemen, politicians know that they can sit on the bench - of course they can sit - but that they can do so before one of their own or, at least, close or close, and smile - of course they smile - as did the noble Captain Ataide. Well, that smile is the one that Citizens want to erase today from a pen. [[Applauds]] We are here to invite all of you to join us in this same purpose: to erase smiles. The truth is that it is paradoxical and strange for our rulers to hold on to the suffocation so deeply when in purity it would entail the loss of an instance when it comes to appealing - if not asking the jurists -. Some will argue that our rulers are unprotected from the perfidious allegations, but before this we have to say that there is no greater protection than our judicial system, in which we do believe. [[Applauds]] Moreover, in order for a charge to be made, rational indications of the commission of a criminal offence are needed. To a greater extent, if we look at our surroundings, ladies and gentlemen - we have to go to our surroundings - in the United States, in the United Kingdom or in Germany there is not a single stumbling block. In Italy or Portugal, for example, only the President of the Republic is caught up. In France, the President, the Prime Minister and his Government, only ten people. And it's nothing, it's absolutely nothing, they're countries that work, they're solvents and they do things right. In Spain, however, we have around 10 000 outposts, of which approximately 2300 are politicians. If you'll allow me the expression, a number of aphorized aphorates. Doesn't it seem to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have inflation in our country? We must therefore put the scissors in and somewhere we must begin to eliminate smiles, gifts and apply the constitutional principle of equality of all before the law and the courts of justice. How do you like it if we start today and start with Murcia? And why for Murcia - and I'm done -? For two fundamental reasons: Murcia has been mistreated by the scourge of corruption and we want to be the spearhead in the area of democratic regeneration, and we will achieve this. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, this initiative is supported by the unanimous will of the Regional Parliament. Therefore, we will start today and we will end all the outlaws, also with you because I hope that in this legislature you will lose the status of outlaws, just as I do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u9	Thank you very much. He now has the word Don Joaquín López Pagán.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u10	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I cannot fail to welcome at this time the representation of the Murcia Regional Assembly in the Congress of Deputies, the President of the Assembly, Members of Parliament, and in particular my colleagues in the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Regional Assembly who have placed their trust in me by granting me the honour of defending this reform of the Statute of Autonomy - thank you very much - with your spokesman here. Ladies and gentlemen, you must know that the second was the one that was defeated, that we have twice tried to have the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia reformed in this partial way to eliminate the figure of strangulations and immunity in our autonomous community, and the second was the good one. In the first - of course always an initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - we obtained a majority of blockage; in the second, indeed, as Mr Sánchez López said, there was unanimity in the amendment, and I want to expressly acknowledge - although he cannot defend it in the rostrum - the co-authorship and the firm participation of the Parliamentary Group Podemos in the Regional Assembly of Murcia, also present here its spokesman. Why this reform? Firstly, because our reflection, as I know perfectly well is that of this House, is that of the necessary recovery of the confidence of citizens in the politics and the credibility of the institutions. That trust and credibility, which have been undermined by countless cases of corruption, need an immediate response from public representatives, and we have done so modestly in the Murcia Regional Assembly with the reform that fortunately begins today. We understand from that reflection that the figures of the severance or immunity from jurisdiction are out of date at the time we live. In our view, the rule of law has a sufficient umbrella: the protection of our rights and duties, also of Members in this regional case, and our defence in any area and jurisdictional order. This being so, these figures have lost their reason; our freedom of expression must be guaranteed in the rostrum but in no case should it be an umbrella that makes us different from the majority of the citizens of our country. Therefore, we send a message of confidence recovery, a clear message in which we want to tell them by looking them in the eye: we are the same and we do not have a different treatment. We have thus placed ourselves - I understand, ladies and gentlemen - at the forefront of this reform, which we hope will come forward. And what we hear about some parliamentary group and its intentions in this reform we do not like, because that reform came out unanimously in the Murcia Regional Assembly, that much-needed unanimity for the reform of our statute. We need to be consistent and not just make reforms for specific situations, situations that led us to the biggest institutional crisis in the Murcia Region in the past twenty years, with the involvement of the former President of the People's Party in the Murcia Region in serious cases of corruption. This is not a reform to the effect, this is a reform that has a global, general character, a reform to respond in a certain way to the needs of citizens, but also to put black on white who really bets on the regeneration of public life and who simply does short-term calculations to maintain power. Ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to support - and we are starting today - this reform because it is just, necessary and because it emanates from the majority will of the citizens of the Murcia Region. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u11	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Víctor Manuel Martínez Muñoz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u12	Good afternoon. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as my predecessors have rightly said in the speech, we bring to this House, which is the national representation, a reform of our status of autonomy to amend two articles of the same - only two articles - with the intention of abolishing the outbursts to all Members of the Regional Assembly of Murcia, to the councillors and also to their president, a reform in which the People's Parliamentary Group in the Region of Murcia agreed in its substance, but never in its forms. Because today the Region of Murcia, far from making history, loses a historic opportunity - this yes - to speak from this forum of the Congress of Deputies about its real problems. Today, the Bats lose the opportunity to expose the harm caused to us by the disastrous system of autonomous financing or to talk about the drought, an endemic drought that already lasts more than five years and which also causes serious problems on our land. Or of that failed reform that we tried just a few months ago from the People's Party to assume some responsibility for costs that made us, yes, equal to the rest of the autonomous communities that fortunately already enjoy them. I insist, that is what we would have liked, to enjoy an equality that we lack today. We would have liked it to have been taken into account in dealing with that reform of the status of autonomy, a reform that we have always called for from the People's Party to be a comprehensive reform of that status. That would have been a more ambitious and profound reform, which we advocate from our party, not an express, partial change that does not respond to the great problems and challenges facing our region. At the Murcia Regional Assembly we were robbed of the possibility of the debate, the possibility of tabling amendments to this statutory reform, a process that we hope will be respected and guaranteed through this possible consideration. Because, ladies and gentlemen, while we all agree on the need to review the excessive number of outbursts that exist in our country in the various professional and political fields, it is no less true that this reform comes here without having the support of a serious debate and study on who should lose the outburst, who should not lose it and why should lose it. We agree on the need to change the current regime, but, ladies and gentlemen, let us not provoke this decision, which in its conception can be honest, a new inequality. Let us take this opportunity to open up a national debate about the outbursts, and let us not contribute to this reform, which would mean a new patch, to open the door to a two-speed Spain in democratic regeneration. Efficacy, progress in transparency, good governance and regeneration require the same rules of the game for all autonomous communities, because if that is not the case, we will be faced with window measures that only seek to see who reaches the goal of a regeneration that would ultimately be fictitious. What does it make sense for the president of the Autonomous Community in the Murcia Region to lose his stature and in our neighbouring Andalusia his president to remain stature no less than before the Supreme Court? How does it make sense for the President of the Autonomous Community of the Region of Murcia to go to an ordinary court when the President of Catalonia can go to a higher court? Ladies and gentlemen, equality; equality that is also demonstrated by what has happened in other autonomous communities, by statutes that are in process, such as that of the Canary Islands, or by what has happened in the Valencian Community, where the Valencian left voted against the abolition of the outbursts that we are being asked to abolish in Murcia today. Why, ladies and gentlemen, do you want to abolish the strangulations and not the inviolability? Why can Members go up to this rostrum and make accusations based on that inviolability that we have not lost, for example, in the Murcia region? Ladies and gentlemen, it is a paradox that a measure that seeks to equalize politicians with citizens is being conducted in Congress to create inequalities between politicians at national level. That is why the parliamentary group I represent does not intervene here this afternoon to write with twisted lines a new page in the political history of the Region of Murcia, we are here to respond to what the citizens ask us seriously and rigorously. We trust that this reform proposal will open up a deep debate, which will conclude with a sound and equal decision for all the autonomous communities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u13	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa, has the floor on the position-setting table.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, the Joint Group and the Democratic Party want to greet the representatives of the Murcia Assembly, the three commissioners and the rest of the representatives. Secondly, I would like to convey to you that, if this is a unanimous approach for the exercise of your vocation as a self-government, we are not going to question that vocation, because we also want the vocation and the majority in Parliament to be respected for Catalonia, and the right to decide and vote on 1 October. Let us hope that respect is mutual; we will, of course, respect this process. Moving on for a moment to the debate on drilling, the explanatory statement of this proposal to amend the Statute of Murcia says that this is a debate dating back to the 14th century. I do not know if they have gone far, far, before the French Revolution, talking about a parliamentary system of the 14th century. In any case, it is good to remember the origin of the drills. Stuffing does not help anyone escape from trial, be it parliamentary or be it - let alone by the way - a member of the judiciary, because if we talk about the number of outlaws, there are many more in the judiciary than in the parliamentary sphere; however, no one talks about outlaws in the judiciary. As I said, it is not a question of someone in the area of the judiciary or in the area of legislative power escaping from being tried, but simply a guarantee, but not a guarantee for the parliamentarian, but for the composition of Parliament. Historically, what was happening - that is why constitutional law took this step - was that a judge could alter - and cases occurred - the mature parliamentary systems, the compositions of the majorities and the minorities of parliament so as to influence their sovereign decisions. This is the origin of the drilling. But in this evening of passionate parliamentary debate, if that is the vocation of the Parliament of Murcia, we are not going to alter this which, from our point of view, I insist, is not a guarantee for those who have one instance and not two, the parliamentarian or the representative of the judiciary, but it was - it was conceived - a guarantee for parliamentarianism. But it is clear that the majority are also altered in democracies such as the Spanish one. The representatives of the Democratic Party began this legislature with eight deputies, including our colleague, leader and list leader by Barcelona, Francesc Homs, and, after a year, we are in this legislature without a fellow deputy, we consider, in conviction and in depth, that for deep political motivations underlying the trial in the Supreme Court, so let us note that in the Spain of the 21st century, to promote political participation, also the deputies are removed, those deputies who were democratically elected and who represented half a million votes. To conclude, it has also seemed to me to suggest that you raise a debate in black or white, in life or in death, on suffocation, but that you do not reflect on parliamentary inviolability; parliamentary inviolability implies respect for the freedom of everyone to vote according to their conscience, and no one has ever asked me why I vote, but parliamentary inviolability also refers to what is expressed from the rostrum, and on this surely the legislators had never come to imagine the ability to enter fully into the field not of dishonesty, because this is freedom of expression, but of some unsubstantiated accusations. I conclude by cordially addressing the representative of Citizens, who has finished his speech by saying that you are not only going to end the hanging in Murcia, but you are going to end all of us. He said it literally. I suppose he's referring to this Parliament's strenght. Look, as I want to be absolutely respectful of Murcia's vocation of self-government, as I ask you to be with Catalonia's vocation of the future, allow me also to claim, as a parliamentarian with a few years in this Chamber, that you respect us all to decide the future of the figure of the hanging in the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u15	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u16	Thank you very much, President. Firstly, very briefly, I would like to greet the commissioners of the Assembly of the Murcia Region and the other representatives of the Autonomous Community of the Murcia Region. I speak simply to say that our parliamentary group will not prevent the reform that the Murcia Assembly brings us here, without entering into the considerations that deserve us, because we believe that it is not now the time, the institutions of immunity and afforestation. That is why, as I say, we will not be an obstacle to this reform, but we do not think it is now the time to take a decision on these institutions to the extent that what the Community of Murcia decides does not concern this House or what we can decide in the future in the Basque Country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u17	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Murcia Regional Assembly, and I would like to say that in my group and in my party we are congratulating, because one of the wishes for democratic regeneration of Citizens is going to materialize in the Murcia Region, as it will in other Spanish autonomous communities, beyond certain occasional waves of some forces. [[Addressing the guest gallery and representatives of the Murcia Regional Assembly]] All this is part of a stream that will soon reach the members of the General Courts, to whose effect I formally ask the representatives of the people, socialists and Podemos to join in this regenerating initiative that will allow politicians to be tried - if necessary - by the same judges and courts that would correspond to any Spanish citizen. As a background, let me remind you that the Agreement for Governance and Democratic Regeneration between Citizens and the People's Party of 22 June 2015 is, in the first place, on the occasion of the investiture of Don Pedro Antonio Sánchez López as president of the community, which included the elimination of self-sustainment and which also included the immediate separation of any public or party office accused of political corruption, which leads us to the second precedent. The reform of the statute of autonomy was a condition imposed by Citizens in exchange for the abstention in the investiture of the candidate of the People's Party for the presidency of the community, Don Fernando López Miras, after the resignation of Pedro Antonio Sánchez caused by the investigation opened by the High Court of Justice in the Auditorium case. Finally, the proposal to reform Murcia's Statute of Autonomy in the area of parliamentary prerogatives was approved by the Murcia Regional Assembly on 26 April this year, with the favorable vote of the People's Party, Citizens, Socialist Party and Union Podemos. [[Rumors]] Abolition of the stumbling blocks is a key measure of democratic regeneration, since the abuse of them has corrupted the original sense of prerogative, in defense of the proper functioning of the institutions, to become a focus of particular privileges. In particular, strangulations break the principle of equality. It has been tried to justify the figure by arguing that those who enjoy this prerogative have - we have - to enjoy greater protection, in view of the functions that belong to us and that we perform in order to avoid fraudulent legal proceedings or to guarantee the highest quality of the judicial bodies that must know about them. In Spain today, however, a genuine rule of law has been consolidated, so it is neither justified nor mistrusting the courts of justice, nor claiming that the knowledge of certain cases affecting certain authorities should be reserved for higher judicial bodies, especially since in some cases those who are called to be tried by those bodies intervene less directly - sometimes obscenely directly - in the appointment of their holders, which is already directly intolerable, from any democratic point of view and incompatible with any regenerating aspirations. In addition, procedurally, severance has caused untold difficulties for the proper exercise of jurisdiction when in the same case persons severance and non-severance are involved. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u19	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. One second, Mr. Girauta. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a murmur that prevents the speaker from hearing. Please, be quiet. If not, leave the Chamber. Go on, Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u20	Thank you, President. We can recall the delays, the intersection of cases and the jurisdictional pilgrimages that have been experienced in complex cases such as that of the EREs in Andalusia or that of Gürtel, where they converged at the national level with autonomous aphorates and with individuals without any prerogative. Finally, the comparative law shows us that Spain is one of the countries in the world with the highest number of victims. Gómez Colomer numbers more than 12,000 outposts in this country, not to mention the members of the State Security Forces and Corpses. Let us contrast this with countries such as Germany, France, the United States or the United Kingdom, in which there are either no outbursts or the number is very small. In Spain, the queen consort or consort of the queen, the princess or prince of Asturias, her consort, the king or queen who had abdicated and her consort have civil and criminal cases and, in some cases, the president of the Government, the autonomous governments, the ministers, autonomous councillors, national and autonomous parliamentarians, the Ombudsman, his deputies, the president and councillors of the Court of Auditors and the Council of State have civil and criminal proceedings. This does not compare in the world, it is a real nonsense and, above all, very bad house with the winds of regeneration that fortunately have arrived in this country. These privileges have become an obstacle to the correct and agile judicial action, it is timely to abolish them and it is also a commitment made to citizens who have promoted and joined the main parties, in which this reform of Murcia is a first step. The abolition of the embargoes was reflected as a compromise both in the agreement for a reformist and progress government that we signed with the Socialist Party and in the agreement for the 150 commitments to improve Spain that we signed with the People's Party. So, please, we demand those who signed with us, coherence, and we are convinced that others will also join this wave of regeneration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u21	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u22	Thank you, President. First of all, I wanted to greet the representatives of the Murcia Regional Assembly, the President of the Regional Assembly and the Members who are accompanying us. [[Addressing the guest gallery and representatives of the Murcia Regional Assembly]] Today we are discussing the admission to the process of the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia, a necessary reform in the face of the greater institutional crisis experienced by the Region of Murcia and the consequent loss of credibility of its institutions. Today we are talking about affronts, but today we are also talking about corruption, because corruption is the second most worrying problem for the Spaniards and it is normal that it be so. Throughout the country, corrupt practices have been spread by representatives and public officials, which have affected from the smallest of the municipalities, almost all of them in the Murcia Region, to most of the presidencies of the autonomous communities. I will be allowed to read the list: Matas in Balearic Islands, Camps and Zaplana in Valencia, Chaves and Griñán in Andalusia, Pujol in Catalonia, Ignacio González in Madrid, and the last known case Pedro Antonio Sánchez in the Region of Murcia. Indeed, the former president of the Murcia Region is being double-checked by the so-called Auditorio case for his management as mayor of Puerto Lumberas when he signed as completed some works in which practically no foundations had been laid and, on the other hand, by the Púnica plot, in which he awarded in exchange for campaigns of image-washing over the Internet succulent contracts in charge of the Board of Education that at the time was running. Following all the above, Pedro Antonio Sánchez, former president of the Region of Murcia and current deputy in the Regional Assembly, is charged with nothing more and nothing less than fraud, prevarication, misappropriation and documentary falsehood, four crimes that concentrate the mechanism of corrupt management, a kind of management that has unfortunately been the modus vivendi of the rulers of the Region of Murcia, and to show the Auditorio case, but also the Zerrichera case, Operation Totem, Umbra case, Barraca case, Novo Carthago and Punica case. A corruption that sinks its roots in the persistence of oligarchical caciquism inherited from the old rural society, but also from client networks woven with the real estate bubble and that connect financial, business and political interests. The result is nothing other than the kidnapping of the institutions of all by a few and for the businesses of a few. This is what economist José Manuel Naredo has called democratic neocaciquism, pointing out that in the face of supposed liberalism this form of government requires strong public intervention, through urban management and the permanent transfer of public money to private hands. Therefore, corruption costs us the discredit of the institutions, erodes the values that must govern them and directly attacks the citizens who place their trust in them. In addition, corruption costs us a lot of public money in the Murcia Region. Only in the Region of Murcia, while half of the bats have not been able to go on holiday this summer and a quarter live with less than 8000 euros per year, the bill of corruption costs 815 euros per inhabitant per year, that is, billions of euros that are lost for hospital beds, to hire teachers or for aid to the unit. Therefore, corruption is the greatest gesture of anti-patriotism and betrayal that can be demonstrated by a public representative, a betrayal of citizenship and an insult to democracy. [[Applauds]] The problem is that in these years the traitors have abounded. It is not something we invent, the General Council of the Judiciary has encrypted in more than 1700 the cases opened in courts related to corruption crimes, and even today there are more than 500 accused of corruption in our country, most of the People's Party; not by chance the People's Party is the only party imputed in the history of our democracy. Well, many of these charges charged or investigated have been or are being tried and will therefore not face justice on the same route as a citizen on foot, as they will be assigned a special court and, surely, well-known judges. The so-called embargoes guaranteeing inviolability, immunity and jurisdictional jurisdiction, that is, a procedural exception that stems from the historical claim to protect the parliamentary task and the exercise of freedom of expression, have become a privilege in which public representatives have been detained to commit serious crimes. Because what we need to talk about this afternoon and what we are already talking about is the differentiated treatment of the public representative vis-à-vis the citizen and the unjustified inequality in procedural treatment before the law. For this reason, Unido Podemos will vote in favour of the processing of this draft reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia. We believe there is no reason for this privilege. We cannot understand that this will be maintained for common crimes and corruption crimes. We believe that the same procedural standard has to be applied to public office. We need to see this afternoon whether, after many breaststrokes in the Regional Assembly and after many public commitments, the day has come to know whether or not the People's Party is going to be privileged. The day has come to know whether the interests of the People's Party and the procedural situation of some of its members are going to go into the background and will vote in favour of what they are committed to in the Murcia Region in Congress. This assembly was already proposed by Podemos in the Regional Assembly at the beginning of the legislature, but the People's Party opposed it. Do you know why they objected? Because what it was all about was protecting former regional president Pedro Antonio Sánchez, that is, at the expense of staining the image of the entire region of Murcia. As I was saying, it is not something that we alone say, as the General Council of the Judiciary itself says when it states in its memoirs that strangulation is a privilege that delays imputation and prolongs judicial proceedings artificially, resulting in even some of these cases being prescribed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today because the case of the former President of the Murcia Region, Mr Pedro Antonio Sánchez, cannot be repeated. It is a shame for a doubly imputed former president to hold on, to remain in his seat as a member of the Regional Assembly, to continue to receive a public salary and to hold on to his status as a striker. It is also a shame that Citizens have allowed it and continue to maintain the People's Party Government in the Murcia Region. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I conclude, today we will vote in favour of eliminating the squabbles in the Government and in the Regional Assembly, being clear that this is a first step in the fight against privileges and their corruption, but being very aware that this Government and its control of the prosecutor's office, this Government and its continued pressure on judges and security forces are the main obstacle in the fight against corruption. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u23	Thank you. Mrs González Veracruz has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, with great affection, I would like to welcome all the people of the Murcia Region who are accompanying us today, all of us, but especially my colleagues in the Regional Assembly, our President - who is honoured to have a President in the Regional Assembly of the Murcia Region - and all the parliamentarians and especially my colleagues in my group. [[Addressing the guest gallery and representatives of the Murcia Regional Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is fortunate to have been born in the Region of Murcia, and it is an honor for me, as a Murcian, to have the opportunity again - as I did in 2013 - to defend the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia. I was born in a fertile land, a land with great places, with incredible gastronomy and climate, with great potential and rich history precisely because of the sum of peoples and the sum of cultures. But we have had a misfortune in the last twenty-two years, and it is that we have been governed - now more than ever - by politicians who have led my region to a'sinrumbo', by politicians who have been concerned about particular interests rather than defending the interests of the majority. This has created a situation of speculation, of friendly policies, of poverty and inequality - the greatest in the last twenty years - unprecedented in my land. But that's not my region, ladies and gentlemen. That is not the region of the majority of the citizens of the Murcia Region. That is what we have exported, what you have exported, what the politicians of the People's Party have exported out; and it hurts me; it hurts me that that was the image of my land, because it had to be eradicated in time. Today, with the reform of the Statute of Autonomy, what we are doing, led by the opposition, led by the socialists a year ago - a debate led by the Socialist Party and not Podemos to the Regional Assembly - is to eradicate a situation that should never have occurred. For those of you who know less about the Murcia Region, I'm talking about government delegates who spent years without taking money from the cashiers. I am talking about the former mayor of Murcia, who was general secretary of the People's Party, who was flying on a jet with entrepreneurs who requalified the land; or of condemned mayors, such as Fortuna, for the purchase of votes, who remained, even as mayors until they could no longer be disqualified by justice. We are certainly talking about a former president of the Autonomous Community of the Region of Murcia who is still in his seat, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and gentlemen of Citizens, being accused and not complying with the Transparency Act of the Region of Murcia; a president who intended, with the money of all the batons, of the Education Council, to wash his image, to clean his reputation, while in schools and institutes teachers and teachers suffered cuts. It is true that the strangulation by which Mr Pedro Antonio Sánchez is protected has nothing to do with his cause, because that cause has not been because he is a Member. It is also true that if we do not eradicate the corruption of origin, as the socialists of the Murcia Region think, we will not be exemplary, we will not set an example for a citizen in the Murcia Region who has enough reason to be far away, to be really disappointed by politicians. That is why this reform is required for us; because, in addition, it has been two decades not only of waste and speculation, but of dozens of defendants of the People's Party camping in its broadest. I honestly believe, with the sincerity that characterizes me, that today is a day of pride for the region, because, unfortunately, we have been news for too long - and what remains -, because Pedro Antonio Sánchez is at the door of the opening of oral trial, no more or less - take note, gentlemen of Genoa, that something will have to do with that situation of the President of the People's Party of the Region of Murcia -. Today we are news because we are pioneers, from the Murcia Regional Assembly, in a legislative amendment that I am sure will sooner or later be in all parliaments and will also be in the Congress of Deputies. To end with an image, with the image that the Region of Murcia does not deserve, that the citizens of the Region of Murcia do not deserve and that the politicians of the People's Party have exported, I think there is only one cure, and that cure is the exemplaryness that we have not seen in the People's Party or at national level, with a president - the first in the history of this country - Rajoy, who has had to go and declare in an open case for corruption, or in the Region of Murcia. I have the peace of mind to say that it is an exemplary fact that for two decades we have practiced the socialists of the Region of Murcia, first, by fighting corruption in an exemplary way, with honesty, with cleanliness, without fear and being persecuted - many of the comrades who are here know what I am talking about - and secondly, by putting it from the institutions - when the People's Party ceased to have an absolute majority, which was possible by the understanding of the three opposition political groups - the tools and the legal instruments to end this opacity, with that way of doing politics that the PP has. I am referring to this statutory reform, but also to the Transparency Act, voted by the whole House and which today is failing to comply with the People's Party and which today is failing to comply with Mr Pedro Antonio Sánchez, who is accused of a cause of corruption because, according to the Regional Transparency Act, he should have left his post already, as we have asked the Socialists of Murcia over and over again. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has understood nothing and today, unfortunately, I think they will give a new proof of that. Mr Martinez, I understand the exercise you have had to do here today as a spokesman for the People's Party. What a ballot to have a vote at the regional assembly and a different one at the national level. In time you are to prove that you will not continue to drag your feet to avoid an essential reform in the Region of Murcia, because the only thing you show is that you are trying to buy time, as you did when the socialists carried the reform to the Regional Assembly more than a year ago and as you are doing today if in the end you do not support something that you supported in Murcia. How many times have I heard from you, Mr Martínez, that the politicians of the People's Party do and say the same thing in Murcia as in Madrid? [[The representative of the Region of Murcia, Martínez Muñoz, makes negative gestures]] Lately, they don't usually do it, and they should make them look at it. Gentlemen of the PP, you have already shown that you want to keep your courtship above all things, clinging to charges and failing to comply with the Transparency Act, but don't worry because you already breathe air of change in the Region of Murcia. Because since you have not taken note or understood anything, it will be the citizens of the Region of Murcia who - now yes and definitely - change the Region of Murcia, and we will put it in the place where it deserves. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u25	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernabé Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President; good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to extend a cordial and affectionate greeting to the President of the Murcia Regional Assembly, members of the Bureau, spokespersons and other members of the Murcia Autonomous House who are accompanying us this afternoon during this debate. [[Addressing the guest gallery and representatives of the Murcia Regional Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not appropriate to initiate a procedure for reforming the status of autonomy specifically for the ad hoc amendment to eliminate the outbursts of Members and Members of the Government. Any reform like this must be the result of a prior reflection of the changes that may be necessary. This reflection must have a more general and comprehensive scope, with a wide-ranging debate covering all aspects that could be improved. For this reason, they are reminded that a special study committee has been set up, which is the appropriate framework for proposing the appropriateness of the proposed amendment. End of date. Authors? Don Tximo Puig and Dona Monica Oltra, that is, Socialist Party and Commitment in the reply that just two months ago - 21 June 2017 - gives the Council of the Valencian Generalitat to Citizens in order to reject a proposal exactly equal to this one. [[Showing two equal press articles, one in each hand]] [[Applauds]] However, do not think that this of the lack of hurry, of the paused study and of the measure is something that only happens in Valencia. I will give you another example: Seville a month before -21 May 2017-, protagonists in this case, Mrs Susana Díaz - I think something known by the socialist homes - and -oh, surprise! - Don Juan Marín maximum representative of Citizens in that beautiful Spanish region. [[Showing two other equal press articles, one in each hand]] Well, in that meeting both political forces agree to eliminate the squabbles during the legislature - not today, neither tomorrow, nor the past, nor the next month: during, calmly, without haste -, a circumstance to which the spokesman of the Andalusian Government of the Junta, Don Miguel Ángel Vázquez, adds that his preference is to open a national debate, while Don Juan Marín concludes that it had been a serious, rigorous and productive meeting, since it had not gone to make blood, but to be useful. Well, ladies and gentlemen, by paraphrasing the leader of Citizens in Andalusia, I also ask all of you to begin to be useful and to address this debate without demagoguery, with seriousness, rigour, calm and the reflection that is required. Let us start from a base, ladies and gentlemen: the People's Party is in favour of limiting and reducing the squabbles. This is reflected in our electoral programme, in particular in measure 3 of those aimed at combating corruption, as well as in measure 94 of our investment agreement with Citizens. But this does not prevent us from seeing from the People's Parliamentary Group the obligation to shed light, and indeed the truth, on a debate that has been overly mediated and tortuously mediated, as if this question were the redeeming manna that solves everything when it is obviously not so. Let us begin by remembering what stifling is, ladies and gentlemen: a privilege - as wrongly I have seen repeated this afternoon - or a guarantee. The defendants, ladies and gentlemen, for bearing such a condition do not - we do not remain - go unpunished or cease to be subject to jurisdiction. We are judged by the judges and subject to the decisions and decisions of the judiciary. Moreover, the thesis of privilege is hardly sustained when we even lose rights in relation to any other Spanish citizen, since we are judged in the first and only instance by the jurisdictional body that belongs to us, without the power to appeal against a judgment that is unfavourable to our interests. For the sake of the State, for the protection of the general interest of the institutions represented, and never of the persons caught up, what is sought is that it is the most expert, most qualified, with more accredited competence and to be possible in addition collegiate - because a multi-personal organ resists much better the pressures than one of a one-person nature - those who judge these kinds of issues. Or are there no parallel trials in our country, ladies and gentlemen? Is it not true that in Spain there is not the sadly known punishment of the television news? Is it that every time a judicial investigation related to a public office is opened, actions, statements and also pressures of all kinds - political, social and media - do not multiply immediately to demand their head and if it can be ipso facto much better? This afternoon we saw here a pitiful exercise of what I have just seen. Two groups on the left, the PSOE and Podemos, have done a vile and tracer exercise of what is one of the issues we will be talking about: freedom to speak from this rostrum. I am not going to roll in the mud, I am not going to take out the multiple cases of corruption with convictions - and of course with a multitude of investigators you have - but you today, Mr. Spokesman of Podemos and Mrs. Spokesman of the PSOE, have condemned a person whom the judges have not pronounced. You don't have any kind of political shame to do what you just did. [[Applauds]] No, ladies and gentlemen, it is the judges who have to talk, never us. That is the system that the Spanish have given us. Judges are normal people, exactly the same as all of us. They do not live in an isolated bubble, neither their families nor their loved ones, from what I have just told them, and hence the need for those more skilled, more accredited and more resilient bodies to deal with these issues. That being said, this does not prevent us from recognizing that there are more than 250 000 outposts in Spain and that it seems logical to consider how to limit and reduce this magnitude. But let us not forget that more than 232,000 of these correspond to the State Security Forces and Bodies, more than 17,000 to all judges, all prosecutors, members of the Court of Auditors, members of the Council of State, the royal family, the defenders of the people, state and autonomous together with their deputies, and only 2000 - I stress, only 2000 - we are responsible for more than 250 000 politicians. That's why I'm asking you three questions to see if anyone is able to answer them. The first, are we talking about suppressing all those I've cited or just part of? And in this latter case, why then to some yes and others not when the scourge of corruption, fortunately already in frank withdrawal, has been given to subjects belonging to all these elements? Secondly, on the assumption that we were only talking about public officials, would we refer to all kinds of crimes or, on the contrary, to those unrelated to public life? I say this because that is what PSOE, Podemos and Citizens' election programs say, in which case we should also clearly define and delimit what we mean when we talk about crimes of public life. And one more question I have pointed out before, what about the immunity and inviolability of our opinions from this rostrum? Would it also be suppressed? Thirdly and last question, do you make sense that a social and democratic state of law such as Spain, in which all citizens, including politicians, are equal before the law, should be solved in a skewed, fragmented, individualised way, rather than with a great consensus of political forces. What do we do? We suppress the fifty-five outlaws in Murcia and that's it? Do we tie the blanket to our heads with the six hundred who depend on us, Members of Parliament, Senators and Government? And what about the more than 1500 left? Why, once again, yes and no? Ladies and gentlemen, too many questions, too many unknowns, too many questions without easy answers. I remind you - I conclude, Madam President -...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u27	You have to finish, Mr. Barnabas.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u28	On 13 December this House approved the adoption of the Canary Islands Statute of Autonomy, and its article 38 maintains the provisions. Are we going to turn our country into a kingdom of taifas where it acts according to the political color of the corresponding government? Where will legal certainty remain in that scenario? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] The abolition of the embargoes must be the subject of a great national pact, reflected and serene on the part of all, and from that moment on let us apply the mechanisms necessary to amend the Constitution and nothing less than twenty-one organic laws, including seventeen autonomous statutes. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of what I have said, since we share the substance but not the form, I announce to you that our vote will be abstention. That is, I invite you, in the event that the issue that brings us today thrives, this issue is where it has to be dealt with, which is none other than the subcommission for the strategy of a new justice in Spain, which is the place that had already entrusted it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Bernabé, and thank you very much also to the representatives of the Assembly of the Region of Murcia; to your President and to all those who are with us here today.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u30	We turn to item II of the agenda. It is appropriate to discuss the consideration of the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, an organic amendment to the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, on imprudent driving of motor vehicles or mopeds and the sanction of abandoning the place of the accident. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Matos Mascareño has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech by welcoming this Congress of Deputies to Ana González, the promoter of the platform 'For a just law'. Ana González is here, in this debate to take account of this bill, for one reason only, because this is going to be her law. His was his pain, his was his rebellion, his was his treasure and his struggle, and his, therefore, will be this law. It will also be so for all bike enthusiasts, whether amateurs or professionals, who have supported it. At the end of last year, Ana González met with all the parliamentary groups, also with the Popular Parliamentary Group, and told us that her husband Óscar, passionate about the bicycle, had been run over by a truck, dying in the act. He told us that the truck driver didn't even stop and that he fled the crash site. He also told us that the court that judged these facts had ruled that there was no crime of failure to provide relief because, with the current wording of our Criminal Code, it is impossible that there could be failure to provide relief when there is nothing or anyone to help. I will read you literally a paragraph of the sole ground of law of that resolution: Taking into account that, according to the autopsy report, the death of the cyclist took place in the act, according to repeated jurisprudence which considers that in the event of instant death there is no helpless person, the figure of the crime impossible due to the absence of the passive subject when the instant death occurs and the one causing the accident without knowing such a circumstance leaves the place, as happens in the present case. Speaking of silver, we're left with stone. There was no need to focus on any further arguments to support the initiative. It was obvious that something was working wrong. We were sure that's not what the legislator wanted. For all those who attended that meeting, the conduct deserved criminal blame and, if we wanted a fair law, there was no doubt that we should undertake the necessary legislative reforms. The same support as the initiative of Ana González and the platform 'For a just law' obtained from the People's Parliamentary Group also obtained it from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the General Directorate of Traffic. I would therefore like to thank the ministers Rafael Catalá and Juan Ignacio Zoido as well as the Director General of Traffic, Gregorio Serrano, for their predisposition, their involvement and their collaboration in the text that we are defending today. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group has supported the non-legislative proposals that other parliamentary groups have put forward on this issue. It is now the People's Parliamentary Group that calls for the support of the rest of the groups for the consideration of this bill, for its improvement and enrichment in the process of amendments. The reform of the Criminal Code that we present revolves around three axes. First, a new offence is introduced for the first time, that of abandoning the place of the accident. The new text of article 382 reads as follows: "The driver involved in a traffic accident leaving the place of the events shall be punished by the following penalties: first, if he abandons a person who has suffered injuries which constitute an offence, with the penalty of three to six months imprisonment or with the penalty of a fine of twelve to twenty-four months; second, if he abandons a person who died as a result of the accident, with the penalty of six months to four years imprisonment. This penalizes for the first time a conduct that we all consider to be a creditor of criminal charges: the inherent evil to the abandonment of those who know that they leave behind someone who may be injured or even deceased and who so far had no place in the crime of failure to provide relief under article 195 of our Criminal Code. As you know, the crime of failure to provide relief, in its current wording, requires the victim's manifest and grave helplessness and danger, and this implies that its application is extremely restrictive; it not only requires that there be someone to help and, therefore, that the victim should not have died, but it also requires complete helplessness, for example, that there should be no one else at the scene, as well as the victim's manifest and grave helplessness. The new Article 382 covers all other forms of abandonment of the place of accident, which we consider, because they really are, to be absolutely reprehensible. The second axis is the introduction of an objective responsibility that has already been applied in practice by the prosecution and by case law. Thus, Article 142 - serious imprudence with the result of death - and Article 152 - serious imprudence with the result of injury - introduces the following paragraph: For the purposes of this paragraph, driving with any of the circumstances provided for in Article 379 of the Criminal Code, i.e. driving with excessive speed or under the influence of alcoholic beverages, drugs or narcotics, shall in any case be regarded as serious imprudence. Thirdly, in those same articles -142, serious imprudence with result of death, and 152, serious imprudence with result of injury - a paragraph is introduced which allows the judge or court to impose the higher penalty on a reasonable basis in one or two degrees in the extent it considers appropriate if the act is of a notorious gravity and would have affected the physical integrity of a plurality of persons with a result of an offence. This means that, in the crime of serious recklessness resulting in death, punishable by one to four years'imprisonment, if such circumstances were to be met, the penalty could reach nine years'imprisonment. In addition, the deletion of the current text of 382 allows for higher penalties. It established the rules for the prosecution of offences against road safety which produced an adverse result, i.e. road safety offences and the offence of injury, and punished only the most serious of those offences. Now, with this reform, it is possible to condemn both conduct independently and, therefore, allowing for a higher penalty. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debates held both in plenary and in the Commission on the necessary reform of the Criminal Code in such accidents, some of the spokesmen of the parliamentary groups have raised the need to reintroduce to the Criminal Code the misdemeanours of mild imprudence that were repealed in the reform adopted in 2015. This same proposal has also been formulated by the platform 'For a Fair Law'. As you will recall, the repealed paragraph 2 of Article 621 provided for a fine of one to two months for those who, out of mild imprudence, caused the death of another person. I have been reviewing the case law of both the hearings and the Supreme Court and the most common penalty of fine is that of EUR 6 per day, i.e. in the case of two months, it could reach EUR 360. I am sure that this proposal to re-enact in the Criminal Code the type of mild imprudence is not due to the fact that mild imprudence is considered a creditor of criminal charges - I am aware that all groups in this House share the principle of minimum intervention of criminal law - nor is it due to punishment, as I have said, a small fine. I believe that this is due to the conviction that criminal proceedings are considered more effective, safer, more secure, faster and cheaper in order to fix the corresponding compensation than civil proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, I am absolutely convinced, if we leave aside the partisan debate, that you all share with me that we must not incorporate into our Criminal Code a single and exclusively conduct in order to offer the affected person, the victim, a swift, effective, secure, guarantee and economic judicial procedure. Without a doubt, the victims of a traffic accident and their families need all our protection, the full effective judicial protection that our Constitution recognizes them; therefore, without a doubt, we must make available to them a civil process that is as agile, effective, secure, guaranteed and economic as the criminal process, and we can work on it at the right time and with the right rule, which we believe is not the reform of the Criminal Code. In the debates held in the Committee on Justice on 9 February, the spokesman for the Podemos Parliamentary Group, Mr Jaume Moya, pointed out some ideas in this regard. We are sure that there will be amendments on this point and I assure you that in the People's Parliamentary Group we are open to dialogue and consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing up. We were all struck by the events that Ana González told us and the platform 'For a Fair Law' and also by the terrible accidents of cyclists that took place a few months ago. We have all expressed our support for such morally and socially reprehensible conduct as the abandonment of the site of the accident by its cause to obtain a fair criminal charge. We have all been in favour of making the necessary legislative amendments to help prevent accidents, the abuses we have witnessed in recent months; we have all supported the initiatives, the legislative proposals that we have discussed so far, and all of us today must support the consideration of this legislative proposal, admit it to procedure and present and agree on the amendments that will improve it. Ladies and gentlemen, we firmly believe that this proposal responds to what the collectives and society demand of us. We believe that technically it is an impeccable law, but I assure you that we are open to dialogue and consensus in all the contributions that will improve and complement it. That is why I call for your support. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. It is essential to amend the Penal Code in order to try to tackle the growing statistics of drivers of motor vehicles who escape from the place where they have caused a traffic accident, a statistic that acquires absolute drama when victims occur in the accident between pedestrians and cyclists to whom the fugitive driver did not provide the corresponding assistance. The figures concerning the repetition of accidents in which the driver flees and does not pay attention to the injured are frightening. At present, our legislation allows the courts to interpret the content of the legal framework by applying punishments that are not in line with the social and human demand to help an injured person. In practice, the sentences for failure to provide relief are exceptional, hence the importance of embarking on a reform that was in fact already called for at the end of June at the plenary session of the Congress when a road and legal safety initiative was discussed which highlighted the concern about this problem, which has been the subject of special attention in the Commission on Road Safety and Mobility which is set up in this House. Our appreciation to all those who from civil society have made us aware of this drama. This legal reform is aimed at reducing the number of victims and is subject to a greater penalty for abuses and behaviours which show the influence of psychotropic substances or alcoholic beverages on the origin of the accident. In fact, one of the most frequent reasons for running away after a hit on cyclists or pedestrians is precisely to avoid the further aggravation of responsibility and the corresponding conviction for being the driver of the vehicle involved under the effects of alcohol and other drugs or for administrative offences, such as having withdrawn the card, not having passed the ITV or not having been subject to compulsory insurance. In short, I express the Forum's support for this legislative reform in the confidence that it is useful to try to reduce the casualties and victims of our roads, especially cyclists and pedestrians, and to contribute to greater awareness in order to give immediate attention to the victims of traffic accidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u33	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin my speech, allow me to extend to all your ladies and gentlemen our deep satisfaction at the celebration of the National Day of Catalonia yesterday, 11 September, for its massive character, its festive character, its civic character, and to congratulate each and every Catalan, the 7.5 million Catalans, who have shown that there is a Catalan way of doing things and that is why we are very proud. [[Applauds]] I want to begin my speech by congratulating and dedicating this law to Ana González and the platform 'For a just law'. It is your law, it is your law, Ana; thank you for your work, for having brought us all that happened and that today it is a reality that this law, the law Ana González, begins to walk. Go ahead and have the support of the Democratic Party in its proceedings. The 2016 DGT report showed that, in that year, accidents in the city had increased by 18% and that the most impacted by them were cyclists, pedestrians and drivers. Unfortunately, there is an increase in accident damage in traffic accidents, so action is needed, and this bill is in the right direction. We think it is right to increase, for example, the serious recklessness of all those acts that have caused accidents as a result of drug, drug and alcohol intake or also by speeding up. We find it very positive that we can define the abandonment of the place of the accident, leitmotiv of the proposal presented to us by Ana González and the platform 'For a just law'. We shall therefore vote in favour. We would also like to thank the Member of the People's Party for leaving the door open so that we can discuss how we could introduce the slight recklessness. It is true that we cannot act on the victims' dictates and that the Penal Code has to be the last ratio, but it is also true that the distractions behind the wheel are the cause of more than half of the traffic accidents and it is a necessity that we all end up with this social scourge involving traffic accidents. Perhaps it could be considered in the course of amendments that these reckless conducts of diversion in the field of traffic could be classified as minor offences in the Criminal Code in order to be able to give a warning to drivers that the steering wheel is not worth any distraction. We would thus offer a fairer remedy to the victims, who could be compensated for their right to appear before the criminal court. There is another question - I will shorten for the short time that I have - that moved my group Carlos Soria, Marta's father, friend of Ana, who saw how some kamikaze drivers, who were driving recklessly, racing with high-cylinder cars with lights off, saw the life of their daughter. Today these people are free, despite having a criminal record. The Penal Code says that they will have a conviction; however, today they have not yet been deprived of a driving licence and are at liberty. In the calm debate that these issues deserve, we would like to see an analysis of the kamikaze behaviour that causes the death of innocent victims, thinking above all that could happen to either of us or to our children. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. A proposal for an organic law amending the Criminal Code on imprudent driving of motor vehicles or mopeds and the sanction of abandonment of the accident site is being discussed. First of all, as other speakers who have spoken before me have done, I would like to greet the guests who are with us today, as well as to express our satisfaction as this bill responds to an important social demand resulting from the increase in accidents in which the victims are cyclists, pedestrians and drivers, as has already been pointed out. It is a satisfaction because, to some extent, it culminates in debates that have been held in this House, in the context of the Commission on Road Safety and Sustainable Mobility, on these same issues. I have to point out that in the European Union Road Safety Strategy 2010-2020, Spain has a high level of compliance, above average, in reducing deaths in road accidents, which is no obstacle to us not becoming aware, as we do, of those accidents with the weakest parts that sometimes travel on the road: pedestrians and more usually cyclists and drivers. The bill opts for a punitive increase, forgetting the preventive and educational measures that should accompany it and which we will certainly address in the Commission on Road Safety. The increase in punishment, as has already been said, is manifested above all in articles 142 and 152 of the current Criminal Code, insofar as in respect of homicides with serious and less serious recklessness and injuries with serious or less serious recklessness the judge is given the possibility of imposing the higher penalty in one or two degrees if there is a double circumstance: the notorious gravity of the conduct of the driver and affecting the physical integrity of a plurality of persons, with a result constituting an offence. In turn, it is used to legally determine, op legis, what is to be understood by serious recklessness, bringing to the case the factual assumptions of article 369, which are, as has already been said, speeding driving above the limits established on urban or inter-urban roads or under the influence of toxic drugs, narcotics, psychotropic substances or alcoholic beverages, and also driving with fear. As a second measure, a specific competition rule was repealed, which included 382 between the offences of danger to road safety -379 to 381 - and the offences resulting from injuries and homicides, implying that only the most serious offence in its upper half was punishable. This provision, 382, is repealed, thereby allowing all offences to be punished for their amount, except, of course, that the competition rules of article 77 do not come into play, i.e., where an offence of danger is necessary for one or more subsequent outcome. Finally, in place of repeal 382, which established that specific competition rule which I have cited, the offence of abandonment of the place of the accident, which is obviously a malicious conduct, is introduced, as has already been said, both the abandonment of the injured and the deceased. In this case, too, we will have to discuss in the Commission whether a competition could be held under the circumstances of 195.3 or whether the criteria of Article 8 of the Criminal Code, in which the special provision applies preferably to the general or the broader one, would apply in this case, contrary to the competition, at least complex. In short, in general terms, we have to say that we support the consideration of this proposal for an organic law, without prejudice to the amendments and amendments. We thank the spokesman for the People's Party for the willingness he has shown to dialogue with all groups on the amendments that we can make if necessary. We are pleased that we have taken a step forward in this deep social concern, which is also of this House. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u37	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u38	Very nice late. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, the Catalan Republicans are going to vote in favour of taking this initiative into consideration, and we are going to do it out of responsibility for the victims of traffic accidents. We have come to fill an existing legal gap despite the many legislative amendments to the Penal Code, but we do not fully share the initiative of the People's Party, as the spokesman for the PNV pointed out very well. It is clear that from Esquerra Republicana we cannot share the increase in penalties in view of the fact that there are other measures other than the penalties that arise in this proposed law. That is why we will be tabling amendments to take account of this proposal for a law. It is clear that we fully share the need to legislate with the aim of ending impunity when a driver involved in a traffic accident leaves the place of the events, whether the victim has suffered injuries or died, however, Esquerra Republicana will not miss the opportunity to make a criticism of this way of lawmaking, not because it is a proposal for a law, but because no one escapes that we are already carrying thirty amendments to the 1995 Criminal Code - it seems more and more the old consolidated texts of the Criminal Code - and during all these reforms, some with a validity that has not reached a month, it is clear that someone could have realized that there was this problem, because social demand already existed. Moreover, the last reform, Organic Law 1/2015 of 30 March, was a substantial reform of the Criminal Code in which the majority of parliamentary groups were not included. Basically, with the People's Party and some other political group, like UPN and Forum Asturias; I don't remember if there were any more. In any case, it was not a reform like the one required by the Criminal Code. As some have said, the Constitution is still in the negative and, therefore, it is clear that it required greater consensus. As this is a vital issue for victims, we believe that the Government itself should have put forward a bill rather than a bill. Despite all these considerations, we will vote in favour of what I have said. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u39	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rivera Andrés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hit a cyclist today. I was losing track of changing the radio station. I think I killed him. I haven't stopped to check, but I don't think he was moving. I've got the bumper broken. I'll have to change it today; I like my car to be perfect. I know nothing's gonna happen to me. If the Civil Guard locates me, I won't even pay anything; my insurer will. But this isn't really me. [[Rumors]] This is what happened. My husband was hit by a truck. The driver who hit my husband left the scene and then stopped him by the Civil Guard. I am told that, because the facts are a slight imprudence - come on, a foolishness, a foolish distraction - it is a fault and, applying the last penal reform, the case is closed and there is no need to hold criminal proceedings. I feel so much pain and so much lack of protection on the part of justice and the law! Is this what a life is worth? I love you, Oscar, and I won't rest until I get justice. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u41	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to have a conversation, keep it out of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u42	I'll honor your memory and make our two children proud because I didn't give up. This isn't me, either. It is the life of Ana González, who did not give up and a year and a half later is here today, in the rostrum of Congress, seeing how it becomes reality 'For a just law'. Thank you, Ana. This place, this atrium, this moment and this day are yours. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Yesterday Ana told me: When I started the fight 'For a Fair Law', I launched this text - which I just read - to social media, which became viral in a few hours. More than 200,000 people shared it on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. I always imagined myself reading this text in Congress - Anna told me -; since I can't read it, I would like you to do it. I cannot tell you the responsibility and honour I felt today when I read this letter. Ana would like to thank everyone, the Members of all political parties, for listening to her first and for working to change this situation so that, in the future, no more victims or their families will live in a situation similar to hers. Although this is not my story - it's Ana's -, it could be; it could be any of us's. When Oscar Bautista passed away, the investigating judge considered it to be a case of murder on account of recklessness of a mild - I repeat, recklessness - character, filing the case. This impunity is a consequence of the latest reform of the Criminal Code, which, through the single derogatory provision of Organic Law 1/2015 of 30 March, modified the entire book of the Criminal Code regulating these offences by deleting them. All injuries caused by slight imprudence, whatever, including death, were simply removed from the penal sphere. But, once again, Ana did not give up and started an application at Change.org, presenting in a few months more than two hundred thousand signatures here in Congress. Ana has also asked me to thank on her behalf the more than two hundred thousand people who with her signature have not left her alone. In case that were not enough, Oscar's case also did not meet the criminal type of omission of the relief duty. Frankly, the impunity that those who refuse to help the victims and run away are scandalous. When I first met Ana, in November 2016, I couldn't believe what she and her lawyer, Francisco, were telling me. I have no legal profile but I have worked for many years in road safety and my common sense tells me that there is no right to protect the escape of the driver who causes an accident, there is no right. Ana did not give up and the provincial hearing did consider that there should be a criminal trial, but what if she had given up? He did not give up and today we are here working so that no more victims feel helpless by justice, because they are victims twice: the first, by the misfortune they suffer in their lives and the second, by the laws that do not protect them. In order to break up this whole situation which seriously affects cyclists but also victims of traffic accidents, on 29 June we are debating here, in this House, a non-law proposal for Citizens that we approve, fortunately, unanimously, all political groups; from this comes the draft law that the People's Party has tabled. I want to congratulate you on the speed you have had in responding to the citizens' demand to introduce this bill in less than three months, although I have to tell you that there will be a lot to change, there will be a lot to deal with at the level of amendments, because it is a law drawn from the race, it is a law drawn to calm the social alarm and we will certainly have to work very hard to ensure that, when it comes out of here and passed in the Senate, it is Ana's law. Look, besides, I'd go a lot further or a lot sooner, before the accident happened. I think the measures that the DGT is putting in place, such as the subway and half separation campaign, in advance of a cyclist, are very good, but let's not forget that today many of these accidents occur at the first hour on the weekends and are linked to the consumption of drugs and alcohol in drivers. If we are able to combine the concentration of cycling victims and the concentration of accidents caused by alcohol and drugs, we will be identifying the places at greatest risk and we will be able to strengthen controls and prevent them. Emilio Rivera, who was my father, used to tell me that the best accident is the one that doesn't happen. He, who is no longer since 2012, practiced and adored cycling; every year he accompanied the Tour in the stage of the port of Pajares - well, he did the stage at his pace a few hours before, but always, always reached the goal -. If he were here today he would certainly join Ana's cause, as I hope the 350 Members of this House will. It goes by Oscar, it goes by Emilio, my father, and it goes by all those who love sport and cycling, and above all it goes by Anna; Ana, it goes by you. Many cyclists and victims will always be grateful for their struggle. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u43	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u44	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, as it could not be otherwise, I would like to greet Ana González, the promoter of the platform 'For a just law' and thank her for all the work and effort made to make visible the judicial defencelessness of the victims of the road violence that is currently taking place in our legal system. Since it cannot be otherwise, our group will vote in favour of the introduction of this bill for the amendment of the Criminal Code. We are always in favour of opening the debate and it is clear that the current regulation is frankly better with regard to recklessness in driving and sanctioning the abandonment of the accident site. It is not surprising, however, that what is trying to improve the People's Party is a legal bulge that it imposed two years ago with the roller of the absolute majority, that roller that has caused so many problems for our country. Let us make it clear, the 2015 reform of the People's Party government, unprotected vulnerable groups not only on the road but also in the courts. Now, the People's Party recognizes its mistake, a mistake that the multitude of technical arguments like those we have heard cannot hide. There have been many criminal and legal consequences of this reform. Let me point out at least two of them. The first, the repeal of Book III, of faults, entailed a criminal decryption that meant the helplessness of thousands of victims by not making clear the delimitation of categories or enabling a clear and specific procedure. The second, consolidated through the facts the commercialization of something as serious as effective judicial guardianship and on conditions of equality; that is, in practice this means that the victim renounces to assert his right, conforming to the offer to the bottom of the insurance company. The bill that we are debating today continues to have many shortcomings, surely the result of the haste with which this necessary counter-reform of the 2015 reform has been addressed. Of course, we will make our contributions in the opening speech to the debate that this law because the current wording of the Criminal Code on the subject before us does not meet the criteria that it should answer - neither that of justice nor that of proportional - and, above all, leaves many collectives unprotected. However, we have already made our position clear on other occasions and the reform of the Criminal Code is insufficient to reduce the alarming increase in victims of abuse we have seen in the past year. This should certainly be the shared goal of all parliamentary groups. We have often said here that focusing on punishment at a time of social alarm is simply punitive populism and our responsibility as political representatives is, on the one hand, to prevent people from dying and, on the other, to prevent the victim's double victimization. Firstly, prevention in road safety is essential. This House has twice urged the Government to draw up a State bicycle plan with the resources and means necessary for control and the population. I emphasize resources and means because no plan can have effect if it is not provided with the necessary resources. Also, for example, include the cycling collective in the Higher Traffic Council to enforce their rights in future legal changes that are relevant. But once the accident has occurred, once there is a victim, it must be accompanied by tuitive and guaranteed processes. It is not difficult to imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of injustice and defencelessness that occurs in a victim in the midst of his pain and suffering when he has to face the legal machinery of large insurers on long, expensive roads and without any guarantee that his rights will finally be recognized. In this regard, our group proposes three legal reforms that must accompany the draft law that we are debating today in order to ensure that the protection of victims is complete and that effective judicial protection is guaranteed. First, to introduce in the Civil Procedure Act 1/2000 a special, full and prompt procedure, specific to the claim of damages for traffic accidents; that is, a procedure that does not prolong suffering and recognizes the situation of inequality of individuals vis-à-vis insurers in legal proceedings. Secondly, to revise Law 35/2015 of 22 September - another gift from the People's Party roller - of reforming the system for the assessment of damage caused to persons in traffic accidents. This review should address the procedure for victims to claim the resulting compensation from insurers. Thirdly, to revise Law 50/1980 on Insurance Contracts, with regard to the recovery of legal defence by the insured persons themselves, and to penalize unjustified objections to their payment by the insurers. Ladies and gentlemen, let us open a comprehensive and comprehensive debate on the protection of victims of traffic accidents, beyond the reform of the Criminal Code; let us consider prevention as a priority and let us accompany the victims not only with beautiful words, gestures for the gallery and hardening of penalties. We are dealing with the necessary legal reforms to prevent double victimization, personal pain and injustice in judicial proceedings that, today, are not used to recognize the rights of people once, unfortunately, they become victims of a traffic accident. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u45	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Bellido Acevedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u46	Thank you very much, President. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) has here taken into consideration a non-legislative proposal to reform the Criminal Code, mainly for three reasons: for the great social alarm that has been generated in recent months, in recent years, for accidents and for the judicial consequences of these accidents that have been very unfortunate; for there is pressure from groups and associations of victims of cyclists and, in particular, from Mrs Ana González, who has embarked on a just cause of recognizing that the situation is not what it should be today; and also after initiatives by the political opposition. I will refer to the magnificent work that has been done in the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Road Safety by Members of all parties - including my own, the Socialist Group - and also to the good work of colleagues from the PSC, Monica Lafuente and Oscar Ordeig. First of all, I would like to say that it is curious that this reform of the Criminal Code brought to us by the People's Group is not going to address or solve, at least from a quantitative point of view, the main problem that brought about the reform of the Criminal Code of 2015, with the decriminalization of slight imprudence; and that is that before 2015, through the trials of faults, many major injuries were solved with all guarantees and the victims were protected. Today, victims have to go to the administrative and civil courts, which means paying court fees, not being able to count on the medical examiner's report, increasing the time limits for litigation, and also being able to assume procedural costs that were not involved in mistrials. Totally, that the reform that the People's Party made in 2015 was bad for the victims and was good for the insurance companies, which were able to resolve, through out-of-court procedures, through negotiation, significant discounts in compensations, in compensations. Therefore, that this is not here today on the table is already relevant; and, therefore, although we support this consideration of reforming the Penal Code, we want to make it clear that this initiative by the People's Group is insufficient. On the other hand, it is true that this reform did not make clear some things, the difference between serious and less serious imprudence, and now there is a better objective of when it will be serious and less serious imprudence. The criterion will be the speed and consumption of drugs or alcohol, and it seems to us correct; but one of the issues contained in the text, which is the possibility of increasing homicide sentences for serious or less serious recklessness, meets an unspecific criterion, such as notorious gravity. It has also been said here, and it has been positively appreciated by the groups, that a subtype of the omission of the duty of relief is created which refers exclusively to the cause of the accident, and that it is the crime of abandoning the place of the accident, on which we are going to work and study with the parliamentary groups to see if we can reach an agreement, because that is the will of the Socialist Party, and it is clear that there is a social demand to blame this kind of insolidary conduct, this type of conduct absolutely reprehensible. But the truth is that we must try to establish the punishment, the punishment for the conduct and not for the result, another aspect of this initiative that we must try to value. The Socialist Group is going to vote in favour and is prepared to achieve a social consensus on this matter, but let us start by saying that the previous reform is wrong; that it has unprotected the victims; that as the current regulation, which is the 2015 regulation, has unprotected the victims, we have to intervene by making a shared diagnosis; that the legal operators and also the collectives ask for clarity and answers to anti-social behaviour, as we have said; and, therefore, because we do not agree with one hundred percent of the text, we are going to seek to work with the People's Group and the rest of Parliament's forces to try to achieve a great social consensus, above all by thinking about a greater sensitivity towards the victims, who deserve it, and also by equipping ourselves with a more coherent and, above all, more effective system. It has been said here by the spokesman for Podemos that if the will is to care more and better for the victims and improve road safety, this is not done only from the Criminal Code but other initiatives that the Government could have already undertaken; political, in short. We are waiting for educational measures - we are still the only OECD country that does not have road education as content in its regulated training -, training measures supporting us in the sector of self-schools, greater work in prevention in collaboration with the Civil Traffic Guard - which does a magnificent job but which needs to be oriented towards prevention - and the use of technologies to avoid so many accidents. In short, work that remains to be done and which the People's Party can do directly, without the need to come to this Parliament, talking to the victim groups and which it has not done at the moment. We have demonstrated, both in the Committee on Road Safety and in the Committee on Justice - putting forward initiatives in this area by supporting cyclists' groups, victims' associations - that we are in favour of reform. We want them to be agreed, we want to do them with the greatest sensitivity, without populism, but above all we want them to be effective in preventing and avoiding accidents on our roads. We shall vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u47	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u48	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. First, the non-law proposal of the popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Socialist, Confederal de Unimos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Citizens, of Esquerra Republicana and Mixto, regarding the impulse of an organic law to eradicate violence against children. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Heredia Martín has the floor, first of all, for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to allow me, first of all, to welcome the social action bodies working with and for children - especially Save the Children - who, with their enormous efforts, have made it possible for us to have this debate this afternoon. Therefore, my welcome - that of the People's Parliamentary Group - and the recognition of the enormous effort they have made to ensure that we are here this afternoon. Today we must all be proud - especially the members of the newly launched Committee on the Rights of Children and Adolescents - because we are bringing to this House together a bill that seeks to eradicate violence against the children of our country. Today we are all united in the fight against violence against children, and today citizens will know that, despite our differences, we are able to work for the interests of children; that none of us here are unfailing in the face of violence against children, and that we agree that violence against children is one of the most cruel acts that a human being can do, because of the innocence of children and above all because of the absolute violation of their rights; that we also know that such violence can take multiple and changing forms: that it can be carried out by adults, by another child in equal conditions, that it can be done within the family, that it can be done in schools, in communities, that it can be presented in the judicial sphere and that it can be carried out also through the media and social networks. We are also aware, ladies and gentlemen, that violence against children in Spain requires an urgent and determined response from the public authorities, and that response is being reinforced here today. And I say it is reinforced, because in recent years, thanks to society as a whole, actions have been carried out that have allowed the protection of children to gain weight and relevance on the Spanish political agenda. And as shown, this initiative and also many others that have developed throughout the 10th Legislature, because we cannot forget that until the 2010 warning made to us by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, little has been done in our country for children, for children. For that reason, a number of recommendations were made to the Government of Spain and we were told to strengthen coordination between the autonomous communities and the State, also to address the risks arising from the widespread use of the Internet and to use, of course, more resources to realize the rights of minors. With these recommendations, the X Legislature made real progress in this area, and in the last five years when important steps have been taken towards the protection of children, as before had never been done in Spain. Minors were recognized as victims of gender-based violence, with 64.9 per cent of women who have been ill-treated having underage children. An ambitious reform of the child and adolescent protection system was also carried out. We became the first country to incorporate, as a guiding principle in administrative and judicial proceedings, the best interests of the child. Many plans for children were put in place, with a large budget of more than EUR 10 billion and more than 365 specific measures. Also, specifically in the fight against violence against minors, the basic protocol for intervention against ill-treatment in the family - this has not been done since 1996 - was updated. Protection against crimes, such as sexual abuse, was also strengthened, creating an instrument that is functioning today, such as the central register of sexual offences. Ladies and gentlemen, if something was done and was key, it was the constitution in our area, in Parliament, of a subcommittee to address the problem of violence against children. With more than 140 conclusions, great results were achieved and a working group was set up to address the draft law that brings us here today. In this regard, I must stress that the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality has begun to take the necessary steps to achieve this new standard. To this end, on 23 February this working group, headed by the General Directorate for Children, which has already held its first meeting, together with the Directorate-General for Services for Children and the Family, the Save the Children entity and also the Santander Chair of the University of Comillas, has been set up in order always to establish the appropriate framework in which the new norm that brings us here today must be developed. However, despite what we know - that the Government is working on this law - we consider it necessary to accompany this work with the parliamentary mandate that emerges from this initiative this afternoon, because we need a rule that pursues the objective of involving all parties involved, because we need a set of multidisciplinary preventive and child-centred measures, paying particular attention to the family and its particular needs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a crucial issue that must unite us and, above all, we are talking about our future. Therefore, it is well deserved that all political parties on this and on many issues, such as gender-based violence, let us put aside the abstentions and the votes against. We must be able to leave our partisan interests and seek the only common good of all Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate my thanks to Save the Children and the other social entities who are with us today because it is clear that this consensus that we are bringing here today would not have been achieved without their cooperation and work. In short, let us put boys and girls at the centre of politics and guarantee their right to live free from violence, because we cannot forget that today's children will be tomorrow's society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u50	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ferrer Tesoro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. The right of the child not to be subjected to violence is enshrined in the right of every citizen not to be subjected to violence. However, the special vulnerability of children and the resulting consequences require comprehensive action by the State. The initiative we are debating here is a first step. We in the Socialist Group believe that we need to be more ambitious and develop a comprehensive strategy against child violence. Within this strategy, the existence of the national policy on the rights of the child is essential to ensure its protection from all forms of violence because, in addition, the crisis and the cuts are not alien to this phenomenon. The inadequate provision of social services, deterioration of the family environment due to stress and pressure from the difficult economic situation have much to do with the increase in situations of child abuse. In this regard, the set of political, institutional, organizational and normative measures that the State must take to ensure the fulfilment of a right recognized in article 15 of our Constitution, the right to the physical and moral integrity of every person, must have as its backbone the elaboration and adoption of an organic law of comprehensive measures against violence against children. Adopting this law also means bringing the problem to social debate and giving it the treatment that the entity deserves. As happened with the Law on Gender Violence, which involved a before and after in the collective awareness of citizenship in the face of abuse of women, we would like this law that is being promoted from here today to have a similar effect: an awakening of the citizen consciousness in the face of a serious injustice, this time against minors. The concern about this serious social problem of violence against boys and girls is something, as it cannot be otherwise, shared by all groups in this parliamentary arc. This reflected the work of the subcommission that was set up in the X Legislature. It is true that, as a result of all those meetings in which experts from all fields were present, a report was drawn up, the conclusions of which should be taken into account when dealing with this rule. This is a key point to our understanding. However, we must not forget that there were discrepancies on that occasion that could not be saved. All groups strive to reach a common agreement that was finally reflected in the adoption of a report, but there were certain aspects in which this pact was not possible. That is why this is where we must work to reach a consensus. I will highlight the content of only one of them. The spokesman for the People's Party has spoken, not without a single bomb, of the achievements of his Government. I will remind you of what issues the People's Party refused in that report. We believe that poverty and the consequences of the economic crisis have a direct impact on the family environment, on social restructuring, on the stress of lack of work and, thus, on the episodes of violence, and we proposed to integrate a section where public policies against child poverty were developed, in addition to incorporating budgets in the various administrations with sufficient resources to adequately address the needs of children. This was denied by the People's Party. We also wanted to include the promotion of community-based social services, the closest to the citizen, which are essential for the prevention and detection of child victims of violence. The People's Party was also opposed. They also refused, with great belligerence, to incorporate a paragraph concerning the special attention required by all minors in a situation of special vulnerability: children with disabilities, those who are or have been in the custody of protection systems, unaccompanied foreigners, refugees or asylum-seekers, etc. I mention these aspects of disagreement because we are not talking about anecdotes or irrelevant issues and, unfortunately, it is foreseeable that they will be repeated in the processing of the rule that through this non-law proposal we are promoting today. That is why I would like to ask the group that supports the Government, which refused to incorporate in the report the issues that I have just said, to be generous, to spare no effort in addressing a problem of these dimensions. It is not my intention to break this beautiful and exceptional moment in which we all agree on something, but they understand the concern of my group. We cannot afford to miss this opportunity by staying on the surface. The Government should not make a law that was not comprehensive and did not have the resources to be effective. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u52	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u53	One thing is that there is a global agreement on a general objective - to combat violence against children - and another very different to enter into the contents, and that is where we want to see them. If we want the law to be comprehensive, cross-cutting and effective, we will have to talk about, whether they like it or not, whether they like it or not, whether it's economic, social and community services, children in situations of special vulnerability, unaccompanied foreign minors or the need to identify and combat new forms of violence against children. Therefore, we will be alert, we will be watching that this law that is being promoted here today is not left on wet paper but developed as quickly as possible and that takes into account all minors without exception, especially the most vulnerable. If so, they will count on the support of our group. Children in this country deserve to agree to try to make boys and girls grow up in environments free from any kind of violence, healthy and happy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs Belarra Urteaga has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u55	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to send a greeting and welcome the children's organisations that are accompanying us this afternoon, in particular Save the Children, which, as has already been said, has been the organization that has driven and led with greater force the entire process of preparing inputs than one day - let us hope, sooner rather than later - will give rise to this comprehensive law against all forms of violence against children. The Group of the European People's Party - the only group that stuck to the wording of the text that Save the Children presented to us to bring it here to plenary - finally tries to point out the point and bring this initiative to plenary. Undoubtedly, it is striking that calls for consensus were made when, as I said, the People's Party was the only one that stuck to the initial wording proposed to us by civil society organizations. My group, which was the first to incorporate the need for this law into its electoral programme, has promoted and facilitated, to the extent possible, the work of civil society in this regard. We believe that this law should not be promoted in six months or in a year, but that it is necessary to do so immediately and speedily; with speed and budget - which is something that the People's Party often does not like -, taking into account, as has already been said, the recommendations made by the Committee on the Rights of the Child in 2010 when it pointed out that the adoption of a comprehensive law on violence against children similar to that which exists on gender-based violence, which guarantees the reparation of their rights and minimum standards of care in the different autonomous communities, was urgent. And, indeed, it is an indispensable law because, just as we live in a macho and patriarchal society, we live in an 'adult-centric' society that constantly places children out of the focus of our public policies and allows for numerous structural violence against them. This law should take into account all forms of violence against children and pay particular attention to institutional violence, which is the violence perpetrated by public administrations at their various levels against the boys and girls of our country. It is deeply worrying, first of all, that we have very little data on the various violence suffered by children in Spain. They are fragmented, weak data that show to what extent these violence against children has been and continues to be invisible or assumed as normal by society as a whole. It comes so far that Mr. Mariano Rajoy, President of the Government, can afford to give his son a live collage and live politically to tell it without having to resign the next day. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Would it have been the same if the collar had given it to your wife? Indeed, no; it would be absolutely incredible and that is because women have been fighting for decades so that the violence we suffer is not assumed as normal. Of course, this struggle is not over much less, but it is now up to us to wage this battle for the children of our country as well. The data we have are undoubtedly alarming, I quote just a few: six out of ten boys and girls in our country admit that someone has insulted them in the last few months; of them, 22.6% say that it has been frequent and more than a third through mobile or the Internet. Some 3766 minors were victims of domestic abuse, including 2469 girls. This shows us that the violence suffered by boys and girls in our country is through the exclusions that are present in our society such as gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin or social class. It is therefore essential that this law that we promote has an eminently feminist and intersecting approach. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u56	Silence, please, silence. One second, Your Honor. Quiet, please. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u57	As feminist activist Kate Millett said she died on September 6th - and she also serves as a tribute to her - the personal is political. It is still rabidly real that violence is born in the private sphere and it is in it that inequalities are more crudely consolidated. Then, these inequalities pass to the level of the public where power relations acquire the political character that serves for the system of domination to be maintained. He defended him in the 1970s and died seeing how his struggle was sadly in force. This law should focus on children who emigrate alone. In the last periodic review the committee was very concerned about the situation of migrant children in our country, children who first receive when they arrive in Spain is the visit of a police officer, an X-ray and often a medical examination that involves stripping; children who are housed in camping tents, as has happened recently in Tarifa, and who prefer to live on the street to live as we have them. When we talk about violence against children, we have to talk about all violence, not just violence that is close to us or violence that is easier to empathize with. A comprehensive law against all forms of violence against children must first and foremost equalize the rights of all our children. Children suffering from sexual or gender identity must also be at the forefront, with more than half of these boys and girls living today in cases of school harassment. And we cannot forget - at least for my part - the case of Alan, the seventeen-year-old transsexual child who took his life on December 24, 2015 after a long crossroad of harassment, insults and physical harassment. We've developed a law that prevents anyone from having to go back through what happened to Alan. Nor can this law forget the domestic violence that continues to be - much less fashionable - the most difficult to detect and that has a more brutal impact on the development of boys and girls. As the director of ANAR's programmes himself points out, domestic violence is the great forgotten violence despite the fact that more and more cases occur of girls, boys and adolescents who often suffer daily and for more than a year. And of course this law cannot forget boys and girls who are victims of sexist violence or children with functional diversity, who find it so difficult for barriers to access, participation and learning to be removed once and for all from their lives. Finally, although perhaps most important, this law will only effectively combat violence against our children if it is built from a truly participatory approach. We need to deploy two types of spaces: sufficient, adequate and relevant spaces for civil society groups, not only for large children's organizations but also for smaller ones, those who know first hand the reality of children in more vulnerable situations, and of course it is essential to articulate the spaces necessary to be able to listen to the voices of children, not because it is good or visible in the photo but because it is their right. Children have the right to participate in decision-making on issues affecting them and to have their views taken into account. Only among all of us are we going to end - I agree - all forms of violence against children in our country, but that is why we must strive not to leave anyone behind and nobody out. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u58	Mrs Millán Salmerón has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a non-law proposal on a unfortunate reality and it is that the response to child abuse remains partial and is fragmented into several rules, so the tools are not the most appropriate to respond to all forms of child abuse in Spain. According to the Ministry of the Interior, nearly 4,000 minors were victims of domestic abuse in 2015. Violence against minors has been triggered in recent years and was partly due to the economic crisis, which grew by 13.6% in Spain. The main reasons were: Long-term unemployment, not being able to reach the end of the month, not being able to pay the mortgage and evictions. All this led to the passing of many households from the good family environment to a negative environment where discussions and tensions increased and where in many cases children have suffered the consequences. It is also important to say that emotional damage as a result of family violence can persist throughout life, severely limiting the ability of an adult to adjust his/her personal and social well-being. In addition, we must know that what absorbs our mind and what we live during the first seven years of our life will direct and condition the rest of it. In short, we must protect the integrity of children from violence because it is a moral duty and because, ladies and gentlemen, it is our moral duty. It doesn't take many years and months for us all to get to know a case as shocking as Sara's. On July 11, a four-year-old girl entered Campo Grande Hospital in Valladolid for injuries. After receiving the appropriate assistance, she received the hospital discharge and returned home. When it was evaluated the possibility of adopting the guardianship of the little one was already late, and it was late because on Wednesday 2 August the Hospital Clínico de Valladolid receives a four-year-old girl, moved by 112, who presented a picture of cardiorespiratory arrest as a result of a brutal beating allegedly suffered at the hands of her mother's sentimental companion. I think it is clear that the many bureaucratic procedures that exist in our country in the various administrations do not work and we have been warning it from Citizens for a long time. They don't work because in this case they haven't given the answer Sara needed in time. That is why it is important for all political parties to be aware of this situation and to have the firm will to defend the right of minors to be adequately protected. In this respect I have to congratulate this House because we have set aside the interests, put aside the ideologies and finally agreed to urge this non-law proposal, but it is also true that it is precisely for this very reason that I do not understand how the Group of the European People's Party wanted to point out so much when it was agreed by all the parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]] If you wanted to appropriate yourself and put on some medallion, you could have brought a bill directly when you had absolute majority or now, especially in advance of these measures and put them into practice as soon as possible because they are necessary. However, if this is going to serve to ensure that this non-law proposal stays in a drawer, we all give it here as good as you take ownership of this initiative. For all that, we will support this non-legislative proposal to urge the Government, in collaboration with the various autonomous communities, to start work on the adoption of an organic law within the shortest possible time, never exceeding twelve months. But this organic law must be accompanied by a set of effective measures, a set of measures also of great scope and with particular attention to the unification of the work of detection, evaluation and intervention because what has to prevail, ladies and gentlemen, is the protection of minors. I am sure that all of us in this House are aware of the importance of preventing violence against minors and of the need to take appropriate measures to put an end to this scourge as soon as possible and to eradicate violence. Citizens always, will always be next to the most vulnerable children in this case. Therefore, gentlemen of the Government, we look forward to this law because we will not be able to return the life of Sara, but we will be able to protect the life of others. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u61	Madam President, deputies, deputies, good afternoon. Lorca ends the poem "Gacela de la fuida" in the following way: 'How I lose myself in the hearts of some children, / I have lost myself many times by the sea. / Ignorant of the water, I seek / a death of light that consumes me.' We must protect children, understand that boys and girls are subject to the law and that they need special protection, because the figures are terrifying. Every day an average of thirty-seven cases of boys and girls who are potential victims of child abuse are detected. If this doesn't move us, we'll be unable to move and change things. We must move more. We feel very close to the good doing of Save the Children, the soul of this initiative, and of all the entities that work for and for children, although I must confess that I liked the initial writing much more. We're worried about two things. Firstly, the instrument. I know that we are dealing with the oxen that we have, but a non-law proposal is a low-intensity instrument, because the Government pays very little attention to such parliamentary proposals, even approved by the People's Party. We have an important list of many GNPs in the limbo of the unjust in this case. Secondly, we are concerned - as I told Save the Children - about the normative development, if this organic law comes, about the environment that is breathed in relation to the role of the autonomous communities, which have direct competence in this matter. To prepare this intervention I reread the Law of Rights and Opportunities in Childhood and Adolescence, published on May 27, 2010, and above all I know very well Anna Simó, who was the soul of this law. She is currently the first secretary of the Parliament of Catalonia and is accused of wanting to hold democratic debates in a parliament. The last action of Unicef and Save the Children, with their usual perseverance and proverbial sympathy, resulted in a failure, not by you, in the budgets of the State. We were given a detailed battery of real actions that can be carried out in relation to childhood. Of that nothing; at the moment of truth, the majority of this Parliament, which approved this budget, has done nothing. My skepticism will not make me passive, but it is a skepticism fruit of reality. If we want to have a state in Catalonia it is to make good laws, because the 2010 law has been violated by state laws that cannot be deployed and by some reality there are many courts of justice that think that the child is an object of the family. There is still nineteenth-century jurisprudence that prevails in certain decisions that lead children to terrible situations. For the more than 40,000 children who reported being victims last year, half of them for sexual assaults, we agree with you that the time has come to say enough. It won't be for us, always by your side. Equality and republic! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u63	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. First of all, as it could not be otherwise, I welcome and thank you for your presence here today to those entities that have been working for a long time to ensure that the agreement that is being initiated today with this declaration of intent materializes as soon as possible. My party welcomed the creation of the Commission and has been working for years to make the rights of children and adolescents in Catalonia a reality, and it has not only talked about them but has materialized them, protected them and shielded them by conviction, even at times having to reach agreements with other parties with which it allegedly had nothing in common. But for them and for us the protection of children was a priority, and that required great pacts and great efforts. For this reason, the Law on the Rights and Opportunities of Children was adopted in Catalonia in 2010, and for the same reason, the protocol for action against child and adolescent abuse was adopted in Catalonia in 2017. In that we were all parties together, or at least much of them, because children's rights are not and cannot be a political battle. The rights of children should also not be reflected in the intentions of cameras like this. Because of the lack of understanding basically of the two large groups in this House, great consensus and great opportunities have been missed that could have been achieved only with the will of the two main parties in this House to reach agreements. It wasn't like that. An example of this is what we will see later with the Commission seeking a national pact on education, in which because of the lack of agreement it will not be possible to close the Commission when planned. That is why I hope that the good intentions that we have all set out here today will materialise as soon as possible in a law that really defends the rights not only of the children of Catalonia, who already come with the advantage of the laws of Parliament and the Generalitat of Catalonia, but also of all the children of Spain and Europe as soon as possible. In the next 12 months, many things are going to happen in Catalonia and in this House and we do not know where we are going to be. What I can assure you is that my party is going to be up to the last day in this House in favour of that pact and we are going to work to make that pact as best as possible for everyone, that is, with a hue: that in Catalonia we have been working in that direction for seven years and we would not like the Government to use this opportunity once again to commit a robbery, a robbery to the competences of the Generalitat de Catalunya in any matter, especially in those where the Government of the Generalitat has experience and a service accredited for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u64	Thank you very much. Since we have not tabled amendments, we have moved on to position-setting. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u65	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Madam President. First of all, I should like to point out that we will vote in favour of this proposal despite the fact that we consider it to be excessively inconcrete and generic, because if there is a convention in which we can all agree that violence against children cannot be tolerated and that it can only be eliminated through the collective efforts of the population in general and political leaders and Governments in particular. As the text of the proposal itself points out, some progress was made in 2015 in the fight against violence against children in the form of a substantial change in existing legislation. Organic Law 8/2015 and Law 26/2015, amending the system of protection, marked a substantial change in the protection of children and, being interesting and fortunate, they had as a problem not sufficiently implemented and not yet advanced. The proposal literally says that the response to violence against children remains very fragmented and partial, and that is absolutely true, with great differences in criteria, resources and procedures, because the few state statistics tell us that there is a wide variety of ways to understand and address child abuse. In that regard, the non-legislative proposal could have been more interesting if it had been more concrete and bolder in specifying those principles and measures according to which this House urges the Government to address this task. Even - let me say this - she has been somewhat bold at the only point where she should not be, which is in advancing the organic nature of the law, since we do not yet know whether the reservation referred to in article 81 of the Spanish Constitution will be able to be applied. We therefore believe that it would have been useful to make an effort to develop the initiative by giving concrete expression to the areas of this comprehensive action which we are calling for to be considered. Of course, this can be a great opportunity to get all systems and agents involved in the prevention of child abuse situations and we should take into account other examples and suggestions already known. Thus, for example, Unicef advanced in a 2014 report what would be in his view those measures that should include any comprehensive treatment of violence prevention. He merely pointed out that parents and family caregivers should be supported, children and adolescents should be given the necessary knowledge and attitudes to deal with and resolve risk situations and challenges without resorting to violence, to change attitudes and social norms that promoted violence and discrimination, to promote and support services for children, to implement laws and policies that protected children - that is, to give a clear message to society in general that violence and, in particular, violence against children was unacceptable and would be punished - and essentially to acquire knowledge about violence in order to apply the necessary consequences on that basis of knowledge. We would also like to contribute some reflections that we have made as a group, because we believe that it is also very necessary and urgent to articulate good systems of collaboration with the school and health fields mainly, so that situations of unprotection can be dealt with in an early and effective way. And, of course, it must be borne in mind that health and education are autonomous competences, which must also mean full respect for these competences and the need for dialogue with different territorial authorities. For its part, child protection is usually delayed and prevention and early care need to be developed. This is a point we want to focus on, because protecting children is the task of society as a whole, not just of social services, so putting responsibilities on other systems and actors can be not only positive but necessary. The text of the proposal already points in that direction, and that is why it must be given its value. In addition, such action should address, develop and deploy actions to protect the family in a dual area: the protection of children from the point of view of the family, establishing certain educational measures within that family area, but it should also be borne in mind that child protection is often associated with the lack of resources of the family unit. Lack of resources, lack of network and lack of alternatives lead to child abuse not only because of lack of opportunities and a future, but also because the stress situation caused by a shortage of resources in a family often has a direct impact on the upbringing of minors. In this area we are far from European standards and this absence has a direct impact on the exercise of children's rights. In short, this is a good opportunity to address the situation, to develop measures and to assign different actors responsibilities. Let us hope that this will be done, but we understand that a message is also sent from this House to the Government not only in the sense of being able to draft this law, but also in the sense of being able to do so with defined criteria, with specific areas and with specific obligations. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u66	Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE SENTENCES AGAINST THE PRESIDENT OF THE GENERALITY OF CATALUNIA LLUIS COMPANYS AND OTHER DECIDED BY THE COURTS OF THE OPINION. [[File number 162/000449]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u67	We then proceed to the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the rulings against the president of the Generalitat de Catalunya Lluís Companies and others issued by the dictatorship's courts. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Batet Lamaña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main objectives of the parliamentary group I represent, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as well as of the various socialist governments in Spain, has been and is the dignification of democracy, the dignification of democracy through the dignification of its citizens and its citizens. That has made all the conquests in rights, all the conquests in freedoms, all the conquests in welfare, in memory, in recognition or in reparation came precisely from the hands of socialist governments. [[Applauds]] A good example of this and on the subject we are dealing with today is Law 52/2007 of 26 December, which recognizes and expands rights and establishes measures for those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship, the so-called Historical Memory Law. Why this non-law proposal today? Why did the Socialist Parliamentary Group register and bring this debate to the House today? First, because those who promoted and made possible that law, Law 52/2007, known as the Historical Memory Law, we have an obligation to recognize ten years after its adoption that the advance that constituted the declaration of illegitimacy of the Francoist courts, their convictions and sanctions has not been enough to close a human and social wound in our country. Secondly, because closing this wound of our past is an obligation for socialists, an obligation that we have all Spaniards who aspire to a more prosperous future in peace and coexistence, without resentment, but without forgetting. Here there should be no ideological or partisan differences, because the figure of the very honorable president of the Generalitat, Lluís Companies i Jover, and his execution in the castle of Montjuic is a symbol in which we can feel represented all, just as so many others who suffered their same fate are. Thirdly, because the decree of the Attorney General of the State of 2010 is unequivocal when he tells us about the sentences that are non-existent and null and void without any appearance of legality or validity at present, decree of the Attorney General of the State of 2010. And fourthly, because last June 29th the Parliament of Catalonia, unanimously of all political forces, declared illegal the political courts of Francoism and proclaimed the nullity of the sentences and rulings ordered by them. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, why not repeat this afternoon and in this Chamber a similar expression of unity, commitment and generosity? We repeat today that unanimity with a solemn declaration by this House - of the highest expression of popular sovereignty - of the nullity of those sentences. True, the illegitimacy of a court or a decision is the most severe trial to which they can be subjected, and that is precisely what we adopted in Law 52/2007. It is true that the declaration of nullity of judgements was considered included in Law 52/2007, as also stated by the State Attorney General, because declaring that something is illegitimate is also declaring it null and void, it is as if it did not exist, as if we had expelled it from the democratic system. Today a court can declare a law void, cannot declare it illegitimate. Therefore, we went further with the Historical Memory Law talking about that illegitimacy. It is also true, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that part of Spanish society - victims, associations representing these victims or memorial organizations - has continued to call on this House, on popular sovereignty, to declare these unjust and illegitimate sentences null and void. Let us recognize this reality and give it an answer, without resentment, without hatred, but without forgetting, to continue conquering the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs Batet. In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Xuclà i Costa is speaking first of all by the Joint Parliamentary Group - and with this turn he will also fix a position -.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ten years of the Historical Memory Act. At that time we participated - I was one of the rapporteurs of my parliamentary group - in the Historical Memory Act of 2007. Ten years have passed and it is always good to recognize what has gone well but also mistakes. Article 3 of the current wording of the Historical Memory Act is a bad resolution of what we seek. We consider the declaration of the illegitimacy of the courts and agree that this declaration of illegitimity would lead to the ordinary courts declaring the specific nullity of the judgments. This declaration of illegitimacy only led to this decree of the State Attorney General and did not produce the legal effect of declaring the nullity of the specific sentences, which was what the families of the victims of the Civil War and Francoism wanted. Therefore, before summer we present a proposal for a law amending the Historical Memory Act to revise section 3 of that law. I hope that in the future we will be able to discuss and build majorities of consensus to recognize what the spokesman of the proposing group, Mrs Batet, has insinuated, that we had to go a step further. Well, going a step further - in addition to presenting, discussing and voting non-law proposals on Tuesday afternoon - is to face the timely legislative reform of the Historical Memory Act. In this sense, our amendment, which sets out the text of what would have to be the amendment of Article 3 of the Historical Memory Act and recognises that those who, in the parliamentary debate ten years ago, said that we had to go through the way that the German Parliament used to resolve it, which is the declaration of the nullity of judgments by Parliament. We also argue that the ruling of President Companies, the assassination of President Companies, but also of all the other victims of the Civil War and Francoism must be declared null and void. In this regard, Mrs Batet, I invite you to accept our amendment, as it guides the need to build a consensus and a majority for the reform of the Historical Memory Act. Finally, you have already recalled that a few months ago in the Parliament of Catalonia a resolution was adopted unanimously on the nullity of sentences handed down for unjust reasons for political and ideological reasons, for ideological persecution or for religious discrimination during the Civil War and Francoism. It was adopted unanimously, i.e. with the votes of the representatives of the People's Party in the Parliament of Catalonia and with the votes of the representatives of Citizens. That is why I am calling for consistency between that issue already voted on - certainly in another House - and the possible outcome of this afternoon's vote. It seems to us that this non-legislative proposal is insufficient. I remember that at the time the secretary general of the Socialist Party announced this non-law proposal as a gesture towards Catalonia. We already appreciate this gesture, but at the present political moment, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just this gesture; it is something deeper, it is something much deeper what we should have discussed and faced in the past; dialogue and the invocation of dialogue is always open and also now. Welcome to this initiative. I hope you will accept the amendment, which I believe is in line with this reform of the Historical Memory Act that we have to build and, in any case, we, for consistency, if we are in favour of the part, will be in favour of the whole; and we are in favour of the part, but I hope that we can also face the whole thing. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to denounce, with the utmost respect that Mrs Meritxell Batet deserves, the hypocrisy and cynicism of the Socialist Parliamentary Group maintained over time. And with regard to Lluís Companies, I must tell you that they have arrived late; they committed themselves in 2004, but they have had to spend thirteen years - many, I recognize - for the Parliament of Catalonia to pass a law promoted by Junts pel Yes and Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, to which you have joined, voted yes, that declares illegal the courts, councils of war, founded in Catalonia, and therefore null and void the sentences. By the way, a law that reaches 65,590 people; that is, 65,590 Catalan citizens, Spanish, who were tried in Catalan territory and who are now being released by the Government of Catalonia with the certificate of full invalidity. Indeed, since Catalonia we have not been able to annul the sentences of the war councils held outside Catalonia or, for example, the TOP sentences, since he resided in Madrid. For years, therefore, this was one of the causes for which the Republicans stayed outside the law and voted not to. The debate was that you believed that the declaration of illegitimacy with regard to the courts implied that the sentences could be completely annulled, and that was not the case. In fact, all citizens who during these years have resorted to justice under the Historical Memory Act have encountered military courts. Look, there is even a sentence of a citizen who called for his nullity - in a war council that led his father to die shot - in which the military court tells him: in the opinion of this chamber, this court cannot go beyond what the law provides. Moreover, even the judge says: if the amendment of the Republican Left had been approved and what Esquerra Republicana and Izquierda Unita wanted, then we would be willing to annul the sentence, but as the amendment of Esquerra Republicana - says the judge - was not admitted and the law remained as it remained, we judges cannot be asked to do what does not order the law. So, for years, we have presented ten or twelve times here in this Parliament the initiative to amend the Memory Act of 2007, and we have been told that no on all occasions. You and we knew what we were talking about; if not, why for so many years, as a result of our initiatives, have you always told us no? Even the last of comrade Domènech, who presented a few months ago and which was discussed together, in which you said: no, no and no; we will not accept nullity to the extent that we do not accept that the courts were illegal. Where are we now? For we are in that we say to you: in the same way that the Government of Catalonia, together with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, promoted this law, a law in Catalonia, to which you have joined, we must make a law here too. And if you don't want to make an ad hoc law, amend section 3 of the Memory Act. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment which says that the title of Article 3 should say nullity rather than illegitimacy, and Article 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 should also be amended: where it makes illegitimacy it has to make illegal and where it releases a certificate of illegitimacy it has to make nullity of its own right, i.e. declare them null. If you do this, we will understand that you want to do the same thing you did in Catalonia; if you do not accept our amendment, it is that you intend to deceive us. I'm done with the president. It hurts me a lot as a Republican the role that you have developed for your victims - it hurts me, but you are your victims -, what we do not allow you to manipulate our victims. The victims of the Republican Left are not going to be manipulated and we will remain faithful to what we discussed and postulated in 2007. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Villegas Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are presented with a non-legislative proposal to look back once again, to talk about the years 1939 and 1940. These are certainly not my group's priorities, but they are also important issues and we are going to discuss the Socialist Group's proposal today. And I say once again, because, as Mr Tardà recalled, this is an issue that has already been discussed in this House, in the Commission, in various areas. The proposer appealed to consensus. Well, we believe that there is a meeting point which is precisely the Law of Historical Memory, the law which we have so often heard the Socialist Members claim. This Law on Historical Memory establishes in its article 3 the illegitimacy of the courts and jurors created to suppress political dissent during Francoism and, therefore, also declares the illegitimity of its resolutions. Moreover, article 4 regulates the declaration of reparation and recognition of those who are victims of these repressive actions. We believe that this could be a meeting point, a consensus point for all those democrats who certainly reject Francoism, Francoism and we believe that the victims of repression should be reinstated, and in that regard we have tabled an amendment to that consensus which we hope can be accepted. As I said, this is an issue that has already been dealt with on several occasions, in this House and also in the Commission. The last one during a session of the Constitutional Commission in which I was present and in which the representative of the Socialist Party, speaking on this same subject - of the nullity of these sentences - said: It is true that the law declares unjust and illegitimate and expels that sentence - it referred to the ruling of the President Companies - and all the sentences like that of our legal system, but to Mr Tardà and Mr Domènech - who were the ones who defended the proposal at that time - is not enough for them and they want us to annul a death sentence that has already been carried out. With what effect? I can fully understand that on that day the death of President Companies was unjust and illegitimate - which we share - but what does it mean that the death of President Companies was null? For that same reflection, which was made at the time by the Socialist Party's deputy, Mr Torres Mora, leads us to present this amendment, seeking consensus in the text of the Historical Memory Act, which, I insist, declares the illegitimacy of the courts and their resolutions. The same intervention in that Commission ended with the following sentences - and I insist that they are not my sentences but of a socialist deputy - addressing the proponents: They have confused being republican with being anti-monarchic, being left-wing with being radical, being democratic with being populist, being patriotic with being nationalist and being Catalan with being anti-Spanish. Let us hope that the other parties - this refers to Podemos and Esquerra Republicana - in this House do not fall also by the slope of these confusions. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u75	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Domènech Sampere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u76	Good afternoon. The spokesman for Citizens is right about what the representative of the Socialist Party said in the Constitutional Commission, but I would like to remind you that both the People's Party and citizens in their parliamentary groups in the Parliament of Catalonia declared - because it was unanimously approved in the Parliament of Catalonia - that the Francoist courts were radically illegal and the sentences should be null and void. I am saying this because the contradiction is the same for you or between your parliamentary groups in Catalonia and those here. [[Applauds]] This proposal that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has brought to us causes us very strong feelings, first of all because it is true, there is some truth in what the representative of Citizens said, but not only did the Socialist representative say this, he said more things. [[He said that declaring the sentence of Lluís Companies null and void, the spirit of national reconciliation was being attacked. And he didn't just say this, he said more things. He said the spirit of national reconciliation led us to have to apologize to General Francisco Franco.]] 1 I don't know if it's a bad afternoon, which has any, but it was absolutely amazing and had nothing to do with the recovery and dignity of historical memory. Beyond this, it is true that Joan Tardà has been asking for years, years and years for the nullity of the sentence of Lluís Companies in this Congress of Deputies, and that only at this moment, when we are faced with the main crisis of relations between Catalonia and the Spanish State, some finally come up with the nullity of the sentence, tells us little about the dignity of memory and tells us too much about the use sometimes of that same memory. But there's one step here and we value it as important. With this GNP which the Socialist Group is presenting for the first time here, we are talking about the radical nullity of a sentence. That step is not a small step, especially in view of all the statements and positions previously taken by the PSOE on this issue. It won't do us any good with this step. If there is consistency, if there is a change in this, it does not apply only to a GNP presented at this time. That will have to be verified when we present the nullity of all the sentences that have occurred against the victims of Francoism in this country. [[Applauds]] I believe that we are at such critical moments that we can only afford humility and not try to constantly claim our heritage. Each one will have his conquests and what to celebrate, but there is no need to constantly claim the heritage at this moment we are living. [[The lady]] Humility, because you claim the Historical Memory Law as one of the great achievements for memory, but we also have the report of the UN Special Rapporteur for Human Rights of 2014 that, speaking of this, talking about the memory policies in Spain - and it was not the deputy Tardà nor was it the deputy Domènech -, said something so brutal - I repeat, in 2014 - as that never established a state policy in the matter of truth, that there is no official information or mechanisms for clarifying the truth. That Law on Historical Memory is therefore clearly insufficient and, of course, we need to go much further for reparation, truth and justice. In this country, for every Italian who was shot in times of war, in Spain a thousand citizens were shot; for every German who in times of peace was imprisoned in concentration camps, in this country thirty were imprisoned. One of the worst historical experiences of Nazi-fascism throughout Europe has been lived in this country, and that requires much more courage than we have lived so far. [[Applauds]] We will declare radically null the sentence to President Lluís Companys not to commemorate any death, but to celebrate life; the life of that magnificent labor lawyer of workers who was Lluís Companys; the life of a governor of the City of Barcelona who had the daring to declare the republic; the life of a trade unionist who founded the Union of Rabassaires; the life of a president of the Generalitat, who, if he were alive at this time, I believe would not ask for the recognition of his person, but for the recognition of his country. [[pronounce words in Catalan]] If this Congress wants to do something truly worthy of Lluís Companies, listen to the Catalan people's desire at once. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]] 1 Words withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions at the request of Mr Torres Mora, having regard to the Journal of Sessions of the Constitutional Commission, with the consent of Mr Domènech Sampere.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u77	Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u78	Thank you very much, President. With regard to the non-law proposal on the sentence against the President of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Lluís Companies, and others handed down by the courts of the Franco dictatorship for political, ideological and religious reasons such as the war councils, the courts of political responsibility, the court of repression of Freemasonry and Communism, and the courts of public order, I would like to state that we will support PNL because it is a step in the right direction but not the definitive one. And GNP is a step in the right direction because, as has already been said, it introduces the expression 'nullity' with regard to these courts and their rulings, which is an advance on the Historical Memory Act, which only speaks - as has been said - of illegitimacy. But the GNP does not change anything in legal terms or urges the Government to do so; it is a mere declaration without legal consequences for those affected: the reprisals during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship. The Historical Memory Act does not change anything, in the sense that its declarations of reparation and recognition to those who suffered from the decisions of these franchising courts still do not constitute a legal title for the recognition of State or any public administration's patrimonial responsibility, nor do they give rise to compensation or compensation of an economic or professional nature to the victims, as stated in the Act itself. Nor are we saying that the Historical Memory Act has not served anything, much less, although its execution is clearly better, especially in the withdrawal of Francoist symbolism and in the investigation, exhumation and identification of victims of the Civil War and the Dictatorship in pits and in public promotional action, which is not given in this respect and which should be given by the institutions of the State, the Government of the State, as ordered by its article 12. It is also possible to improve the Memory Law not only in its application, as we said, but also in the remedying of its defects, such as the amendment of its article 3 in the sense proposed in the amendment of the Republican Left, in the proposed law announced to us by the Democratic Party of Catalonia and in the very sense expressed by Mr Domènech, declaring ex lege the nullity of the Francoist courts and their resolutions, which would make it possible to solve one of the great unresolved problems of the decisions of those courts. Obviously, no one will be reinstated in his life having avoided his sufferings, but in the expoliation, which is not expropriation, of his property at the hands of those courts and especially by the courts of political responsibility. Political parties and trade unions have been partially repaired, but not individual legal persons retaliated. As Mr Domènech also reminded us in the Constitutional Commission, the transfers of private property of reprisals to the State during the war and the dictatorship were equivalent to that produced by the Mendizábal reform with its de-amortization of property in the hands of religious entities. This has not yet been repaired, nor in the GNP we are discussing today, although it is taking a step, as I said, in the right direction. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u79	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Sánchez-Camacho Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. For the moment that we are living with the Catalans and all the Spanish, I understand that this debate today is no longer a debate. I would like to begin by saying to Mrs Batet, proposer of the initiative, that if the Socialist Party has contributed to the achievement of many rights, we have also done so by millions of Spaniards from all the political parties in this country so that the agreement pact is in force today; and I say this to you from the utmost respect, that you know you have it. I want to make several reflections. I believe that this is not a proposal of law anymore, it is a proposal in which one wants to go one step beyond the recognition of what is laid down in Law 52/2007, of historical memory. I would like to recall here that Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 recognize the rights of recognition and reparation of all those who suffered violence, persecution, murder and death on ideological and political grounds in the Civil War and in the dictatorship, which have been recognized as individual rights and also family recognition. In addition, declarations of reparation have been approved, which you know very well that they are being made by this Government. But, Your Honor, here you yourself have said that recognizing it illegitimate also gives the consequence of nullity. We consider protected by Law 52/2007 and the recognition of each and every one of these illegal sentences and the recognition of the illegitimacy of all those courts that acted during the Civil War and Francoism. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to take a second look at what we are seeing. I am deeply autonomous, I have been a politician for years - not as many as it seems - but we are at a time of history when some have wanted to stretch the seams of our constitutionalism, they have wanted to stretch the seams of our State from the autonomy from institutional loyalty, and that is why I see myself in the obligation here today to say, also under the Historical Memory Law, Mrs Batet and ladies and gentlemen, that for us Mr Companies is not a symbol, it is not. He was not the president of all Catalans. And I have the courage and the courage to come here and say what is not politically correct, because I am tired as a Catalan and Spanish that history is distorted and the present and future of my country is distorted. [[Applauds]] On 14 April 1931 Mr Companies, ladies and gentlemen, came before a monarchy mayor, Mr Joan Güell, to seize the municipal council and declare the republic. On 6 October he gave a coup d'état to the constitutional legality of the Republic at that time, which you do not seem to recognize, and was convicted by the Constitutional Guarantee Court of the Republic, not by the subsequent court of the Franco regime or by subsequent courts, not, not by the court of the Republic, and was pardoned. You know what some people used to say? That Mr. Companys was in his youth deeply anti-Catalanist, that on October 6th gave the same coup d'état that the military gave in the 36th, but with a difference: that he was pardoned and then he in the 36th did not pardon the coup. You know who said that? Not this lordship, not this deputy, Francesc Cambó said. You read the correspondents and you see the contemporaries. Do you read, Mr Domènech, to Miquel Badia, to Reverter, do you read to Aiguader, read to all of them, because you, Mr Domènech, and those of the new policy have come here to recognize the rights of the victims of Francoism, but what about the rights of the victims of the forty-six Czechs in Barcelona, of the anti-fascist committees that Mr Company signed in the decree of 26 July? That's history. And it says in Article 1 of the Historical Memory Act that we must promote democratic values and really explain what happened in the Civil War and in the dictatorship. If you want to consider martyring Mr. Companies, of course we are not going to do it, we are not going to recognize martyring Mr. Companies, but we do recognize the illegitimacy and injustice, the lack of guarantees that condemned him to his death. It was an unjust death, we recognize it, but not a symbol for our country. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, today, after the Diada de la disobedience, we are talking here about seventy-seven years ago when the rights of Catalan deputies are being violated today, when the Constitution is being violated, the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy is being violated, the Constitutional Guarantees Decree is being violated, the lawyers' report is being violated, the legitimate mayors in Catalonia are being pressured and intimidated, are we talking about democracy today? Not in my name, not in the name of the People's Party, not in the name of the millions and millions of Spanish Democrats we want to decide, yes, but in democracy, with the law, with the Constitution and all the Spaniards. That's what we want and that's what I wanted to tell you here today. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u81	I ask Mrs Batet Lamaña whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u82	Yes, we will accept through a compromise the amendment of Unidad Podemos, which we will now bring to all groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u83	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u84	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the development and implementation of the European Youth Guarantee Initiative. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u85	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon or good night, whatever it is. Let's look back and make a little chronology of where this Youth Guarantee comes from. As of April 2013, the austerity policies, cuts and labour reforms of the different European governments were at full performance and unemployment and precariousness were rampant, as they continue to do, for Europe, especially for the south. And youth unemployment rates rose to unacceptable and intractable limits that put at risk social cohesion and the future of the European Union itself in the short and medium term. As a result of pressure from civil society, the Youth Guarantee initiative is launched on the basis of a recommendation from the Council of Europe to establish a battery of measures to ensure that all young people under 25 years of age, subsequently expanded to 30 years of age, who lose their jobs or who do not find them at the end of their studies, i.e. that they do not study or work, receive a job offer of quality continuing education or training within four months. In this context, Brussels drew up the budget for this plan, which, in collaboration with the European Social Fund, was allocated EUR 6 billion. Of this budget planning, Spain was allocated the largest amount, with an amount of more than €1.8 billion, almost a third of all money for Europe in response to our high youth unemployment rate, which at the time was more than 50%. The implementation of the system was a step from the beginning, establishing conditions of access to registration too restrictive, so that the participation of young people was very limited. According to the evaluation report of the Youth Guarantee, country by country, published by the European Commission itself in March this year, in Spain only 10.7% of the young potential beneficiaries of this plan had been registered in this file in the first two years of the measure. The chapuza in the implementation of the Youth Guarantee in Spain was partially modified first by Law 25/2015 and then by Royal Decree-Law 6/2016, which helped to boost automatic registration and made the requirements more flexible. With the entry into force of this rule, the Government appears to have resolved one of the initial strands by facilitating the registration of the Youth Guarantee Plan. What the People's Party Government has not explained are the reasons why it took more than three years to facilitate young people's access to the benefits of the Youth Guarantee, despite having at its disposal the largest budget of the whole European Union under the Social Fund, as I said before, EUR 18 billion, and to suffer the second highest youth unemployment rate in the whole European Union. We firmly believe that hundreds of thousands of young people deserve an explanation. We have said that on many occasions, public policies cannot be developed in any field without evaluating, analysing and studying with rigorous data the degree of fulfilment of the goals set and the real effects on people's lives. Trade unions and youth associations report that they have not been able to make any kind of proposals because the Government does not provide information that reflects the quantitative and qualitative impact of the actions carried out neither in the mediation nor in the training and improvement of employability nor in the promotion of employment integration or in the support of entrepreneurship, which are integrated, at least theoretically, in our Youth Guarantee system. But this is not only said by civil society, the European Commission itself, in its March report this year, finds it impossible to assess the impact on employment of the training and mediation activities carried out in our country because the Government has not provided the necessary data. The same report shows that only 47.5% of registered young people had received some performance from those covered by the scheme within four months of registration and only 37.7% were working or carrying out professional studies or practices at the end of the six months following receipt of the benefits of the Youth Guarantee. In short, inefficiency and precariousness. These demolishing data, coupled with the late facilitation of the registration of young people in the system, demonstrate the remarkable failure of the Spanish Government in the hands of the People's Party in implementing the Youth Guarantee initiative in our country. We consider it essential that, at least on this occasion, the Government prepare a study on the impact of the various actions provided for by the Youth Guarantee system to promote the creation of stable and quality employment for young people, collect and make public the data indicative of the effectiveness of each of the measures and call for social dialogue within the Delegated Monitoring and Evaluation Commission of the System prior to adopting any type of legislative measure, any regulatory change in this area. We do not abandon the constructive spirit in this initiative that we had with the interpellation to the minister before summer. We have the highest youth unemployment rate in the OECD and the second highest in the European Union. Hundreds of thousands of young people are in a situation that pushes them into exile or exclusion. In our neighborhoods and in our villages they know it well. We are also clear that the suffering caused by our labour market is not solved by the Youth Guarantee alone. We must repeal labour reforms and change the productive model, but we know that the Youth Guarantee can bring some improvement to people's lives and that is why we are here. To despise money from Europe and to waste it on perpetuating precarious jobs and wages of misery do not count on us; but to use European funds with criteria, rigour and dialogue, to legislate together with civil society and to ensure a future worthy of our young people, based on training and decent jobs, we are at their full disposal. Get us the glove. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u86	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca intervenes by the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Seven and a half months ago, the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies validated a royal decree-law that was endorsed by a broad consensus with social actors and autonomous communities to give greater impetus to the development of the Youth Guarantee. The Forum vote was then used to support the relaunch and increase of employment and training opportunities for many young people. I recalled at that time that Asturias is precisely one of the communities where unemployment among the youngest had been most virulent, which continues today to be a reality according to the successive monthly data of unemployment, which, having been good in the whole of Spain, continue to underline the accused and negative divergence of Asturias. However, the data have been accrediting the correctness of the measures envisaged in that validation on the Youth Guarantee. That is why a motion which, trying something so important for the labour market and labour integration, substantially proposes that the Government should concentrate on collecting and analysing an endless amount of data on completed exercises, something that is being done on the other hand. In fact, there is coordination of actions and follow-up within the framework of the Sectoral Conference on Employment and Labour Affairs through a delegated Monitoring and Evaluation Commission, in which each of the Autonomous Communities and the General Administration of the State are involved. Finally, I would like to point out that the implementation and development of the Youth Guarantee are subject to the proper budgetary use of funds from the Youth Employment Initiative and the European Social Fund. This motion by the United Parliamentary Group We can go a long way on this conditionality and does not highlight the recommendations that the European Council made to Spain last May, in particular to extend the eligibility criteria of the Youth Guarantee and to strengthen individual support for the long-term unemployed. That is why he has tabled an amendment to amend the important recommendation of the European Council in four points. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canadés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u89	Madam President, I will speak from the seat. We share the content of Mr Rodríguez's reflection, much of the content of his motion; in fact, the amendment we are presenting complements some of the considerations he makes. In this regard, I would like to highlight two issues, which I would like to share with Mr Rodríguez. Firstly, the concern that the economic effort that the European Union has transferred to Spain in this area is being wasted. The European Commission's report is indicative of the clear risk that, as the Spanish State leading youth unemployment in the context of the European Union, it will have to return resources to it. The second concern, which I think is even more important, is that the issues linked to youth unemployment are very structural and if all the policies that serve to take advantage of these resources become a new patch that perhaps answers in the short term but does not solve the bottlenecks that explain the challenge of youth unemployment, we will have managed for a relatively short period of time a significant amount of resources, but we will not have solved any of the questions that explain the challenge of youth unemployment, which lie not so much in the need to improve or reduce recruitment as in facilitating the transition from the training system to the labour market and in generating second chances for young people who do not finish well, in time and form, their training journey. The resources of the Youth Guarantee administered by the General Administration of the State today are not allocated to this issue. In this respect, we must once again denounce that more than 50% of the resources of the Youth Guarantee are managed by the State, not the autonomous communities, which are competent in this area. I have to say that the Generalitat, in the part it manages, is receiving recognition from the European Commission: less centralized spending, more capacity to decentralise and respond to substantive issues if we want to ensure that the resources of the European Union are useful in the face of the challenge of youth unemployment. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u91	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, young people are in danger. With almost 40% youth unemployment in the Spanish State, with an elite education, with precarious and temporary contracts, without being able to emancipate ourselves, young people are in danger, and this government cares about a curse. [[A Member of Parliament: Hala!]] Yeah, he gives a shit. It is the State with the most budget allocation in the European Union for Youth Guarantee and since 2013 they have done virtually nothing. We do not say this, says Europe, the very Europe that they quickly pay attention to when it comes to making social cuts and rescuing banks, but when it comes to giving an oxygen ball to an entire generation then no case to Europe. Young people want to live in dignity, but you do not leave us, you fail to fulfil your government responsibility to solve this problem, you keep us in precariousness. We are in danger and, as I have already said, it gives them absolutely the same. We're sick of macroeconomic figures. In our daily life the crisis has not ended, and you continue to think from your offices that young people are ninis, that we like to stay in the family nest until the thirty or that we emigrate by adventurous spirit. And they're wrong, we're really in danger. To top it off, the minister talks about the spring of employment. But if the flowers that grow this spring rip them out and give them to the richest, if instead of benefiting young people what they do is rip the flowers out and give them to the most powerful people... We're in danger. Young people are really in danger. Our present and our future are at stake. We're in danger and we need a chance and we need it to be already.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council adopted the recommendation called Youth Guarantee on 22 April 2013 and in this context all the States committed themselves to ensuring that young people have a training or employment offer within four months of completing their studies or being unemployed. Spain joined this initiative and started implementing it in 2014, with 80% of the Youth Guarantee actions that have been funded being funded through this European Youth Employment Initiative and having had an initial allocation of 943 million over the period 2014-2018. Well, the truth is that unfortunately it is already clear, as I have heard before, that, despite the proportionally higher economic strength of the whole of the European Union, that purpose has not achieved any success or the desired results. Today, all experts call the outcome of this initiative ineffective, not because of the measures proposed but because of their management. I say to the honourable Member that he has preceded me in the use of the word which he qualifies as such until the European Commission. That failure is attributed to many causes. In principle, it was mainly attributed to two issues: the data from the nini were not taken into account until July 2014 and the age bracket was not extended until 2015 so that these young people between the ages of 25 and 29 could have access to these aids, which led to 390,000 new applicants joining this initiative. The ineffectiveness of these measures shows the statistics, which indicate that the percentage of young people who, after six months of being registered, have found employment or an employment-oriented formative action is reduced to only 38% of those registered, whereas at European level in the case of Irish people it is 71% or 68% of Italians. This is said by the European Commission itself, which attributes this inefficiency to the impossibility of attracting young people, on the one hand, because of the low visibility of advertising campaigns and, on the other, because of the limited capacity of public employment services to reach young people. It is another 2016 report that points this out. This is demonstrated by the fact that in April 2016 only 25% of young people were aware of the existence of this initiative compared to 51% of the European average. The same European Commission report points out that previous experiences in other countries conclude that the success of the Youth Guarantee is based on the effective functioning of public employment services at local level. This is true of what Mr Campuzano has pointed out in the sense that it is only half of these funds that are being managed by the state services, when there is also an area of management by the autonomous communities which, however, has proved to be notoriously more effective than that carried out by the state services. Therefore, in order to make the system more effective, it would be necessary to facilitate the participation of other lower-level territorial entities, as they are already doing, but to a greater extent. To the extent that these consequences have been given, it is reasonable for the initiative put forward by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, to which we join, because it is necessary to know the answer to the questions it raises regarding the effectiveness of these measures. Yes, we must also draw attention to some issues that do not take the initiative into account. For example, the fact that the philosophy of active employment policies is aimed only at pointing out an amount of EUR 430, as the Minister of Employment mentioned a few days ago, seems to be weak or insufficient if it is not linked to the traceability of training in employment, which in our view should be part of what we call employment policy and not social aid. I also draw attention to the silence on the legal regime for aid. A few days ago, in her appearance, the Minister of Employment asked us for complicity and tolerance for the extension of the Preparation Plan and we told her that we wanted the assistance from the Preparation Plan to be compatible with other types of aid. It turns out that the situation in the area of the Youth Guarantee can be given that the aid of EUR 430 that young people can receive may be incompatible with the aid that their parents may be receiving as a result of the Plan, which is going to mean a kind of infernal circle starting from the shortage of resources. That is why I should finally like to point out that we have tabled an amendment taking account of these two issues - that is, the recognition of the scope of the autonomous communities' capacity to act and the possibility of linking any such aid to the traceability or participation of those enrolled in training itineraries - which we hope will be accepted by the proponents of the measure because we believe that this would be more effective. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u94	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. The story of the Youth Guarantee is really sad. In 2013, at the height of the social crisis we were experiencing, Brussels made EUR 6 billion available to European citizens and governments to respond to the social urgency of young people, who, particularly in southern Europe, suffered the most from the consequences of the crisis. Well, of that €6 billion, 1800 - almost a third - were dedicated to Spain, because it happens that Spain had almost one third of the total unemployed under the age of 30 in 2013 and therefore had this funding. A few months ago, in April this year, the European Commission made its assessment report and concluded that, despite the human tragedy that we have had, despite breaking Europe's record in youth unemployment, in Spain we had not been able to use, to launch one out of every ten potential beneficiaries of this aid. Therefore, we have basically wasted, the government has wasted - it is a pity that there is no one here to be able to discuss it - hundreds of millions of euros that could have been translated into real opportunities for a broken generation of young people. As I say, this data is particularly dramatic in a country that basically has an establishment mounted against youth. We have a labour market that systematically discriminates against young people; we have a record of dropping out of school, among other things because we suffered a real estate boom, which was a bit like our Dutch disease, and a very significant part of our young people went to put bricks instead of investing in education. And despite the economic recovery we have been unable to offer a different work model, a model of opportunities for young people simply to have access, as some have done in the past, to job stability and decent opportunities for a European country. Those who have work, who are now a little over half of the under 30s, live in absolute precariousness with klinex contracts that start on Friday and end on Monday. We need to reformulate the root model in both labour relations and training - we need to revolutionize it - and that is where we are in Citizens, so in the coming months many initiatives will come in this direction. I'm going back to the Youth Guarantee. We can come up with an initiative with which - and I hope it will not be a precedent - I very much agree on many things; I think it makes a good diagnosis, asks the government to explain what it has done with all that money for so long, from 2013 to 2017, when so many millions of euros have been thrown away. This seems reasonable to me - I have already passed it on to the spokesman of Podemos - but I would like to - and I think that in this sense they have done the job well - to work a little more because when we came in and decided to agree with the government and demand conditions we did it among other things to use the money of the Youth Guarantee, which was being wasted in bulk. And we force the government to sign something that, by the way, the Socialist Party also signed in its investiture agreement - negotiations in which I too have been - to implement a wage supplement, which everyone knows as the orange supplement. That complement is on the move. So I would like to ask Mr de Podemos and the Socialist Party, who are talking so much about the rescue of young people, and I am convinced that they are genuinely concerned about youth, that they really use the money that is being thrown away and that we do have a concrete public policy proposal to improve the failure of the Youth Guarantee, that they are in addition to the initiative that we have demanded of the Government to be able to offer opportunities to a large part of our young people. It is a measure that consists of a complement associated with training, a transfer that encourages employment, which also dignifies wages and, as I say, has a zero cost to the public budget because it comes with European funding. I therefore welcome the initiative of Podemos, which I say to you that we will vote in favour. I hope you will accept my amendment and incorporate what we have already agreed, and I invite the Socialist Group and the other groups in this House to join this initiative. It's okay to complain, it's okay to get very angry, but those of us who already have proposals on the table that are going to change these people's lives want to get it started as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs De Frutos Madrazo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u97	Good afternoon, everyone. Obviously we will support this initiative because we believe, as the group proposing it has said, that it is necessary to draw up a serious diagnosis of what has taken us both from the Youth Guarantee and the Youth Employment Strategy and for entrepreneurship. We have tabled an addendum to that effect: we want real data to be provided, a serious analysis of the Youth Guarantee and measures for entrepreneurship and youth employment to be made. This strategy contained a hundred measures of which we know nothing, however much our group has asked over and over again. The minister cannot come here, as she did the other day, to talk to us about - I think I remember - four issues: the bonus of the 430 euros, the contract for training, the entrepreneurs and the increase of funds and the Youth Guarantee. The issue of Youth Guarantee, the problem of youth employment, is far more serious than those four issues and this which they want to sell us. How do we see the young job? We see it as precarious and poorly paid and it is very much to blame, firstly, that the most negative aspects of our labour market always affect young people and, secondly, that the misinstrument of the Youth Guarantee has led to the situation in which we find ourselves. What situation do we find ourselves in? Firstly, long-term unemployment affects young people much more than any other worker. 47% of unemployed young people are unemployed for more than one year and one in three for two years. I wonder why the measures of the strategy to improve the indefinite employment of young people have not worked. That's what we should all ask ourselves. Secondly, our young people are affected by high rates of temporality. 56% of workers under the age of 30 are temporary. A job developed by a young person needs 26.73 contracts. We cannot afford this rate of decausalized temporality and the use of temporary contracts to give way to indefinite jobs in the company. Thirdly, young people are affected by greater bias. Fourthly, young people are affected by a large wage gap, they charge 51 % less than others. That is why our party, the Socialist Party, will never accept fashions or forms such as the complement of the 430 euros; if it is a wage supplement, that it quotes as a salary, that it is paid by the entrepreneur and that it dignifies the workers' work. And if it's anything else, they'll have to explain it to us. Fifthly, for young people, our labour market is moving in a strange dichotomy, because we are talking about training and yet 30% of contracts with graduates are for precarious activities. The use of the contract for training and learning has resulted in our qualified workers working at the hotel. Two out of three of these training contracts are made with workers who already have a degree. We have been unable in the area of the strategy of enhancing the contract in practice. We have brought our young people to fellowships and extra-work practices, that is to say, to a type of work in which they work unpaid. On the other hand, we have also not been able to train young people who did not have it. I have not heard here - or I have heard it a few times - talk about what has happened with the certificates of professionalism, what has happened with that dual formation that we are so much talked about. There is no such dual training, a training design that coordinates the study with practice in the company. We therefore believe that this initiative is necessary; we believe that it is necessary to make a serious diagnosis to deal with the modification or even a new design of the Youth Guarantee and of any measures that seek to promote young employment. Young people cannot continue to be second-rate workers and the Socialist Party will do its utmost to ensure that this is not the case. We will support this initiative. We believe that our amendment brings a greater spectrum to all the data that the Government can provide to us and that with it we can all make much more progress. Of course, we are not going to support any kind of initiative that further precariouss the work of young people, such as that complement we do not know or what it is, and for our part our full support for improving the quality of life of workers. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u98	Thank you very much. Mrs Hoyo Juliá has the floor on the position-setting table by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u99	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not good to look back or to gain momentum. Therefore, we always want to look forward, to the future, in a positive way, building from dialogue, yes, but building. This motion allows me to do what opposition groups like so much, an assessment of the great work our Government has done through the ministry led by Fatima Báñez. Because the data, although you like to obviate them, there they are and are very positive. Spain is growing at a dizzying pace, with a forecast for 2017 of 3.3%; sixth consecutive year of surplus. We have recovered two out of three jobs lost in the crisis. Employment is created month after month in all age groups, but especially in young people. The youth unemployment rate has dropped 15 points in Spain since 2012. In the past year alone, almost 7 points have been reduced. Youth employment is growing at a rate of 10%. The threshold of one million young people under 25 years of age working has been exceeded, something that has not happened for six years. In addition, indefinite recruitment increases to 20%. Ladies and gentlemen, is this all random? No, it's the fruit of making the right decisions. The reforms that Spain needed have been made. The first employment measure adopted by the Council of Ministers in the 10th Legislature was the Entrepreneurship and Youth Employment Strategy, with a hundred measures aimed at improving employability, facilitating employment, promoting entrepreneurship and improving the situation within the labour market. This strategy has yielded results, as it has created job opportunities for more than two million young people. As regards the Youth Guarantee, which is the subject of this debate, it should be remembered that it is the result of a tough negotiation that our President, Mariano Rajoy, had in Brussels, I want to say that since its launch in 2014 the number of registered has been gradually increasing. As of 31 August 2017, there were 779,299 registered, an index of 69 %. This figure has been achieved thanks to measures taken by the Government, two of which could be highlighted: on the one hand, the increase in the age range from twenty-five to thirty years and, on the other, the possibility of direct registration. As you can see, much has been done to improve the employment situation of young people, but as the Minister of Employment always says, all the effort for young employment is little and much remains to be done. For our group, the People's Parliamentary Group, youth employment is a priority and we are unconformist. That is why we are going to vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal. Mr Rodríguez, we are going to vote in favour, but at the same time we are going to ask you to be more consistent. The People's Party represents good governance. The Socialist Party, the bad one. What do you represent, Mr. Rodriguez? You represent the permanent paradox and the political contradiction. Because one cannot claim to be concerned about employment and at the same time encourage movements that want to destroy it, such as tourismophobia, when tourism is one of the pillars of our economy and accounts for 15% of total employment. Because we cannot claim to be concerned about employment and at the same time oppose the flexibility of the labour market, when it is this flexibility that makes our companies more competitive and able to export more. Because one cannot claim to be concerned about employment and at the same time do nothing about it in the administrations where you govern or support the government, and here I will give an example of my community, the Valencian Community: of 16.2 million euros budgeted in 2017 for unemployed young people have only executed 530,000; that is, 5.5 %. So, Mrs Sorlí, you should be ashamed of the intervention you have made in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] It seems to you, Mr Rodriguez - for the party of Podemos and his acolytes -, what you can't, sometimes you can - whenever you care, of course -, so I don't want to end without making a last reflection with a quote from Einstein: 'We can't solve problems by thinking the same way as when we create them'. Take note. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u100	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u101	Yeah, we're gonna take a few. We are trying to get as much consensus as possible and then we will get them to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u102	Thank you very much. - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the regulation of the use, protection and promotion of symbols. [[LORDS ALLI AND SALVADOR]] [[File number 173/000040]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u103	Motion, following urgent questioning, of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Alli and Mr Salvador, on regulation of the use, protection and promotion of symbols. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor for the group responsible for the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to use at least one minute of my speech, on behalf of the Navarro People's Union, less than 20 days before 1 October, to say a few things. The first, of course, to support the Government in the defence of laws and democracy, without complexes. I would also like to convey our support to those Catalan mayors - many of them socialists - and to all the officials who have stated that they will not fail to comply with the law. Let us not forget that it begins by not respecting the law and continues to pursue those who comply with it. We would also like to reiterate that we reject the arguments used by secessionism to break the unity of Spain; we believe that its pacifism is pure facade and that its emergencies only lead to civil confrontation. Therefore, we want to make a special mention and transfer our support to the leader of Citizens, to Albert Rivera, for the comments of the leader of ETA, Arnaldo Otegi, on TV3. [[Applauds]] Otegi, ladies and gentlemen, without guns is no one; it is just a caricature of hatred that we have been able to overcome or that we should overcome. He is a professional teaser and, of course, a very bad travel companion. To the point. Ladies and gentlemen, in July we asked the Government about the placement of Basque ikurriña in the pupinazo of Pamplona on 6 July. This ocupation - with ka - of the institutional symbolic space has already been repeated in other Navarra localities: Barañáin, Iturmendi, Iurzun, Olazagutía, Baztan, Echarri-Aranaz, Bera, Estella, Tafalla, Burlada or Berriozar. All of them - not by chance - with mayors of Bildu. We have already widely denounced these practices in Navarre, which is certainly where we should do it, but this time it seemed to us that these provocations already known and that so much indignation cause in Navarre also demanded in Madrid - why not - a reflection on their own symbols, in this case on the flags. Are they sufficiently protected? What to do when they are displaced or attacked? And, finally, is it acceptable that the law does not guarantee that they are respected? By the way, ladies and gentlemen, go ahead with our congratulations and thanks to all the shipowners - around 30 000 - who, on 3 June, went out on the street to claim our respect for the flag of Navarre and also to denounce loud and clear that we will not tolerate any more fraud, no more impositions, no more deception. We, ladies and gentlemen, believe in the value of the symbols that identify us; we believe that they are important and that they must be respected. Of course we do not like, for example, that our anthem is pitted; we do not like that anyone is pitted. We like our flag and that it represents us all without exception. Navarre, ladies and gentlemen, has hers, the red, with its shield, with its royal crown, with its chains and with its emerald. A flag is not only the expression of common history and culture, it is a symbol that evokes the legacy of experiences and values that are transmitted from generation to generation; it is also a reference that reminds us who we are and encourages us to carry out projects together looking forward. We are certainly proud, for example, that our compatriots compete or fight under our flags. Yesterday it was Nadal; today, the Spanish Basketball Selection that, by the way, is not winning. And if it is true that flags differentiate one human group from another, they should be defended or promoted at least in terms of equality, brotherhood, good-neighbourliness and mutual respect. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that those who seek more earnestly to create conflicts in our societies seek to replace their flag with another flag in Navarre. What are you looking for? Easy: divide. They think: if we confuse the symbols, we question the reality they represent; if we can convince some or many that the official symbols do not represent us, we can question who we are. And not knowing who we are, ladies and gentlemen, is the first step to stop being. And so, working with small breaches of the law here and there - poc a poc, they would say in Catalonia; in vascuence, kanka kanka -, they transform reality until it becomes unrecognizable. So simple and effective. Moreover, even when the Basque ikurriña is not placed in Navarre we are now told that there is a lack of representation of feelings because our symbols no longer represent everyone. [[The lady]] The world upside down, and all lies. Today, as in July, we denounce the lack of institutional respect, the confusion involved, the expansion by force and illegal way of symbols of the Basque Autonomous Community in Navarre. What do we intend, ladies and gentlemen? First, to state that we do not accept the policy of fait accompli or of fallen arms; secondly, that we believe that the symbols of all are insufficiently protected and that we must do something else to ensure that they are protected; thirdly, to reiterate our commitment to the defense of the flag of all the shipwrecks, the own, the official, the institutional, a flag that is not the heritage of anyone and that is why it is the heritage of all, without exception: from Roncesvalles to Cortes, from Estella to Javier. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, nothing that many of you would not defend in your own communities if a flag that does not represent your community were displayed in law fraud purporting to replace your own. Finally, some today have a lot of haste and interest in the Basque flag wave 'with normality', in quotes, in Navarre, we already know. In this scenario we will continue to work so that the symbolic break they claim, that horizon of confusion and division, is not generalized in Navarre. Moreover, we will do our utmost to ensure that all these affronts disappear as soon as an election permits. I'm finishing up. What does the text of our motion ask for? Two simple things: one, to reject the illegal imposition of Basque ikurriña in Pamplona, which includes all the impositions that have come after even though they are not included in the text, and two, to encourage groups to make possible a regulation that facilitates a promotion and a use of the respectful symbols and that guarantees harmony and coexistence among all. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, we care very little about the authorship of this initiative, we care much more about the unity of action and the message that we can convey to those who are still willing to skip the law to impose their totalitarianism in Navarre. Of course, I would like to sincerely thank the support for this motion that some groups have already announced to us: the People's Party, the PSOE, Citizens or Forum. And I end up with one last idea. If we are able to unite mainly by maintaining each one our positions, our convictions, our differences, our discrepancies, etc., in the defense of what we understand to be ours, that unites us, that strengthens us, that is good, that illusions us, then we can say that we have done a useful job of which many can also feel, as we are today, proud. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is the flag of Navarre and its respect that summons us here, but the day after tomorrow - tomorrow - will be the political unity of Spain, and there they will also find us. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Salvador Armendáriz. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor at the time of the position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of UPN, you should be ashamed to come here and defend what you cannot defend in Navarre. Where is Navarra's sovereignty? Suspected to Madrid. That is what you represent: submission and political servility as Navarra's future, because in the Navarra Parliament your approaches are minority. The Navarro Parliament, by majority, with the vote of those who are at least as Navarros as you, repealed the Symbols Act; a law that you did not do to unite the Navarros, but to impose, suppress and punish those who think differently than yours. They retain the integrist tint of the political tradition they represent. The Navarra flag remains the symbol of Navarra. How can you accuse the Basque nationalists of going against her? It's part of our inheritance. You spoke the other day of the 16th century flag; no, the official Navarra flag is 1910, and you are asked to make a series of designs, and you are taken from the previous chains of Sancho el Fuerte. How can they accuse us when those who believe it in 1910 are Basque: Champion, Oloriz and Altadill? On the same day that the Navarra flag became official, it sailed at all the headquarters of the Basque Nationalist Party. And on December 3, 1924, a PNV councillor in Tafalla, Doxandabaratz, placed the Navarra flag on the balcony of the city hall. And who came to remove it? The right Navarra, his ancestors. And a sanction was imposed on Doxandabaratz, who had to go into exile. Yes, your ancestors, the Requetés. Take a look at the flags that led to the Requetés. I doubt they'll find any Navarra flags; they're all Spanish flags, starting with that of Lácar's third. The ikurriña, whether they like it or not, represents today the Basque, beyond an autonomous community, whether in Spain, France, Germany, the United States or Sevastopol. No one should impose it on anyone, but no one should impose its ostracism, and less on Navarra, because it is logical that there are people who consider that they are also represented to one with the Navarra flag with the ikurriña. They should read people of their political tradition who have their political ancestors as icons. García Garcilaso: The Navarra Diputation is the highest hierarchy of Euskal Herria; I speak of the robust assertion of the Basque Country Navarro. Onofre Larumbe: That sister Euskal Herria of our loves. Victor Pradera - look, Victor Pradera in this House in 1922-: Can there be anyone who loves Vasconia as much as I do? Baldomero Baron: Guipuzcoans and navarros, are we not buds of the same tree of the Basque strain? Joaquín Beunza: We Basques do not date. Jaime Ignacio del Burgo: For a navarro the denial of the Basque is to deny our deepest roots. Eladio Esparza - man of the regime where there are them -: The Navarros are the Basques, perhaps the only pure Basques of Vasconia; the Navarros are Basques because in that race we were forged by nature. If we heard these testimonies of up to a few decades ago from his political predecessors, it seems to me that even Sancho el Fuerte, yes from the Navarra chains, would revolt in his grave if he heard his proposal, because he is the king to whom Alfonso VIII promised to return Vizcaya, Guipuzcoa and Álava for having torturingly snatched them from Navarra. You guys today don't give a shit about this or you don't have a clue, which is worse. Do they accuse us, the Basque nationalists of identity obsessions? Look in the mirror, man; you do have a regionalist drift. As I continue to do so, I would not be surprised if the next proposal that you bring to this House is for the Osasuna to change its name to a health athletic club, but do not forget that Loderena is, by the way, created with that Basque name nothing more and nothing less than in 1940. We, the PNV, will devote ourselves to ensuring that thanks to our amendments Navarre has an additional provision that it can use, municipalities with outside powers, that it can participate in the elaboration of international treaties, thanks to the work of the PNV and our amendments, and there will be more, despite their bleakness. There is a new majority in Navarre; a majority that through its Parliament wants a more open Navarre and seeks reconciliation and tolerance. The Navarra flag and its shield are those established by the Improvement. I also make them mine, I make them mine and I respect those 23 000 who went to the demonstration, of course I do, but the majority in Parliament is what it is. I respect those 23,000, but see if I don't have to respect the many more thousands of people who went to the Diada the other day. I will tell you another thing: Navarra not from Roncesvalles to Cortes, but from Donapaleu to Cortes, that Navarra is also on the other side of the border and they use the Navarra flag. And speaking of using the Navarra flag, go to Irún and go to the PNV batzoki, because there is hanging the Navarra flag and nothing happens; it is in Guipúzcoa and there is the Navarra flag because it was Navarra territory. No one, neither the Navarra Parliament by absolute majority nor the Government of Navarre, questions them; they are absolutely theirs, but the Ikurriña is a cultural representation and, as a cultural representation, it is not a strange element to Navarra, nor is it in the Basque Country or in Iparralde, and to the testimonies I have reported. What happens is that unlike you, the Navarro Parliament does not want feelings and expressions to be prohibited by law. I will conclude by using the words of the Vice-President of the Government in the interpellation that gave rise to this motion, but it was wrong, because instead of addressing them to those who directed them, they should have been addressed to UPN. See if they fit in; he said so - and I say it to you, gentlemen of UPN -: It is regrettable that you use the flags with a frentist spirit, with a divisive spirit, with a spirit of imposition and with an authoritarian spirit. Bringing this matter to this plenary has only one objective: to seek political revenue so that we forget the government disaster they did in Navarre, with even the disappearance of savings boxes. In short, it is a question of seeking political results, confrontation and, in the future, which is probably prohibited by law, through this House, what the representatives of shipowners by majority express in their Parliament. What you want is to shut Navarra up and you won't get it. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban Bravo. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u108	From the seat, if you'll excuse me. Noting that Mr Alli has not been called to the question, he will also allow me a small tour to observe him confusing cause with effect when he puts the symbols ahead of the popular wills. That, their nationalism - not only theirs, that of Mr Alli, but that of many -, their lock in the'sostennella and not amendella', does nothing more than carry yeses to the polls on October 1st. Because of its consistency and logic, because we subscribe to it, and because Bildu will not be able to defend it in this debate, we read its replacement amendment which urges the Government to state that the laws in Navarre are decided by the Parliament of Navarre in a democratic way, recalling that this is the legislative power of the Foral Community of Navarre and that, as part of that legislative power, it includes the repeal of the Symbols Act itself or the drafting of a new one. [[The Lord]] The Lorafna makes it very clear what the flag of Navarra is and that flag must fly in all public buildings of the Foral Community. So it is today, so it was also last July 6 on the balcony of the City Hall of Pamplona and so it will be from now on. In addition, in response to the plurality, to the visibility of the different sensibilities, the ikurriña can also be placed on the balcony of the Municipality of Pamplona or other naval municipalities that decide to do so. Ikurriña, in addition to being the official flag of the Basque Autonomous Community, also represents a social sensitivity in that community as well as in Navarre or Iparralde. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u109	Thank you, Mr. Capdevila. For the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Salvador, first of all, I would like to thank you, on behalf of Mr Albert Rivera, for your kind words for that tweet that Mr Rivera has put in the past few days about Mr Otegi, and the unnecessary need for Mr Otegi to manifest himself as he does on the networks. Ladies and gentlemen, we look back again, what happens is that this time instead of looking forty years I think we've gone two hundred or something. In this case, the Parliamentary Group of Citizens agrees with the Navarro People's Union that placing an ikurriña - the flag of another autonomous community - as if it were an official flag more in the Navarra Foral Community constitutes a lack of respect for the State institutions, the outside institutions themselves and a large majority of Navarra citizens. This episode is another example of how a political force, EH Bildu, instrumentalizes the institutions of all citizens to put them at the service of a few sectarianly and contrary to democratic laws; it is, in short, another example of the policy of radicals with whom the majority of Navarro citizens are not identified. That and nothing else is what we're talking about today, ladies and gentlemen. This act of institutional disloyalty and partisan use of the institutions is an illegal act that goes against a ruling of the Navarra High Court of Justice, a judgment in which, by the way, EH Bildu was sentenced to pay the judicial costs, which ended up paying all the citizens in his pocket; a chapter as many as we have already lived the citizens of this country, in which politicians try to cover with a flag their mismanagement and use the institutions of all as if it were their private court at the cost of our taxes. For ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that by the end of June this year, just a few days before the Sanfermines re-launched a flag of the Basque Country at the City Hall of Pamplona, the Superior Court of Justice of Navarra had already clearly ruled that the City Halls of Pamplona and Tafalla were involved in fraud of law and deviation of power by placing flags that did not represent the citizens of Navarre, and which were placed for political purposes; a flag, of course, which is neither theirs nor the offices of their parties, but of all the Basques, also of the majority that feels Basque, Spanish and European. [[Applauds]] However, we are not at all surprised that nationalist politicians want to impose their political ideas on our democratic institutions; we have already seen it last week with the unfortunate spectacle that separatist politicians gave us in the Parliament of Catalonia, and it is that, just as in the case of the Catalan Parliament, the politicians of the City of Pamplona, skipping laws and democracy, decided to impose their will illegally and knowing that they do not represent a naval majority. We are not surprised because their ideologies we already know from other places. We were born as a party in Catalonia, where also symbols, institutional days and institutions have been used to divide citizens and confront each other. [[Applauds]] And to confront them with the rest of Spain and the rest of Spanish, not to unite them, which is what all politicians would have to do. To take away their rights and not to defend them, and that is what we are defending in Catalonia today and in all parliaments. We will respect the sentences of the judges and demand that the Government enforce the laws, as is normal in democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, in democracy we can defend anything, but always from democracy and with the laws, and never against them; from respect for the rest of our opinions and from respect for the institutions of the state and the rules of the game. Any action taken otherwise is not democracy and is unacceptable. In Spain, all the cultures and identities that make up the diversity of our country are assumed, respected and valued. What we are not going to assume is that no one, neither a citizen nor any institution, chooses which laws are applicable and which ones are not. The rule of law must be respected and enforced by all, without exception. Only in this way can we live together in democracy, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u111	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u112	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Someone makes a motion about Navarra's flag, keeps talking about Otegi, ends Catalonia, continues with Nadal and in the end we are in a situation where there is no place to take this. UPN brings us back to Congress an absolutely unnecessary motion, at best, and at worst a motion that will ultimately prove to be disrespectful of the reality of Navarre's self-government and its institutions, because when we talk about legitimate laws, it is assumed that the laws that the Parliament of Navarre approves, in this case, must also be respected or, if I am not right, you will tell us, but I believe that there are no first or second laws. Apart from the fact that if we hold that position, we make the Navarro citizens who elect their representatives in their legitimate parliaments - even with majorities that you do not like - deeply wrong and, of course, wrong in the path of good, truth and virtue. I grew up in a society with few symbols. It is true that in Pamplona and in the society where I spent my childhood there were few symbols. When someone appropriated a city - in that game there was only one street of Pamplona that I located in my childhood mindset as the street of flags - and when I prepared this motion I asked myself: How did this happen? What happened? And I was like, "Of course, it's just that at a certain point you decided that this wasn't the case anymore. They decided that symbols were important to convey only a sense of normality that perfectly matched the ideology that you wanted to impose on a social majority of Navarre. You at a certain point, possibly following that phrase of your older brother, Aznar, of no complexes, said that it was already worth it and that in order to secure that majority it was necessary to distinguish between good shipwrecks and bad shipwrecks, the very shipwrecks and the others. In addition, that had to have a perfectly important symbolic reflection and you used the policy manual and asked: What inner enemy are we going to look for? For the bad shipwrecks will be the red ones, these gentlemen who speak Basque, these gentlemen who have another kind of identity that is not the official mainstream that we like and that sometimes are displayed with Ikurriñas, except for the president of his party who posed smiling with an Ikurriña when he was mayor of Aoiz. He's supposed to see the light, see the faith, and now he's another time. [[Applauds]] Of course, as the protocols of the sages of Zion you began to see annexationist conspiracies to Euskadi everywhere, etc., and brought forth a law, Law 24/2003, with which you intended to start sanctioning all the municipalities and all the people who did not think like you. They came to such an extent that they intended - this time with the PP hand - to even remove subsidies to those municipalities that displayed symbols that you did not like at a certain time. That phrase came to my mind: Kill them all, God will recognize his own! Because in such a town hall it is supposed that its voters also receive these subsidies from the Government of Navarre, and they had no more or less guilt than any other citizen of that town hall. Totally, they turned Navarra into a place where there was judicial and police pressure; the Civil Guard looked at the flags and public libraries and nurseries began to display symbols of all kinds. This led to the end of social pressure, coupled with its mismanagement, dividing Navarre among the people who understand that in Navarre there is an identity plurality that must be respected and you, who simply do not understand Navarre within its plurality. But Navarra is not the only place where this has happened; it also happened in Baleares, where the People's Party, in order to avoid some claims contrary to its language policy, also passed the Symbols Act which in this case the Socialist Party revoked, which in Navarra they apparently do not do. In short, we would have liked this rostrum to have brought something that really matters and very much to the citizens of Navarre. I am talking about the Economic Convention. It will sound to you that since 2014 the agreement is paralyzed by Mr Montoro and you do nothing. They could have brought a motion here and put forward that update that is causing harm to all of Navarra's citizenship; not just to the one he thinks like you, but to all of Navarra's citizenship. I therefore insist that, instead of seeing so many flags, please do something for all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos. Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u114	Good afternoon. The Socialist Group will vote in favour of this motion tabled by UPN, as we advocate the use of the official symbols of Navarre. These symbols and only they represent all the citizens of Navarre, regardless of their beliefs, ideologies or their origin. We support the Symbols Act of 2003, as we supported it in 1986, and the Navarra Foreign Improvement Act, which for the first time in 1982 established the official flag and shield of Navarra. This support from the Socialist Group to its symbols remains unchanged and, therefore, I announce to you that the Socialist Party of Navarre as soon as it governs there - I am convinced that it will be in 2019 - will promote a law of symbols that protects the use of the flag, the anthem and the coat of arms of Navarre exclusively in official institutions. That being said quite frankly, I also say to the Members of the UPN that they do not have the Socialist Party to make the symbols of Navarre a war of flags, since that only feeds back the flag war to which Basque nationalism in Navarre has accustomed us for many years. It is to use the flags and symbols to divide and crisp, just the opposite of what the symbols of a community should represent. You, UPN, have always done so; you have now done so by bringing this motion to the Congress of Deputies and did so in 2007 when you used the flag of Navarre precisely to fight against a political agreement that would leave you outside the Government of Navarre. Of course, the Socialist Group is in favour of law enforcement. In this regard, it is clear that, as the Navarra Council's opinion requested by the Navarra Foral Parliament, when this repeal of the law was carried out, the mere repeal of the Symbols Act of 2003 does not cover the use of other teachings in the official institutions of Navarra, beyond the flag of Navarra, the local flag of each municipality, Spanish and European, which is also based on rulings of the Supreme Court which have already warned that it is not possible to use a flag that does not identify with the community of citizens who, as a whole, regardless of majorities or minorities, constitute the legal reference territory of that community. There is nothing against the use of the flag of another outlaw community in political parties or associations, but not in official institutions that, as I say, represent and must represent all citizens. That is why we support the legal action against those municipalities in which they have waved flags that are not official, but we do not want to take a step further in this flag war that, as I say, contributes to creeping and dividing the citizenry. The symbols of Navarre represent all the citizens of any locality of Navarre, to whom they speak Spanish, to whom they speak Basque, to the voters of any political party, to whom they feel only Navarra or share that identity with another cultural or national identity. The symbols of Navarre represent us all, and they are not instruments to show affinities or animadversions, Mr Santos. That is why we cannot understand how your political group in Navarre decides to support a repeal of the law that allows the rise of the flag of the Basque Autonomous Community, at the same time as its president of the Foral Parliament disconnects the flag of Europe from the mast of the Foral Parliament of Navarre. We also find it a fraud of law the way in which this procedure has been done. The groups that have supported the repeal of this law have tried to create a space of legal impunity by making, in our view, a fraud of law, rather than bringing to the Foral Parliament of Navarre a law that represented what you wanted to do, which was the coexistence of flags. They have chosen, because they dare not do anything else, to create this space of legal impunity, and also without any kind of democratic agreement in the municipalities that have raised the flag, because there has been no agreement or debate. You, gentlemen of Podemos, who are so exquisite in the demand for deliberative processes and consultation to, for example, carry forward some of the strategic infrastructures that Navarre needs, have not said anything about the way in which the mayor of Pamplona decided - I insist -, without any agreement, to carry the flag of the Basque Autonomous Community to the balcony of the City of Pamplona. Finally, I would just like to remind the President of Navarre, from this rostrum, of her recent statements to a media outlet two weekends ago. He said: Stealing democratic majorities from the expression of their symbols is unacceptable, and in the general institutions of all Navarros there is not a single ikurriña. But the same argument applies to the municipalities where the majority feelings are others. I ask Mrs Barkos: are not the municipalities of Navarre also institutions of all, such as the general institutions she says? Where does she put most of the feelings? Because there has been no agreement of any institution. What democratic decisions have been taken in the municipalities where the Ikurriña has waved? None of these questions have an answer. The Socialist Party will vote in favour of this motion, because we consider the decision to place the ikurriña in the balconies of some Navarra municipalities fraudulent and undemocratic, but we also denounce the patrimonial use that UPN once again wants to make of the flags of Navarra with the aim of dividing and crisping more than to unite. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Fernández. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Cortés Bureta.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Salvador, the People's Parliamentary Group will support your motion. The Vice-President of the Government expressed her support for the arguments raised there and, after reading and analysing her motion, ratified us in the same vein. The political forces supporting the outlaw government effectively repealed the Navarra Symbols Act; they did so in an autonomous Parliament which, as has been said, has legitimacy, it is true, has been elected by the citizens and therefore it is up to them to make, legislate and draft rules affecting their autonomous community. In that I have to give the reason, without precedent, to Mr Capdevila and Mr Santos, who refer to it when they talk about the autonomous parliaments, but they forget a shade that I will put out in this rostrum, because I think it is necessary and it is also a good time. These autonomous parliaments have electoral legitimacy because they have been elected by the citizens of their autonomous community and set standards for their autonomous community, but look! these autonomous parliaments also need legal legitimacy and have to act, act and elaborate their rules in accordance with the laws and the Constitution, because within the framework of the Constitution it is where these autonomous parliaments have been created and formed. [[Applauds]] That electoral legitimacy does not give them a blank card so that the Constitution and the rules affecting all citizens can be ignored. The repeal of the Navarre Symbols Act did not mean that a legal vacuum was created or that the Ikurriña could wave in the bodies and official offices of Navarre, not because it was said by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador or Mr Alli on the day of the inquiry, but because it was said by the State Advocate, by the Navarre Council and by the Navarra High Court of Justice. They have been very clear and have left no doubt, expressing that the repeal of this Law of symbols does not create a legal vacuum nor does it allow the official use of Ikurriña in Navarre. Even the president of the Navarra Federation of Municipalities and Councils informed the local authorities that this did not mean that the public institutions of the community could use other symbols other than the officials. From there, and in addition to that, as Mr.Savior rightly said, it has been in breach of the rules of the hanging, it has been in breach of the Constitution and several municipalities have continued to put their balcony the ikurriña. That behaviour of certain political formations or representatives, disobeying the courts and failing to comply with the rules, I say to you, with all honesty, ladies and gentlemen, that you are perhaps in a co-ordinate of changed time and space. This applies to other countries, but not to a rule of law such as Spain, or to another time in which it was precisely fought to avoid what they are doing, which is to turn a personal or partisan will into a law for all. Moreover, those who swear or promise to enforce laws and the Constitution should not do so. Those who do that do not pay for it, nor do they want to bear the consequences. The City Council of Pamplona has spent more than EUR 12 000 on lawsuits and legal costs for some of its flag decisions. When warned or someone refers to the consequences of such disobedience, some take it as a threat. By that rule of three, let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that all citizens would be threatened, because we all know or should know the rules and consequences that result from non-compliance with them. That non-compliance with a rule results in a penalty, fine or penalty being known to all citizens and all citizens assume that non-compliance or non-compliance with a rule has a consequence. No representative should feel different from the other citizens. If you fail to meet a standard, you know that has consequences. Representatives are neither unpunished nor imputable, nor have a carte blanche to do what they want by occupying a certain position. Ladies and gentlemen, the flag is a symbol, a sensitive representation of something behind it, which is a much more complex reality. As a symbol, it fulfils a function of identification of a reality but also of identification with that reality, with which in the end it fulfils primarily and indisputably an integrating function. It integrates and reinforces the collective identity. It is true that it also has a differentiation function, there are different flags in the different autonomous communities, but we must remain with the positive, which is integration and differentiation. It can also be used negatively, but, ladies and gentlemen, let us not do so, let us not use it as a source of conflict. Ladies and gentlemen - I conclude, Mr President - the citizens who live in a society need symbols that identify us with our community and behind each flag there is a history, a culture, a character, a feeling, an emotion, and no one, no representative or any political formation can claim the monopoly of their use, and much less can politically exploit the balcony of a city council. We respect the symbols, we respect our flags, because a society that does not respect its symbols does not respect itself. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cortés. I now ask Mr Salvador whether he accepts his group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u118	No, Mr. President. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on measures to be taken by the Government to address the deficit in the system of social security, without calling it into question and guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions, now that the Social Security Reserve Fund has been established. [[File number 173/000041]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u119	We turn to the next item: Motion for an urgent debate by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the measures the Government intends to take to correct the deficit in the social security system, without debt and guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions, now that the Social Security Reserve Fund has been exhausted. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Bona tarda, good afternoon, the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings this motion to debate because of the need to address and consolidate a social security system and the recovery of the purchasing power of pensions. Is it urgent? Yeah, it's urgent. It is urgent because of the alarming and growing deficit in social security for which this group, as well as the other groups and representatives and social actors who have come to the Toledo Pact, have been urging the Government for months to take measures to avoid its chronification and resulting from it a justified structural reform that will turn our contributory pension system into a benefit system. It is urgent because since February this year the Government has not met with the social partners for pension reform for more than seven months, which demonstrates their inability or unwillingness and thus put the social security system in check. Thirdly, it is urgent because the Reserve Fund will be exhausted with the payment of the next extra Christmas pay. Fourthly, it is urgent because while we are sure that the PP government will not stop paying pensions - it is clear that it would be a political suicide - the fact is that the 2012 labour reform, together with the 2013 pension reform, imposed unilaterally without agreement in the social dialogue and without agreement in the Toledo Pact, will mean, already, a reduction in pensions with great loss of purchasing power for pensioners, which will worsen in the future, while at the same time a decline in income for the social security system. It is urgent because the use of the loan indefinitely will not solve the situation of imbalance, especially if the public debt is already based on the type and analysts indicate that this resource is not sustained in time. With greater reason if the Reserve Fund, which was used as a mattress and we left the Socialists at 70 billion euros, there are only 11,600 left. It is urgent because the Government is hiding behind the Toledo Pact in order to avoid making decisions, when it was unilaterally adopted in 2013, passing the Toledo Pact through the exit box and obviously without social dialogue. The Government is well aware that recommendation one empowers it to take such measures, it has no need to wait for a future Toledo Pact; doing something else, if necessary, delaying the decision, is tacticalism of the People's Party. It is urgent because the problem lies on the income side, and you know it, in particular in the collection of contributions and consequently wages, being that decisive. It is therefore the will of this Socialist Group to call for pension reform and, of course, for labour reform. Ladies and gentlemen, today wages have been severely devaluationd as a result of structural reforms that have generated unsustainable wages in terms of poverty. Today we recover a terminology that we had eradicated, labor poverty. A wage devaluation that irreparably affects social security income and that, according to the INE, will assume that those with less income, 60% of the average wage, are below and that even we are only below Greece or Romania. The wages of 40% of the population with lower wages have decreased and temporary recruitment is the day-to-day nature of our labour market. Wage reductions accounted for 25% for each of the people who entered the labour market and mainly affected young people. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u121	Wait a minute, Mrs. Perea, please. I beg your silence. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u122	With this picture, when the minister comes and says that this is the spring of employment, this group has to tell her that, in any case, it is the sunset of employment in terms of dignity. Today it is a reality that the improvement of productivity has not benefited workers, but, on the contrary, has gone to business surpluses. That is why we Socialists are proposing an income pact, which we are debating today in this Chamber, which will involve the recovery of decent wages and, of course, leaving the poverty of the workers to one side. We are being announced an improvement in the quota collection by the People's Party; we are talking about nothing less than EUR 10 billion in August. We are asked for an act of faith because they do not give us a role or give us any data. I remind you that in January of this year Minister Báñez failed to tell the truth by stating that the financial year 2016 had closed with a record of 117 billion euros. It was only EUR 14 billion wrong. Madam minister - this I dedicate to you - the half truths, when not the lies, have short legs. Madam Minister, we want - and we have claimed it - to see the certain data. I ask the Citizens' Lords what their position is to the attitude of the People's Party to look elsewhere and not to take resolute action on this very important and transcendental issue for our future. Not the future of the Members we are here, no; we are talking about women, young people and older than fifty-two years old who, thanks to having abolished the fifty-two year allowance, are today totally deprived of the social protection system. Theoretically, the social protection system had to be financially, legally, politically and, of course, socially sustainable, but at the moment it is no longer. The People's Party, with its structural reform of 2013, was the first to attack the Constitution in its articles 41 and 50 by leaving without content the principle of sufficiency that has so many times allowed, especially in times of crisis, that our elders could give a way not only to their life and their final life plan, but also to that of their families. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to take urgent measures to overcome the imbalance in the social protection system and, of course, to bring us back to purchasing power. The amendments proposed by the groups have been considered interesting, except for that of the People's Party which seemed to us to be somewhat opportunistic, and I leave it there. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our responsibility today to vote on a motion in which we all find ourselves in a positive way to create. If this motion is approved today, we will give a very clear message to the citizens who are outside, to the pensioners and, above all, to the more than 46 million people in this country who have their names and surnames and who are at the moment in need of a result from this Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Barandiaran Benito intervenes, first of all, by the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us start with a statement and your denial. We understood that there was some kind of tacit pact for those issues affecting the pension system to be discussed in advance in the Toledo Pact, so this proposal as such, in principle, has seemed somewhat inappropriate to us. However, it must also be said that it does not seem unreasonable to me to do so, but quite the contrary, as I will explain. The truth is that, after what goes on in the year in the Toledo Pact and after listening to the experts who have visited us, the immediate financial perspective of the pension system, taking into account its distribution characteristic, has not only been in deficit for five years but will continue to be in the following years. I therefore understand that we already know that in the immediate future measures will have to be taken to ensure the absolute relativisation of the current pension financing system. A few days ago, in the context of an appearance in the Toledo Pact, someone denied me that the social security system already rests on the general budgets of the State. Not only because the General Budget Act in its articles 1, 2 and 3 of Law 47/2003 or the consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security, articles 1, 2 and 3 of the Royal Legislative Decree 8/2015 - octopus is not pet - covers all these budgets in the general budgets of the State whole public sector, both of the General Administration of the State and of the Social Security and its entities, but also because even leaving aside the use of the Reserve Fund to alleviate a constant deficit, and even leaving aside the effect that the crisis has had on the advance of the deficit situation, it is true that, without concrete new ways of the future, what article 109 of the consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security calls progressive contributions from the State that will be recorded on a permanent basis in its general budgets, the social security system is projected to a deficit that must be classified as structural. The labour market, even as the retirement age lag is being applied, even though an unemployment rate of less than 10 % could be achieved, or even if the dream figure of 20 million employees were reached, despite this, the proportion between assets and pensioners is going to be narrower, which means that if we do not take action, the contribution of the existing workforce will not be able to bear the pressure of the number of pensioners and the amounts of future pensions, as many experts who have appeared in the Toledo Pact have shown us. This means that, even with the measures suggested by all the experts, made eloquently clear last Wednesday by the Director-General of the Treasury of Social Security, which would mean eliminating from the budget of Social Security all those improper items, as the Minister described them, that is, those which do not involve the payment of contributory benefits, despite this, only with the contributions will not be able to achieve their sustenance. The question is whether the deficit of the system is temporary or is going to be structural. And today, apart from the fact that the crisis has advanced the consequence of the deficit for several years to the expected retirement of the baby boom generation, it cannot be said in any way that the deficit of the social security system is temporary, as the Minister said; quite the contrary. The data suggest that, even if these items are passed on to the General Budgets of the State, as recommended by the Director General of the Treasury of Social Security, even if they reach that magical figure of twenty million employees and therefore of contributors, the balance between income and expenditure of the system, which would still be greater, would not be achieved. And it is true that it would have preferred this debate to have taken place within the framework of the Toledo Pact, but there is no further warning to the House of the background to be taken into account in the near future when assessing hypothetical measures which, if necessary, and more than likely, will be linked to its support by the State's General Budgets. In this regard, we have proposed to the drafters of the motion an amendment which we hope will be accepted, clarifying that the recommendation to be made to the Government is based on its prior treatment in the Toledo Pact with the social partners, specifying that it is through the appropriate means at the disposal of the State's General Budgets that they will serve to alleviate that deficit which, in our view, will most likely be structural. That therefore implies our vote in favour of the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u125	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Faba de la Encarnación has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. I do not know if you are aware of the murmuring in the Chamber right now, but even if we are finishing the agenda, I beg you, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been working for many months in the Committee on the Toledo Pact during which we were able to listen to many experts who were telling us about the measures we could take to meet the challenges of our pension system. In each and every one of these appearances we have been able to hear over and over again how the PSOE repeated to us the need to reach great agreements and consensus within the framework of the Toledo Pact. We have also been able to hear the spokespersons of the PSOE stand up again and again to the representatives of the PP that their 2013 reform was not consensual, that was behind the Toledo Pact and without the agreements of political groups or trade unions. All that is true, but the reality is that with initiatives like those that bring us here today, you are not very different from PP. This is not the first time that the PSOE has brought an initiative like this to the House. A few months ago we discussed a very similar one, but, although we are not surprised, neither then nor now we can understand what the PSOE intends to achieve with these initiatives, which not only contribute absolutely nothing but also are completely inconsistent with what the PSOE itself has been saying on this subject since the beginning of the legislature. They said that in the area of pensions it should not be done unilaterally and leaving aside the Toledo Pact, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, are doing exactly the opposite of what you preach. Should we not reach agreements and not go beyond the Toledo Pact? Where are those words now? Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, we ask you to be consistent. It is not the first time that you have contradicted each other, in the end you - no matter how much you say now - have already unilaterally frozen pensions with Mr Zapatero's government. What do you propose in particular? Because with this initiative you insist on your machacon speech on the need to do something urgent, but without saying exactly what. Of course, we too would like our pensions to rise every year - the more, the better - and also to do so without social security having to go into debt, but I do not think it is necessary to remind everyone that our social security has a deficit of some EUR 18 billion. How do you intend to get what you ask with that hole? Are you planning any reform, or do you just want to cover it with more taxes? Because, if so, I beg you to be honest and say it without ambiguity and without complexes. I would also ask them to clarify what taxes they want to raise. Would they propose to raise VAT, shortening the rise of the People's Party, or the IRPF that pays all the middle working classes, or perhaps simply ask to increase the social contributions that companies pay and that already account for almost 25% of labour costs today? If so, will they explain to us how they will do so without damaging job creation? [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u127	Wait a minute, Mrs. Faba. At the beginning of the intervention, I asked them to remain silent, and I asked them to do so, please. Now I no longer ask you, please; I demand you to remain silent. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, I am afraid you have absolutely no plan, or are you encouraged by your colleagues on the left, the ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, who recently wanted to scrape a media minute with an even more crazy initiative? Ladies and gentlemen, let us not lose the north. We face very important challenges to ensure the sustainability of our pension system, but we are also optimistic and fully confident that we will all be able to reach agreements and address necessary reforms. I repeat, among all, with work, dedication, dialogue and negotiation. I beg you to abandon that useless frenzy, gentlemen of the PSOE. Stop making proclamations that do not lead anywhere and are consistent, be also honest. The reforms that our pension system needs are all in the same direction, the same one that you followed and the same one that followed the PP, because neither of them invented anything at all, but merely implemented the same reforms that our European partners have been implementing for years. However, I also say to you that these reforms that have been carried out are insufficient to ensure the sustainability of the system. It will therefore be necessary to make further reforms, not only to support this sustainability but also to ensure the adequacy of pensions in accordance with the mandate of article 50 of the Spanish Constitution, a mandate that unfortunately the latest reforms seem to have left behind and for which we will have to continue working on the Toledo Pact. In view of all the above, from Citizens we have tabled an amendment that demands what you, gentlemen of the PSOE, were defending until recently: that the challenges of our pension system should not be tackled with patches, that reforms are needed and that these reforms should not be carried out unilaterally but as a result of major agreements within the Toledo Pact. We trusted that if they were consistent, they would accept it. Let us not remain in proclamations about recovering a past that will not return, let us not remain in abrogating all previous reforms as if we could do so by magic eliminate the problems for which they were raised; let us look forward to achieving among all reforms that can not only remain in a purely accounting area of social security income and expenditure, but must look beyond that, because sufficient pensions require more stable and productive jobs, and that, with the shortcomings and limitations of our labour market and our educational system, is frankly difficult. As I told you, in Citizens we are optimistic and we are convinced that with dialogue, work, dedication and negotiation we will be able to overcome these and other challenges that are now and in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u129	Thank you very much, Mrs. Faba. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Camps Devesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on a few or no occasion a Parliament adopts a resolution against its own functions and responsibilities. If the motion we are debating today in its initial terms is approved, it will be one of them today. Let me tell you another way, Mrs. Perea: you put the car in front of the oxen. The granting of a three-month period for the Government, following negotiations with the social partners, to adopt a series of measures does not seem consistent with the procedure we have established in this Congress, since it is the Toledo Pact - yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Toledo Pact - through its recommendations, which will have to be decided within such time as it deems necessary, in advance of the Government presenting measures. Therefore, the right thing to do is to wait for results, not to set deadlines, let alone for social dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, we as Members cannot set deadlines for social dialogue and its possible agreements. As the motion does in its initial terms, it is, in my view, to extra limit ourselves in our functions as parliamentarians. But let there be no misunderstanding, this parliamentary group and the Government it supports have defended and will defend the public pension system; a just, supportive and balanced pension system, as established by our Constitution, where the State is already committed to the articulation of economic resources that make this social protection viable enough. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have enough pensions. Our replacement rate, i.e. the last salary-first pension, is the highest in the whole of the European Union, and today, with this government, the purchasing power of our pensioners has been maintained, unlike with other governments. But, ladies and gentlemen, the adequacy of pensions must be compatible with the interests of the rest of the population. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u131	Wait a minute, Mr. Camps. I would ask you to do so in the corridor, not in the Chamber, if you have to have essential talks. To whom we have to listen is to the speaker and, as you can see, the height of the murmur prevents it. That is to say, I ask you, please, to attend to what the Presidency says and to remain silent. Thank you very much. Go on, Mr. Camps.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the system has to be sustainable and viable, not only for those who receive the pension now, but also for the millions of members who currently contribute each month and want a reasonable benefit. Is it enough to increase employment to guarantee our social security system? No, but, ladies and gentlemen, without the recovery of our labour market - the forgotten part of the socialist motion - without reaching the twenty million employed workers, it will be difficult, if not impossible, for our pension system to have a solid basis to settle down. No one can deny, as Mrs Perea almost does today, that employment is being created in Spain today. No one can deny that more and better pensions are paid today in Spain than ever before. To do so is simply to lack the truth or, what is the same, simply to lie. And, ladies and gentlemen, we haven't had a bad time with the Toledo Pact. The People's Party and the Socialist Party have been able to negotiate and review it over and over again, and today some groups seem to want to do nothing about it. Some data: today we pay 9,532,495 pensions - more than ever -; today we spend 8790 million a month - more than ever -; today the average pension amount is 922.17 euros - higher than ever -; and today the average retirement pension amount, the most important in the system, is 1065.53 euros - higher than ever -. And for your peace of mind, Mrs Perea, social security records are being broken today: more than 10 billion a month. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to those who say that the People's Party or its Government or Minister Báñez are a danger to the pension system, I answer them: often danger that has contributed to the fact that today in our country there are more and better pensions than ever before. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is not just the merit of the People's Party and its governments; it is the merit of all those who have participated in the Toledo Pact that is not being met today. The Toledo Pact is the way forward since 1995. The Toledo Pact is the guarantee that our unique social security system, of distribution, contribution, solidarity and equality, can be maintained over time. The Toledo Pact represents the agreement between us, those who have been and those who will be. The Toledo Pact are recommendations, ladies and gentlemen, yes, but it also has spirit. An unwritten recommendation that permeates all others: our pension system, pensions, should not be a partisan battlefield, should no longer be a bold political weapon between each other. That is what we decided in 1995 and we have maintained it until today. It will not be the People's Party that gets carried away by irresponsible adanisms. Those who want us to return to the pre-1995 situation are not new or even new. Some groups in this House, ladies and gentlemen, some of you just want to go back to the past, and those we agreed in the past, we just want to win the future. That is why my group will vote against this motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u133	Thank you, Mr. Camps. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u134	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Mrs. Perea. The discussion we are witnessing, which is legitimate, highlights the crisis in the Toledo Pact. The Toledo Pact has been meeting for months, but it is unable, for the time being, to make sufficient progress towards what we had committed ourselves to, which is the renewal of its recommendations. We all claim the Toledo Pact as an instrument for building a policy of consensus on pensions and, moreover, despite the legitimate noise that the various spokespersons are generating today, what is true is that on the two main issues of this afternoon's debate, discrepancies are more apparent than real. We all agree that the system has a deficit. We could discuss whether the deficit of the system is structural or whether, in a scenario of full employment, that deficit can be reduced, but, in any case, we all agree that additional sources of social security funding are needed; it is not a consensus or much less. Secondly, we all agree on the need to guarantee the purchasing power of pensioners. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u135	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] Wait a minute, Mr. Campuzano. It's been a particularly complicated afternoon, I see. I have already told you before that those who have to have inescapable talks do so in the hallway and not in the Chamber. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u136	Thank you, Mr. President, for your protection. He said that the Government and its parliamentary allies understand that the reform of 2013, in their own considerations, already guarantees the purchasing power of pensioners and those who reject that reform we understand that not, but we think that pension policy should aim at guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensioners. Some of us believe that if the Government continues to implement the legislation it passed alone with that 0.25, the purchasing power of the pensioners is not guaranteed, and not only do we pose it by the opposition groups, but even the Independent Fiscal Authority warns us that with inflations above 0.25 we are going to result in the impoverishment of the pensioners. Well, on the two issues, on how we deal with the deficit in the social security system and on the need to guarantee the purchasing power of pensioners, the motion that Mrs Perea finally puts to the vote could also have the support of the People's Party and Citizens' Party, because what this text says that we are going to adopt is not so far - I hope - from the claims of the people and Citizens, that is to resolve the deficit in the pension system and guarantee the purchasing power of pensioners. [[The lady]] And it is a pity that in this motion that people and citizens decide not to join what will be the consensus of most groups and, therefore, with the gesture that today people and citizens do not join the consensus that we are reaching the rest of the groups, weaken the Toledo Pact. Today, an act of generosity by the People's Party and citizens could perfectly allow us to adopt a motion in which we would express two commitments: the commitment to deal with the deficit of the system with additional resources and the commitment to continue guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions, as the Toledo Pact seeks. I believe that this is an exercise of political myopia, an exercise of irresponsibility for the future of pensions and, above all, does not move to all citizens who, in fact, have an unequivocal commitment of the people and citizens to the public pension system. I think they're missing a great opportunity to do a good job today. We're sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u137	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u138	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, probably the most reliable proof of the strength of our social security system is that it has so far survived to the People's Party. Only a week ago we had Minister Fatima Báñez in the Commission and she entered Narnia for a few moments. He entered us into a parallel reality where - his words - we were living a spring of employment, where we were experiencing a social, healthy and solid exit from the crisis and - to know what had breakfastd that day the minister - he also assured that Spain was an example of growth without leaving anyone behind. An attempt to start the political course by practicing a general lobotomy, obviating data, reality and, of course, common sense. What the People's Party describes as healthy, social and solidarity for the vast majority means a 'deepening' and a generalization of the chronification of precariousness and inequality. Spain ranks twenty-six out of the twenty-eight European Union in the ranking of countries with more poor workers. In my city, for example, in Barcelona, average wages fell by 6.55% between 2010 and 2015, and 64% of those under the age of 30 do not even reach the milleurist, and that is taking into account, ladies and gentlemen, that Barcelona, together with Madrid, has the highest average wages in all of Spain. The end of the summer has destroyed 179,485 jobs, the worst membership data since 2008. Only on the last day, on 31 August, 266,362 jobs were lost, three times as many as were created on 1 August. The People's Party Government also has the medal, if I may, to reinvent the term precarious. My generation has grown with precariousness. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u139	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u140	Thank you, Madam President. We are children of the reforms, in this case, of the governments of Felipe González. We entered the labour market with much more precarious conditions than the rest; they used us in the field of tests, all of them. The interest of recent labour reforms lies precisely in its success in generalizing precariousness and widening inequality. But I look at the new generations of workers, because the precarious and precarious term is getting short to define it. Its reforms - those of the People's Party - allow a person, despite working, to be poor, because they allow much lower wages, more instability and, therefore, worse contributions. The group of pensioners today is one of the most vulnerable, 40% of retirement pensions are below the inter-professional minimum wage and almost 60% are below EUR 1000. The management of the People's Executive is a long-standing failure, ladies and gentlemen: 80 billion accumulated deficit to Social Security since governing the People's Party - 80 billion, ladies and gentlemen -; 18 billion deficit at the close of 2016; 16 000 is planned for 2017; 55,210 million euros less in the Reserve Fund, and the winch, 1.5 points of loss of the purchasing power of the pensioners. And no, it has not been any kind of atmospheric accident, it has been largely by the policies of the government of Mariano Rajoy. The People's Party is the perfect storm that today is hitting Social Security; it is labor reform that is behind the deficit and emergency situation of Social Security; it is the pension reform of the People's Party and also that of the Socialist Party that are behind the devaluation of our public system and the loss of the purchasing power of our pensioners. It is their perverse fiscal policy that, while denying the necessary income for the social security system, approves fiscal amnesty for its evasive and corrupt. I repeat, your escapees and your corrupts. It is the irresponsibility of the People's Party that is emptying the Social Security Reserve Fund and it is its neoliberal logic that today prevents them from facing the sufficiency of pensions. They have turned the Ministry of Employment into the Ministry of Propaganda. And that's it! Stop hiding behind the skirts of the Toledo Pact! Concertation, dialogue and respect for the commissions can never be an excuse for not taking letters on the matter. Do your job, talk to the social partners and finally bring your proposals to this Parliament to address the social security deficit and to ensure the dignity and sufficiency of pensions. Stop throwing balls out, assume their failure and stop torturing most of the citizens of this country with their reforms. Repeal labour reform, repeal pension reform and push for deep tax reform. If you need ideas, Unido Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea already presented this June a serious proposal for reform of the pension system. It would be very refreshing for them to take a look at our proposals. I'm done. I say that solidarity is the tenderness of the people and I want to end by showing in this case my full support and all solidarity to the French people. Today they are called to a general strike for an unjust labour reform of the Macron Government and in this case I want to give effect to my solidarity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u141	I ask Mrs Perea i Conillas whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u142	We have presented a transaction that the lawyers already have and that they have also passed to the rest of the groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u143	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u144	We turn to the agenda item on the proposal of the Committee on Education and Sport to submit to the plenary the granting of an additional six months' extension of the deadline granted to the subcommittee for the elaboration of a major social and political pact for education for the completion of its work. That proposal shall be put to the vote at the end of this meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin voting. First, we voted for the proposal to reform Organic Law 4/1982 of 9 June of the Statute of Autonomy of the Region of Murcia. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 189 against, 1 abstentions, 149.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u146	It was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u147	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, an organic amendment to the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code, on imprudence in driving motor vehicles or mopeds and sanctioning the abandonment of the place of the accident. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 337 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u148	It is therefore taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u149	Let us now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. First, no law proposal of popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Socialist, Confederal de Uni Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Citizens, Esquerra Republicana and Mixto, regarding the impulse of an organic law to eradicate violence against children. We voted on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 333 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u150	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE SENTENCES AGAINST THE PRESIDENT OF THE GENERALITY OF CATALUNYA LLUIS COMPANYS AND OTHER DECIDED BY THE COURTS OF THE OPINION. [[File number 162/000449]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u151	We now proceed to vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the rulings against the President of the Generalitat de Catalunya and others handed down by the dictatorship's courts. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 168 against, 141 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u152	It was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u153	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the development and implementation of the European Youth Guarantee Initiative. We will vote on it in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendments by the Socialist Group and the Basque Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 310 abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u154	It was therefore adopted. - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the regulation of the use, protection and promotion of symbols. [[LORDS ALLI AND SALVADOR]] [[File number 173/000040]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u155	We now vote on the motion of urgent interpellation by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Alli and Mr Salvador, on the regulation of the use, protection and promotion of symbols. We are going to vote on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 246 against, 93 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u156	It was therefore adopted. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on measures to be taken by the Government to address the deficit in the system of social security, without calling it into question and guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions, now that the Social Security Reserve Fund has been established. [[File number 173/000041]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u157	We are now voting on the motion resulting from an urgent call from the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the measures the Government intends to take to correct the deficit in the social security system, without debt and guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensions, now that the Social Security Reserve Fund has been exhausted. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Groups, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, de Esquerra Republicana y Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 179 against, 130 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u158	Accordingly, the motion was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u159	Finally, the Committee on Education and Sport's proposal to submit to the plenary the six additional months of the deadline granted to the subcommittee for the elaboration of a major social and political pact for education, for the conclusion of its work. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 325 against, 9 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-12-CD170912.u160	Accordingly, the extension of the subcommission for the elaboration of a major social and political pact for education was approved. The meeting was suspended. It was eight and thirty minutes of the night.
