ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Firstly, questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández, Member of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rajoy, what do you do with your thirteen months of government?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Robles. The balance sheet these months I think is a reasonable balance sheet. We have grown above 3%, well above the European average and the major economies such as Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Italy. We recovered the total GDP lost during the crisis, almost 10% of our wealth. Exports have grown, they are at 9% annually, they are at historical peaks. We've hit tourist records. We continue to reduce the public deficit. The normal thing is that next year we get out of the excessive deficit procedure. The reduction of public debt is also beginning; therefore, we continue to improve the foundations of our economy, building the future. And there are three last things I'd like to refer to. Firstly, employment, the main concern of the Spanish people, has increased by 637 000 jobs over a year ago, according to the latest social security data we have seen in November. The youth unemployment rate has also fallen by six points and the number of people who have been unemployed for a long time has fallen by 555,000 this year. There has also been an improvement in the living conditions of families, and the risk of poverty and exclusion is being reduced. Dependency benefits are at their highest historical level. Early school leaving is also slowing down at a very good pace, and finally, with your help, we have made a defence of national unity and compliance with our Constitution in the case of Catalonia, which we have discussed on numerous occasions. That's why I'm telling you that the balance sheet is very reasonable. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u5	Mrs. Robles, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u6	Mr Rajoy, I believe that you live in the country of the wonders of Alicia, because during this parliamentary term, during this session, the legislative activity that you have brought here, to this House, is non-existent. The proof that it is non-existent - I believe that you yourself have been hasty - is that in the last Council of Ministers you have presented something that you call an annual regulatory plan in which you say the laws you are going to do for the next session. We are reassured that it is an annual plan and not a five-year plan, because at this session only fourteen bills have been submitted, nine of which responded to initiatives by the European Union and the rest - five - two referred to the Basque quota and concert. Meanwhile, Spain is the country with the second highest unemployment rate in Europe, it is a country where Europe's greatest income inequalities are present. What am I going to tell you about the social security system? What am I going to tell you about the lack of purchasing power of pensioners? But for you, nothing: fourteen bills. You know what's worse? That you behave with the pride of the absolute majority, you believe you have absolute majority and not only do not do it, but do not let the opposition do it. I know it bothers you to say this, but you have vetoed forty-four proposals for opposition law, all of which, of course, affect those who are worst affected by the crisis, the unemployed, the young and the dependent. What are you guys doing? When a law is adopted, it is brought to sleep by the dream of the righteous: thirty-five deadlines for the extension of amendments you make to subjects such as the interprofessional minimum wage. Stop making arguments, stop making annual plans with 142 sheets. Spain and the Spanish do not deserve a government that has paralysed parliamentary activity in this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u7	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. I don't really have many considerations to make to your words. If any, tell him that I am fully aware that this much of having the support of the absolute majority of this House. Legislative activity, fourteen bills, not many or few. What is clear is that the important thing is that they are good and normally those who present the government are good, and good proof of that is that they go ahead, which means that some other Members of this House are also convinced. But the most important thing is to know what really matters to all citizens. According to all sociological studies, the most important issue, which most concerns people is unemployment, and if in a year we are able to reduce unemployment by 637 000 people, I think we are doing something very positive. You say that Spain has an important level of unemployment. Yes, but now it has a much less important level of unemployment than when we arrived at the government, because we were able to reduce it by more than two million. I believe that this supports the Government's position and allows me to say that the balance sheet is very reasonable. You talk about Alicia in Wonderland, and I tell her... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u9	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, MAY WE COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT IN SPAIN IS COMPLETED AND APPLICABLE WHAT THE CONSTITUTION SAYS? [[File number 180/00491]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u10	He also asks the President of the Government, of the deputy Fr. Pablo Iglesias Turrión, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, do you consider that in Spain what the Constitution says is fulfilled and applied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u13	Thank you very much. I am pleased, Mr. Churches, that you ask me that question, because you have never, unless I know, been a great enthusiast of the Constitution. I'm telling you very seriously, and I'm also going to tell you that I'm going to answer you very seriously. In Spain, the Constitution is complied with and applied, and the best example has been seen a few days ago, because in an exceptional situation, when the constitutional principles were intended to be settled, the Constitution, article 155, was applied to restore legality and full force in a part of the national territory. It is a pity that you did not cooperate, that you decided to go to the Constitutional Court, which will tell us whether or not it applies and how the Constitution applies. That has a very positive aspect, and is that you have used an instrument that allows you to use the Constitution, which is a further sign that the Constitution applies and that you use it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u14	Mr. Churches, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank you for the constructive tone of your response. I have the feeling that you sometimes use the Spanish Constitution as if it were a flag and, as you yourself would say, if you read the Constitution you will see that it says things like, for example, those in article 20, where the rights to freedom of expression, thought, ideas and opinions are recognized and protected by word or writing. However, you have made a law with which humorists, cartoonists, tweeters and musicians are prosecuted and condemned in this country. [[Applauds]] That's right, it looks like the Earth Army tanks are at the disposal of any brainless person who wants to threaten. Let's see if Mrs. Cospedal will ever explain to us what our army tanks are used for. It seems that to lend them to a fascist brain, it is possible to use the tanks. [[Applauds]] I'm still reading him. Article 31: 'All shall contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure in accordance with their economic capacity through a fair tax system inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness'. In Spain, however, real taxes are paid by workers, self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises. Meanwhile, his Government made unconstitutional tax amnesties, did not pursue fraud, allowed large companies with subsidiaries in tax havens and some of his party members had accounts in Switzerland, Andorra or companies in Panama, Mr. Mariano Rajoy. Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution: 'All Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing'. But in Spain there are 187 evictions a day while you sell empty buildings to financial vultures. Article 50 of the Constitution: 'The public authorities shall ensure, by means of adequate and regularly updated pensions, the economic sufficiency of citizens during their senior years'. But you have turned off the rise in CPI pensions, reducing the purchasing capacity of our pensioners. Mr M., you can give the order to Spanish Television to call them constitutionalists, but you are not: neither were you in 1978 nor are you now. And I assure you one thing: if you try to change the Constitution again, as with Article 135, we assure you that there will be a referendum in Spain... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u17	Mr. Churches, although I see you now as a constitutional enthusiast, which I welcome, I think there are some things that you have not yet understood well. The first is that who says whether the Constitution is fulfilled or not, it is not you or me, it is the Constitutional Court. And you know why? Because the Constitution itself says so. So if you believe that the Constitution is not being complied with, you have an obligation to go to the Constitutional Court, which will tell you whether or not you are right. It has an obligation to do so, as was the case with article 155 of the Constitution. If you say that it is not fulfilled in all the cases to which you referred in your speech, it is clear that others can think, and rightly so, that you are not fulfilling your obligation, that it is to go to the Constitutional Court to denounce all that you have just said here. I therefore welcome - I insist - her return to the constitutional fold, but I would like her to be defended using the instruments she provides. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF MR CARLES CAMPUZANO I CANADAS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE PRESIDENT ADMIT THAT THE FUTURE OF CATALUNE RELATIONS WITH SPAIN WILL NOT BE RESOLVED Or by the reprimand or by the 155th but by the diálogo? [[File number 180/00482]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u18	Question from the congressman... [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Question by Mr Campuzano i Canades, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group, also to the President. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I refer to the text on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. As you know as well as I do, in 1978 the Constitution was adopted in this House, and then by the Spanish people as a whole. The Constitution is the rules of play, the rules of coexistence that we give among all in order to live in a civilized way and to make progress together. And since then, since 1978, there has been dialogue in Spain, and there has been much dialogue within the law, even the laws have been changed. I think that the balance of these forty years has been very positive, Spain experienced the best stage of its modern history in terms of economic growth and also in terms of social progress. This ceased to be the case when, unfortunately, at least in my opinion, some rulers decided that in their community the Constitution did not govern, nor did the status of autonomy apply, they invented new legislation, they did not allow the opposition to speak, and they also ignored court decisions. At that time these people decided that they were above the law and that they could do whatever they wanted. At that time the dialogue ceased, and article 155, which is in the Constitution adopted in 1978, served to restore the primacy of the law and the rights of individuals and to prevent the law from becoming the law of the strongest. I hope that things will become normal soon and that we can - as we have done in recent years since 1978 - have a normal and civilized dialogue as is the case in all democracies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u22	Mr. Campuzano i Canadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, in response to our demands for political dialogue, you have, during these years, paralyzed yourself in the argument of respect for the law and that we could not impose on you the holding of a referendum in Catalonia. But, Mr President, I must remind you that the law responds to the democratic principle, needs the consent of citizens to be applied and must respond to the social reality. In 1976 - more than forty years ago - someone said: Raising to the political category of normal what at street level is fully normal. Mr President, what is normal and common sense in Catalonia is to raise to the category of law by political agreement the will of Catalans to decide their political future in a referendum. It is the demand that will surely win the elections again in the 21st of December; it is the common sense in Catalonia. Mr President, you cannot prevent that majority wish of Catalan society from being channeled. You have a democratic obligation with the new rulers of Catalonia, with the new Parliament of Catalonia to negotiate that mandate. What is not to be received, Mr President, is what is not democratic, what is not fair is the policy that you have implemented during these years: the policy of letting go of time for this matter to dissolve like a soufflé, blocking all the political initiatives of the Catalan Parliament that tried to channel that demand, then intervening in the finances of the Generalitat, violently suppressing the exercise of the rights of the citizens on October 1, not having yet apologized for that violence, encouraging the march of certain companies in Catalonia, consenting to the speech of the hatred of the 'a for them' that some of your colleagues have thrown away, imprisoning innocent people, promoting the witch hunt that we are living these days or dissolving a legitimate Parliament based on a legitimate democratic mandate, as it was that was born from the polls in Catalonia in September 2015. Mr President, I ask you to abandon authoritarianism and dialogue with the institutions in Catalonia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. I think this is not the first debate we have on this issue in this House, we have also spoken on numerous occasions in the Senate. I will only tell you one thing, the first obligation that a President of the Government or a Government has and even this House is law enforcement. And what is not democratic is not the failure to comply with the law; what is not democratic is to liquidate the law and also to leave the citizens without their rights, and with the decisions taken by the Government of Catalonia and those adopted in the Parliament of Catalonia what has been done is to deprive all citizens of deciding what they want to be their own country, Spain. You speak of dialogue, I am prepared to dialogue, I have always been, but the dialogue that has been raised to me since the Generalitat of Catalonia, and which we have also heard of in this House, was a referendum yes or a referendum yes. You'll understand that with that kind of approach... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. - DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT KEEP HIS COMMITMENTS RELATING TO DEMOCRATIC REGENERATION SIGNED IN THE INVESTIGATION AGREEMENT? [[File number 180/00483]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u27	Question now to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u28	Minister, we allow the investiture of the President of the Government in exchange for an agreement with specific measures; of one hundred and fifty agreed measures, nothing less than twenty-seven had to do with the fight against corruption, with transparency, with democratic regeneration. One of these measures is a reform of the State Contracts Act which has been carried out, but which has not just materialized, has not just been implemented. We have a feeling that the Government is dragging its feet on this issue, so I would like to ask you whether the Government maintains its commitment to democratic regeneration contained in the specific measures of the investment agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u29	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u30	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Girauta, last week I had the opportunity to answer a similar question from the Socialist Group, which was concerned about the health of the agreement reached between the People's Party and citizens, and I will reiterate our commitment and our will in this regard. It is certainly a question of value in which state of execution an agreement of one hundred and fifty measures is found. We are in the first year of the four years of the legislature and our perception is that we are working properly, we are developing concrete aspects and, therefore, we are implementing and we are fulfilling with commitment and believing what we signed now something more than a year ago because, certainly, Spain's democratic regeneration project is for us all and we are particularly interested in the Government and the People's Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Girauta, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u32	The main difference with today's question is that we sign that agreement; we sign it Don Rafael Hernando and myself, and although third parties may be interested in the health of others' agreements, that is not the important thing. We ourselves have put forward initiatives to adopt measures such as the protection of whistleblowers, the prohibition of granting pardons to those convicted of corruption, the limitation of the mandate of the President of the Government, the regulation of lobbies, the elimination of political harassment, the reform of the funding regime for political parties, we have promoted the creation of a commission of inquiry for the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party, which has actually been achieved, but not if I can understand an important reticence, but there is that reticence. I am therefore very interested to know whether you, and with regard to all the measures I am presenting to you, continue to maintain the will to comply with the agreements, pacta sunt servanda, we have signed it. Please tell us what we can expect about this. Before my time runs out, forgive me, but I do not want to miss the opportunity to condemn with all revulsion and real disgust the crime of hate, the murder for hate that has taken place in Zaragoza, where Victor Láinez has been killed by his back for displaying the colors of the flag of Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u33	Minister, go ahead. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u34	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I absolutely support your repudiation of the violence of this murder, as well as all kinds of insults that are taking place in an election campaign about candidates, about people who are democratically asserting their opinions and ideas. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, we have four years to comply with the agreement. One of those four years has passed and twenty-seven measures are under way. We are working on the bill presented by the Citizens' Group and, look, while it is being passed, while it is being applied as a legal rule, we are trying to make that the daily practice of pardons. We are exercising the competence of the Government so that there is not a single pardon no longer in crimes of corruption, but not in matters of gender-based violence, fiscal or tax crime, in road safety. Therefore, with the daily practice of government activity, we are believing that we believe in what we have signed and will continue to make progress in that regard. The proposed law they have tabled is receiving amendments because, while it is true that pacta sunt servanda, its application will have to be interpreted together and it is logical that there may be some nuances, amendments and even discrepancies, why not, since an agreement of one hundred and fifty measures as broad as the one we sign and as ambitiously have details in which we will find agreements. I am sure that we will make progress on that bill and on others, knowing that we have difficulties. The abolition of the embargoes, the modification of autonomous statutes or of the Constitution itself, of course, are not just about you and us, we need more support for this, but, I insist, our commitment is firm and determined because we believe in the contents of the agreement we signed, throughout the agreement, and in particular in this third bloc of democratic regeneration. [[Applauds]] - of Mr Josep Vendrell Gardenes, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, we can in common, which forms the Government: what financial measures does the Government intend to adopt to pay for the public transport crisis? [[File number 180/00494]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u35	Question to the Minister for Development. Question by Mr Josep Vendrell Gardeñes, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u36	Thank you, President. This question, Minister, concerns rights, the right to mobility, the right to efficient and accessible public transport, and the right to healthy cities. Because there is no right every year for 3500 deaths directly associated with traffic pollution to occur in the metropolitan area of Barcelona; because there is no right for all citizens to end up paying a substantial fine from the European Commission for non-compliance with the Air Quality Directive; because there is no right for public transport users to increasingly assume the cost of an essential service to reduce the pollution caused by the use of the private vehicle. And all this for lack of State funding, while local governments comply. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u37	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u38	Minister, what financial response will the Government give to the public transport crisis affecting cities such as Barcelona, Valencia or Madrid? What response will the Government give to the request to increase state funding in the transport of the metropolitan area of Barcelona, which in September, by letter, the Generalitat, the metropolitan area and the City of Barcelona made to the Government and to which Minister Montoro has not yet responded? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u39	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain silent and please take your seats. [[Pause]] Your Honor, I'm waiting for you to feel... stay on your feet... [[Pause]] Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Vendrell. Firstly, let me say that I do not share your view that public transport is in crisis. I do not know what crisis we are talking about because the data we have on transport that is the responsibility of the General Administration of the State, of ours, is of growth of that transport: in the service of proximity, by 5,4 %; the data of the AVE of December are already at 8,2 %, the port of Barcelona is growing at a rate of 23 %; and in the case of air transport, the situation of El Prat - slightly inferior to the general network of AENA - is at 7,1 %. This is the part that belongs to us, because urban transport does not have the competence of the General Administration of the State. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that we are contributing EUR 218 million this year: EUR 110 million precisely in relation to the service of proximity and the service of medium distance and EUR 108 million - we have raised the budget this year, I think I remember that by 10% - precisely to finance transport within what is the Metropolitan Transport Authority of Barcelona. We have no competence, but we have, even if you do not allow us to participate in that consortium; we only do so as observers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u41	Mr. Vendrell, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u42	Look, minister, what is not worth making is statements in favour of combating climate change and pollution, and then doing nothing. The solution is to encourage public transport and limit the use of the private vehicle. The problem, the government's lack of investment to ensure affordable prices. In ten years the T-10, the most used transport document, was increased by 71%. It has been frozen for three years thanks to the Barcelona City Council's effort, which has increased its contribution by 50%, i.e. EUR 46 million, while the Government has drastically reduced its contribution by 50%, i.e. EUR 100 million less, and only in the last year it has increased by EUR 10 million, which are far from the necessary contributions to the financial balance of public transport in the metropolitan area: a contempt for the needs of the majority. We have for years had an absurd mobility policy based on the culture of the ball, with motorways rescued with public money or empty AVE stations as investments in the mobility of the majority, public transport, were reduced. Communities like Extremadura lack a decent rail network. Minister, change the verb: instead of speaking Catalonia, what you must do is invest in Catalonia, which is your competence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u43	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Vendrell. Well, I'll change the verb in the replica. Investments in Catalonia, for example, in public transport: connection from the T-1, which is precisely to connect with the metro network, 285 million euros - you can go to check it, is the tunneller running at full performance -; we will start the works of access to La Sagrera and the station of La Sagrera in a few days and with a total investment of 430 million euros; I give you the good news that we have just finished, a few days ago, the great work of the Mediterranean corridor from Tarragona to Vandellós, which will be able to reduce public transport by Euromed in half an hour, and we have already started the period of circulation in tests; we are in the process of starting the works of Castellbisbal-Vilaseca, with an investment of 367 million euros; we have, by the way, roads worth 757 million euros in execution, and you are the ones that have the most tolls on highways and much more expensive than in the rest of the national territory. Therefore, facts like these show that the government's policy is precisely going to favor...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u45	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE DON MANUAL CRUZ RODRIGUEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: WHY HAS YOUR MINISTRY DECIDED, THROUGH THE YEAR, TO RECHANGE THE ABILITATION CRITERIA FOR THE PERMANENT UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR, AMENDED A YEAR AGO? [[File number 180/00489]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u46	Questions now to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Question by Mr Manuel Cruz Rodríguez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u47	Thank you, President. Minister, now a year ago the Aneca changed the criteria for the qualification of university faculty. Here's how you justified it then: We have changed them - he said - to ensure a stable and sustainable system. Let me begin by saying that very little stability has guaranteed your ministry since a few months later you have decided to change those criteria again. He then announced, as a star measure of his response, that he would propose the setting up of a working group to study the matter. The result is to be seen: the experts themselves, both from the Aneca and the universities, have agreed, in a virtually unanimous manner, that the new criteria, in addition to arbitrary ones, introduce requirements, in more than one case, of impossible compliance. Mr Minister, all you are getting with your performance is to plunge university professors into deep discouragement at the lack of expectations with which to face their professional future, thus jeopardizing the very quality of university education. What is the purpose of your ministry to condemn the precariousness of most teachers in this country? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u48	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The goal of the ministry is exactly the opposite: to ensure a process of accreditation and transparency enabling the quality of the education system to be improved and, therefore, as you have recalled, at the end of 2016, I committed myself in this House precisely to analyzing and studying the criteria for accreditation of university staff in order to achieve a more transparent process and facilitate accreditation of university faculty. That's what we've done, what Aneca's done. Over the course of this year we have met on 16 occasions with the Conference of Rectors of Spanish Universities and with the trade unions and these meetings have resulted in a number of criteria that have been incorporated on 24 November on the official website of Aneca. What we want, therefore, is more transparency and facilitation of accreditation, and I hope that with these new criteria we will achieve it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u51	Thank you, President. Minister, I was afraid. You just believed - never better said - once again that you are a accomplished specialist in the art of throwing balls out and this is another feature that differentiates you from your predecessor. But I'll tell you by paraphrasing the title of Naomi Klain's book: It's not enough not to be Wert, especially because there are models that compete with Mr. Wert's in terms of his terrible results. I am thinking of the model of political action embodied by Mr Rajoy, which consists in letting the problems rot until the situation is completely unbearable, at which time he comes to seek the help of the opposition, appealing to his sense of state to remove the chestnuts from the fire. Do you know why that model is disastrous? Because the bill of so much indolence ends up being paid by citizens, and that's what we're having more than reliable evidence of lately. Pay attention to me, Minister, you have decided from the beginning not to be Wert, resign now to be... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u52	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Let me be myself, you know what Don Miguel de Montaigne said: He is him and I am me. Let me try to be me. The evaluation criteria have not been established by this ministry, they will be established by the twenty-one commissions of experts created through the new regulation; they are commissions formed by drawing lots between professors and university holders with accredited experience in the evaluation of the university system. What do we intend to do? So have more transparency and more specialization. That's why we moved from five commissions in 2007, when you were ruling, to twenty-one expert commissions. That is why the criteria will be known and the evaluators will also, not as before, not know each other, which could create defencelessness. Besides, what have we done too? The new criteria make it possible to compensate between different areas of evaluation in teaching, research and management in order to be able to be accredited professors and holders, because the old criteria were very rigid, they were not flexible and, therefore, someone who was a Nobel prize dedicated to research, as he had no teaching, could not be accredited, now he will be. We therefore believe that we have improved the conditions and, above all, what we have also said is that those who are on the waiting list and who want to be accredited in accordance with the old rules will be able to do so and the next ones will be able to do so in accordance with the new criteria. We have also established a safeguard clause: within a year, with a group we have created with the conference of directors and the unions we will evaluate it, and if we see that it is not good, we will make modifications. This government has demonstrated flexibility and capacity... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u54	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEBA ANDONI AGIRRETXEA URRRESTI, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: HOW DOES THE POSSIBLE INCORPORATION IN THE FUTURE COVENANT OF STATE FOR THE EDUCATION OF A NEW REGULATORY OF THE HIGH INSPECTION VALUES? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00498]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u55	Question also addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport of the deputy Joseba Andoni Agirretxea Urresti of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. Go ahead, Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, my group is very concerned that your party and, consequently, your Government will introduce into a new pact for education new functions and powers to the so-called High Educational Inspectorate, so I would like to know how you appreciate that possibility.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u57	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u58	Thank you, Madam President. The result of the investiture agreement was the launch of the study of a social and political state pact for education, and also the result of that investiture agreement and with the agreement of all political groups was constituted a subcommission in the Congress of Deputies that is working, which is carrying out the analysis of it. I said in the Committee on Education that it seemed to me positive that we should go to that subcommittee to analyse what education in Spain has been like in the last 40 years and how the educational model works, and I think we need to analyse it without glasses, seeing what has been done right, what has been done wrong and what can be improved. And the educational inspection, Mr. Questioner, is one of the issues on the table. My group has tabled a non-legislative proposal in this House - also in other autonomous parliaments - because it believes that this is an issue that deserves reconsideration and consideration. Therefore, the result will be the result of the agreement reached by the subcommission, because I insist that the pact must be the pact of all and must be all involved in it. It is therefore on the table and we shall see what gives the debate itself. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, as you yourself said, a few weeks ago in this plenary, a non-law proposal was put forward by your group asking for new powers for the High Inspectorate to, inter alia, enable it to act on its own initiative, to carry out requests and inspections in educational establishments, to prepare reports on decisions taken by the Education Administration regarding the verification of curricular subjects, linguistic subjects, etc., and also to have sanctioning capacity. The situation, of course, does not happen by chance, nothing happens by chance, and the situation that we are experiencing and that we have lived in Catalonia for you has been ideal to lean towards an authoritarian and tax drift that more than a pact generates a huge disagreement and is contrary to the capacity and competence that we have in educational matters, for example, in Euskadi. For this reason, education and training of people are materialized through the exclusive competences of all educational and cultural policies at all levels. There are shared aspects between the State and the autonomous communities, which means that, with the exception of those aspects that are the exclusive competence of the State, the rest is autonomous. But what's going on? That the State is increasingly assigning more powers and we fear that the future in this respect is increasingly bleak. We already have our own inspection that performs its work rigorously and professionally, and we do not need a new big brother to look after subjective criteria interpreted by one of the parties. We are afraid that this new role of the High Inspectorate has been invented in order to widen the power of the State, diminishing that of the autonomous communities in the field of education or, at least, that of some. In addition to the fact that it seems out of place and with a clear centralizing political intention, it also questions the work of professionals who are already exercising this function, because the legislation already establishes the role of each one, there is no need for new powers for those who do not have them. Or maybe behind all this is purely ideological intentionality? In any case, we're not going to accept or allow...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u61	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u62	Thank you, Madam President. As you have recalled, the educational inspection operates on two levels: at the level of the autonomous community and at the level of the high inspection that depends on the ministry. Article 151 of the LOE establishes the responsibility of educational administrations in the supervision and control of the functioning of the centres, the supervision of teaching practice or the enforcement of the legal order affecting the education system. How does this system work right now? The High Inspectorate, if it encounters a complaint, does send a letter to the educational inspection of the autonomous community and, if it is not satisfied with the answer, does so through a request and, if not, goes to court. Is it a good system to guarantee the rights of families, the rights of pupils and the rights of schools? I think it's a slow, proceelous system that takes a long time. Can we make it any better? I believe that that is what pacts, subcommittees and the possibilities of finding a way to speed it up to guarantee the rights of people, to guarantee the rights of families and to guarantee the rights of teachers, which is what matters to us. So, all I'm asking is that we have a broad look, that we analyze what... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u63	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY OF THE RESULT OF HER MANAGEMENT FOR THE USE OF WOMEN? [[File number 180/00486]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u64	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Firstly, a question from Mrs Adriana Lastra Fernández of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, when you came to the government in 2011, women in unemployment accounted for 50% of total unemployment. Today, seven years later, that percentage has increased to 57.8% of the total, 7 points more than then and 2 more than last November. Point-by-point and year-by-year, this percentage is growing, that is, it is already becoming a trend without this Government taking any measures to alleviate a problem that has its own profile, which is nothing other than the feminization of unemployment and, therefore, of poverty, and that is why we are asking this question. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u66	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, to take stock is indeed to compare the situation we are in when we arrive and what is happening in our country today thanks to the efforts of Spanish society. When we reach the Government, women's employment is destroyed every day, and jobs are created today with intensity, so much so that we have been able as a society to recover all the women's employment destroyed by the crisis. Moreover, there are 8.5 million women working in Spain today, more women than ever in our economic history. When we arrived at the government, Your Honor, Spain generated 67% of all unemployment in the European Union and today it is the country that most reduces unemployment, one in two Europeans who enter unemployment are not Spanish. Thirdly, when we arrived at the government, indefinite recruitment fell by 33 per cent among women; today it rises to 7 per cent. So when it comes to taking stock, thinking about women, it seems to me to be positive. If you want, recovery in Spain is a female recovery. Much remains to be done, but there are certainly more opportunities for women in our country today than ever before, Your Honor. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u68	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Mrs. Lastra.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I don't know if you're not aware of the reality or just don't care. What is really worrying is that it does not take any measures to alleviate these situations. Unemployment in November increased again for the fourth consecutive month. But, in any case, the worrying thing about this unemployment figure is that of women. I will give you the data; of the 7255 new unemployed registered last month, 286 are men and 6969 are women. I'm going to round it up: less than 300 men, almost 7,000 women. This means that 96% of the new unemployed last month are precisely women. The labour reform, its labour reform, is being tested with all the workers in the country, as we have explained many times, but especially with women. The low female employment generated in this country is precarious, temporary and poorly paid, with an unusual gender gap between men and women. There is a difference of 15 percentage points in favour of men in full-time indefinite contracts. Of the total part-time temporary employment, 66% is done by women. We don't know what's going on, but during their governments they keep growing all the gaps that hurt women. The female labour force has fallen for the first time in recent history and is today below the 2011 figures. The wage gap has grown by more than 400 euros, Minister, and the employment gap between men and women continues to grow. Far from worrying, what you are doing is coming here with satisfaction and making a retroactive opposition that has nothing to do with what we are talking about now. Moreover, right now, Minister, you are opposing yourself. You've been ruling for six years, minister. Solve this at once. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u70	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, you have asked me to take stock and to take stock is to compare and I have done so. I am very proud to be a member of Mariano Rajoy's government and to be able to say that in Spain in 2017 there are more women working than ever and all the female employment that destroyed a socialist government in Spain has been recovered. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I understand that you are not familiar with the November unemployment data, but it is not true that companies have thrown women out in a massive way in November. The data are strong; of those who entered unemployment in November, 424 513, 50.15% were men and 49.85% were women. Thus, more men than women entered unemployment. Do you know what happened? Who came out more men than women. That 2% difference in unemployment exit is what you refer to in your question, but women are not massively entering unemployment in our country. Your Honor, what is happening in Spain today is that all the gaps are being corrected; the gender gap in occupation and the wage gap are also being corrected... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u72	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MERITXELL BATET LAMANA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT IS THE BALANCE OF YOUR SOCIAL SECURITY POLICY? [[File number 180/00487]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u73	Question from Mrs Meritxell Batet Lamaña, from the Socialist Group, also to the Minister, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u74	Thank you, President. Mrs Báñez, she has been a minister for six years and the balance of her management in the field of social security could be summarized in three figures: she inherited a deficit of 1 billion and currently has it close to 18,000; 1000 and 18,000. He inherited an increase in the minimum pension which in seven years was put at 53% plus, and you in six years at 6% plus, 53% and 6%. It has inherited a reserve fund with almost 70 billion euros, and today we are in debt; 70 000 and zero. What's your balance sheet, Minister? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u75	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, we are in a Spain which has a public system of contributory and solidarity-sharing pensions. And when we get to the government, in fact, we find, for the first time in our history, frozen pensions. Since then they have risen every year and today more pensions are paid, to more pensioners and higher than ever before. [[Protests]] [[Protests]] That's the balance sheet of Mariano Rajoy's government...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u77	One second, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent and respect the speaker at every moment; if not, I will be forced to call you one by one. And, please, those who do not want to remain silent, who leave the Chamber; this is not a chattering place, I have already told you on some occasion. We represent all the Spaniards and they are seeing us; the Spaniards look at us and try to ensure that there is so much disrespect. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, we are in fact inheriting a deficit pension system. Today, in Spain, 9 out of 10 euros of pension expenditure are paid with employment. Do you know why there was a pension deficit? Because more than three and a half million jobs were lost in the crisis, that is the cause of the social security deficit. What did this government do? Making a change towards growth and employment and what is new today in Spain is that for each new pension in the system six jobs are created; when you ruled, for every pension that entered the system three jobs are destroyed. We are creating jobs with intensity; we have recovered 65% of the jobs destroyed by the crisis, but we have to do all of them. Today there is a special change and it is that the income of Social Security, thanks to growth and employment, will be historical record this year and we are fixing with growth and employment that deficit that the Socialist Party has left us. But we are all going to guarantee today's pensions and tomorrow's pensions, in that growth, in that employment and in the Toledo Pact. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u80	Thank you. I will explain it in three words: harmful labour reform, which does not solve the lives of workers because they have precarious conditions with ridiculous wages. They've cut the job, Minister; let the self-condemnation, they've cut the job. It does not solve the problem of current pensions because with garbage contracts there is not enough income and, moreover, today's low wages announce tomorrow's low pensions. A precarious and unequal labour market is being dangerously consolidated in our country. We must create quality jobs, Minister, and that is why we must change the labour reform that you approved. [[Applauds]] But, I will tell you the most serious; the most serious thing is that in the face of this desolating, unquestionable panorama, you have not presented a future project for this country and for the Social Security System. Madam Minister, pensions do not go up, the deficit increases, the reserve fund is settled and, in addition, the pensions of the future are endangered because workers today have ridiculous salaries. They have not proposed a single revenue-raising measure, which is where the problem lies, Minister. In short, they do not have a project for the future, they do not have a project for the workers of this country or for the pensioners of this country. The most important factor in the sustainability of the Social Security System is for you to leave the Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u81	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Batet, I ask you to look better at the figures before coming here, because all the jobs recovered from the crisis are full-time, employment in Spain is not being cut. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u83	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u84	Today there are, Mrs Batet, thanks to the effort of Spanish society 19 million occupied in Spain, and with 19 million this year we will have record social security income, with a million less than at our best before the crisis. Therefore, something will be doing well for this government. Lessons from the Socialist Party on pensions, excuse me, I won't allow them, because they froze pensions for the first time in our country.. [[Protests]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u85	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u86	... because they left the system in deficit and this government had to come to give peace, peace and security to the Spanish pensioners. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u87	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY, TO THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHO WILL BE DIRECTED BY THE SOCIAL TARJET THAT HAS ANNOUNCED THAT THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY WILL IMPLEMENT THE NEXT YEAR? [[File number 180/00492]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u88	Question by Mrs Isabel Franco Carmona, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u89	Thank you, President. Minister, to whom is the social card that your ministry wants to implement next year addressed?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u90	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, thank you for your question. The social card is a key to access a public register of benefits that exists in the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, which will allow every Spanish citizen - because it is universal - to know at all times the benefits he receives from all public administrations. Therefore, we will immediately know which person needs urgent attention because he is in a situation of vulnerability, but it is a universal card. Despite being an access key, it is also a system that believes in real time before any Administration and any private entity the subjective condition of the person who has it. For example, to be self-employed, to be a member of a large family, to be registered in the Youth Guarantee, to be long-term unemployed or to be a pensioner. In this way, public administrations will be able to make better social policies and people will benefit from any public or private social benefit to third parties. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs. Franco, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u93	Thank you. Your explanations do not convince you, Minister. You know the social card is generating a huge rejection. You say that the card will be universal and yet your ministry says that this card will only be for people who receive some kind of benefit or their family members. That's not universality, Minister, that's a poor card. [[Applauds]] I'm going to ask you to go to the San Blas unemployed assembly, where the most precarious families have to go even to cut their hair and talk to them before implementing this measure. You stick to the argument of improved management, but it turns out that it is enough with the e-government and the state registry of benefits. What needs to be done is to develop them in accordance with existing legislation. This card for what it does serve is to control people who are in the greatest vulnerability, stigmatizing poverty with it. With it both public bodies and private foundations will be able to access your data. Don't call improved management what is control and distribution of misery. This card doesn't help to control fraud either. Studies such as the one in Euskadi show that there is only 0.26% real fraud in the benefits, far from the EUR 90 billion that is carried away each year from corruption, and far from the 114 billion that goes to tax havens every year. Citizenship does not disappoint, minister, the really urgent control must be directed to those who have an account in Panama and to the corruption of parties such as yours, the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Citizenship does not need its social card, no more precarious jobs or aid of misery, but quality jobs and a comprehensive reform of the benefit system that guarantees rights, also comply with articles 39.1 and 40.1 of the Spanish Constitution, so that no one in our country suffers evictions or goes cold in winter or has to live of charity. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u94	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, the social card is social innovation, it is a universal social card that benefits all citizens, without exception. [[Rumors]] Don't put scornful grades on it because it is a great element of social innovation and of the sum of all administrations to promote the daily lives of citizens, Your Honor. It is a mandate that we, as a Government, receive from the Conference of Presidents, with the aim of summarizing in order to give greater service and well-being to citizens. It is in the social dialogue and has been consulted with the most representative trade unions and the employer and we are also working intensively with and in coordination with the autonomous communities. Your Honor, as I have told you, this card is a great universal instrument in our country to create social welfare and to make social innovation, so that all public administrations - national, autonomous or local - we can make efficient management, benefiting the citizen, and so that civil society can give social benefits to citizens having that real-time accreditation element that gives them the opportunity to access any kind of... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u96	Thank you very much. - THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO ROLDÁN MONÉS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT MEASURES DO YOU THINK THE GOVERNMENT TO TALK TO THE WORK PRECARITY OF YOUNG PEOPLE IN OUR COUNTRY? [[File number 180/00484]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u97	He also asked the Minister of the Member of Parliament, Mr Antonio Roldán Monés, of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u98	Thank you, President. Minister, I wanted to ask you about the precariousness in Spain. Do you know what number of contracts are signed in our country each year? 20 million contracts are signed, of which 5 million are destroyed in less than a week. It's what you start to know as the precarious. We live in a system, which particularly suffers young people, in which it is virtually impossible for people under the age of thirty - for people of my generation - to progress in life, have children and make investments in human capital in companies so that they themselves can progress. We have a system that systematically discriminates against young people in our country, and it is a coincidence that Europe has offered us a mechanism to fight this scourge that we have. This mechanism is called European Youth Guarantee. The European Youth Guarantee had 8 billion, of which one third was for Spain, because Spain had almost one third of the young unemployed throughout Europe. The European Commission said that by the end of 2015 the government had used 2% of that Youth Guarantee money and a year later, by the end of 2016, it says that we are the second worst country in Europe in the use of the European Youth Guarantee. In the meantime, you and I, our parliamentary groups, have agreed on a wage supplement to dignify wages and to provide training to young people using this Youth Guarantee. We have not only agreed but also announced it. When do you expect the minister to bring that orange supplement to the House? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u99	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u100	Thank you very much, honourable Member. I begin by thanking you for the question and making two clarifications. Mr Roldán, today in Spain 74% of those working have an indefinite contract, three out of four. Contracts with a duration of less than one month, including hourly and weekly contracts, account for 0.89 % of the total contracts in Spain. Do I care? A lot, but it's 0.89%. From there, what I've learned these years, Your Honor, is that adding wills always multiplies the opportunities for the Spaniards and especially with the youth theme. We have done so on the initiative of the Government at the beginning of the last parliamentary term, with the Entrepreneurship and Youth Employment Strategy, which has already given more than a million and a half opportunities for training, guidance and employment to young people, and we have also done so with the European Youth Guarantee. Mariano Rajoy was one of the presidents of government who fought the most for these funds for young people in Europe. It is true that Spain has benefited greatly from this Youth Guarantee, with EUR 6 billion, but it is also true, Your Honor, that our country will not lose a euro of certification of these funds. When it comes to certifying us at the end of this year, we will scrupulously comply with the European commitment we have. We have launched many initiatives, worked in the social dialogue, worked in the dialogue with the Autonomous Communities and their parliamentary group. We have agreed on a plan to shock youth employment with the trade unions and the employer, which includes precisely that supplementary aid of EUR 430. Having not had budgets for 2018 to date and having had to extend them leads us to have to start it in the first part of the year, when finally - in that I trust - the budgets for the year 2018 can be launched. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u101	Mr. Roldán, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u102	Minister, we must not only fight things, we must also implement them. Since we have the money, let's use it well. Others make diagnoses all the time and want to repeal labour reforms; I am proposing a modern labour market, a labour market that allows, with institutions that work elsewhere and with policies that work elsewhere, to reintegrate a greater number of young people, a potential number of huge young people. We are talking about half a million young people who could benefit from this salary supplement. I hope that next time it will be more concrete. We don't need the budget. Bring the royal decree and as soon as it's approved we'll find the money, hopefully with the support... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u103	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u104	Thank you very much, President. The measures for youth employment are working, there are 960 000 registered in the Youth Guarantee and 45% have already found employment with all the measures put in place. The government's commitment is that at the beginning of 2018 we can bring, on the occasion of the budgets, that salary supplement that will undoubtedly also be a great opportunity for Spanish youth. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u105	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF JORGE FERNANDEZ DÍAZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT EVALUATION DOES THE GOVERNMENT ON THE INDEPENDENT PROCESS' IMPLICATIONS ON THE INCREASE OF THE PARA IN CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/00496]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u106	Question by Mr Jorge Fernández Díaz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister of Employment and Social Security, in the collective independence imaginary and through the self-called revolution of smiles, the revolution of the sobriures, Catalonia was going to pass, becoming an independent republic, little more or less than a happy Arcadia, the closest to paradise on earth. Unfortunately for everyone, landing in reality could not be more abrupt. We have seen it in virtually all areas. In tourism, such an important sector for Spain, which makes it a world power, within which, as we know, Catalonia is the first autonomous community, we have seen how the rate of hotel occupancy has fallen to dramatic levels. We have learned about the departure of companies from Catalonia, which have transferred their registered offices to the rest of Spain. Finally, such a climate of legal insecurity and institutional instability had been created that the provision contained in article 155 of our Constitution had to be activated in order to restore that lost institutional stability, that lost legal security, and to regain certainty. The employment data we have recently seen show, unfortunately, that there is a marked difference between Catalonia and the rest of Spain and between the data that Catalonia itself had before last October and what we have now known. For example, in data on business start-ups, yesterday the National Institute of Statistics data came out, by which this business start-up in Catalonia fell in October in relation to the same period of the previous year by more than 14%, and so we could continue. But by focusing, Minister, on unemployment data, last month, November, the Catalan employment offices counted 7391 more unemployed. It is the worst November since 2009, and compared this year with the average recorded since 2008, it is estimated that the increase in unemployment in Catalonia is 48% higher than that average. So I ask you, Minister, what assessment the Government makes of the consequences of the independence process for the increase in unemployment in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u108	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank you very much for your question, because paradoxically Catalonia is an autonomous community driving recovery in Spain, it is the leading community in job creation since recovery. Since the recovery, 450,000 of the jobs destroyed by the crisis have been recovered in Catalonia - the one that has recovered most until September from all of Spain - but the independence process has stopped this engine of job creation. The Catalan Autonomous Community has been the victim of the instability and irrationality of a Government. So much so that in October employment in Catalonia fell by 70% compared to October 2016 and in November it went from having always created employment in that month to reducing it. Therefore, today we can say, tragically, that one out of every three jobs destroyed in Spain belongs to that autonomous community, which was an example for all of Spain. That, in terms of employment, but in terms of unemployment, as you said very well, between October and November this year unemployment increased in Catalonia, as never before on those same dates, by 22 000 people. It means 85% more than in 2016. As you have pointed out, November is the most significant increase since 2009 for that autonomous community. Therefore, this enterprising Catalonia, this job-creating Catalonia, needs Spain. I want to say now that 21 December is a great opportunity for Catalans to recover the most important thing, which is the opportunities and the pace of job creation, because that is what Catalan society demands most and that is what Spanish society also needs. I want to continue to say that the most important thing in terms of employment is to add up, and in Catalonia we still have more than 400 000 reasons, which are people who are standing still, to keep adding up everyone, and we have a great opportunity these coming dates. Thank you very much, honourable Member. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON PERE JOAN PONS SAMPIETRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT HIS MANAGEMENT HAS IMPROVED THE LIFE OF PERSONS? [[File number 180/00488]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u110	Questions now addressed to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by Mr Pere Joan Pons Sampietro from the Socialist Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u111	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, when it comes to taking stock, it is always going to be very good to do a bit of self-criticism, because the reality that Spanish families are experiencing is the best antidote for the euphoria that distils this government. The Socialist Group asks you to explain to the Spaniards what you have done in the last 12 months to improve the lives of the citizens of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u112	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u113	Thank you, President. Your Honor, in Spain we are in the fourth year of consecutive growth of our economy and in the third year in which we grow above 3%. All this growth is being translated into new jobs and behind each job there is a name, a surname, a family, a person. That's the best way to improve people's lives. The best social policy we can do is to create wealth, create employment, because that is the only way we will preserve the state of welfare, health, education, social policy and dependence. This is reality. They're facts. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Pons.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u115	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Minister. I told him to do some self-criticism, too. Let's go for points. I'm going to suggest nine points or questions. Do you think that in Spain there are better wages and better access to housing than a year ago? Minister Báñez spoke of rising wages. He's neither expected nor expected. We are at 6.7% levels of housing growth: we are in a bubble situation, with difficulty in accessing housing, and we are no longer talking about wages. Are young citizens, young Spaniards better than a year ago? We're at 40% unemployment levels. There is difficulty in accessing housing, low wages and, above all, little future for young people. What future is there for these young people? And the indefinite hiring what? What about those indefinite contracts that are UFOs today? There are three and a half million unemployed, 3% growth and 5% indefinite in the last wave. That's not going well, Minister. Has there been any change in social policy this year? Look at the Eurostat report on Friday: 29% of GDP at European level is devoted to social protection and, in Spain, 24%. Something's not right. And you think the pensioners in this country are better than a year ago? We have created young people without a future, you have created poor workers and you are creating poor pensioners, minister - and that is your responsibility - pensioners who are paying for the medicines of a universal health for which you are responsible, but you have the capacity to change it, minister. Have you seen the recent UGT report, which says that more than half of the people who do not have or are looking for work have no coverage? That's inadmissible, Minister. And what about the fifty-two-year-olds without a grant? Are they also part of this government's good record? I conclude, Madam Minister, with the latest report from the European Commission, which my colleagues have also mentioned. Remember that the European Commission has just put us at the forefront of inequality. That is the price of these months of People's Party government. With you the balance is that Spain is not going well. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u116	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u117	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I sincerely believe that you would have to self-criticise how you left Spain with 3.5 million unemployed and today's data are irrefutable. Up to October this year, 15% more jobs have been created than in 2016. He was talking to me about youth, because look at youth is better. Youth employment is growing by 12%, five times higher than the average population, and that means illusion. Of course we have to keep moving, but that's an improvement. We are more than ever the women we are working for, which means more equality for us and more income in our families. There are more people with disabilities with a job, which means that we have broken down more barriers; there is less poverty within families, the rate of poverty and social exclusion Arope has stopped and declined since 2014, and we have achieved all this with a social policy designed for families and their children. The tax reform has especially reduced the taxes paid by families with children; we have implemented the paternity permit and increased it to five weeks; the special activation programme for the unemployed has strengthened the protection of long-term unemployed with dependent children; mechanisms have been created to facilitate the restructuring of the mortgage debts of families; the Social Housing Fund has been established; and we have extended the social bonus discount for the most vulnerable consumers. We have launched a programme for the protection of child poverty, which has quadrupled its budget in just three years, reaching €60 million this year. We also think about older people. More pensions are paid, 600,000 more people than in 2011, and higher than ever, 16% more than in 2011. Pensions have gone up every year, we don't freeze them like you did. We think about people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u118	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA GUADALUPE MARTIN GONZALEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT WHO HAS COMPLETED WITH HIS OBLIGATIONS ON UNIVERSAL ACCESSIBILITY? [[File number 180/00490]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u119	She also asked the Minister of Mrs María Guadalupe Martín González of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u120	Thank you, President. Minister, do you consider the Government that has fulfilled its universal accessibility obligations?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u121	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u122	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I am aware of the difficulties faced by people with disabilities, those they have in their day-to-day life from the moment they get up to the moment they go out on the street. A universally accessible society is an objective that commits us all, the first to the Government of Spain - we are committed - but also to all the autonomous and local administrations, including those governed by its party, and to all the public and private institutions - companies, universities -. It is therefore up to everyone to achieve a barrier-free society. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Martin.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u124	Madam Minister, self-congratulation no longer surprises us. Let me ask you: Do you know what date it is today? Today is December 13, 2017 and it has already been nine days since the deadline, December 4, to meet the dates provided for in Royal Decree 1/2013. These dates were also reflected in Act No. 51/2003 on equal opportunities, non-discrimination and universal accessibility for persons with disabilities. The countdown started already in 2003, fourteen years ago, and the deadline is over. It is six years that the People's Party has been in government and, you see, minister, we have no excuses for the inheritance received, because you have squandered an inheritance of rights and freedoms. It is simply not one of its priorities, as has been demonstrated in its one-year delay in appearing in the Committee on Comprehensive Disability Policies. You have made no effort and the result is that the General Administration of the State has failed. They have not bothered to comply with the law, they have not made any economic effort in the budgets from 2012 to 2017 and we will see in 2018. They have not drawn up the nine-year accessibility plan, nor the three-year action phases, nor have they approved any regulatory developments, even the Cermi has submitted to the Supreme Court an administrative dispute against the Government of Spain. Do you know the minister that there are services and buildings of the State Administration that are not accessible? I am talking about technology, services, theatres, transport, public spaces and public service offices, including those of the Administration of Justice, which are inaccessible. Madam Minister, you must assume your management and, in this case, your non-compliance; you are responsible for what the Government does, but you are more responsible, if any, than you do not and you do not seem to intend to do. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u125	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u126	Thank you, President. We must all comply with the law, not only the General Administration of the State, not only the Government, also the autonomous communities, but also the municipalities. You were now quoting many competences that are not of the Government of Spain and also the three powers of the State, the Legislature, the Executive and the Judiciary. Universal accessibility implies the transformation of our society as a whole, a transformation that affects our normative structure, our way of educating, facilitating access to employment and the design of our streets, buildings and transport and communication networks. The first basic tool is employment. Between 2012 and 2016, a total of 1,300,000 new contracts for persons with disabilities have been signed; 258,000 contracts for persons with disabilities have already been signed in the first ten months of 2017, an increase of 16% over the same period in 2006, a year that was the record of the historical series. We are still in the right direction, because we encourage entrepreneurship and we have introduced social clauses in public procurement to make more people with disabilities work. The second important tool is education, which is a basic instrument that guarantees the autonomy of persons with disabilities. This is the first time that we are going to devote economic resources from abandoned bank balances and dormant accounts to finance the education and professional development of persons with disabilities. The third tool is physical accessibility. We need to improve the accessibility of all our services and infrastructures. The Government of Spain has made great efforts in this regard; for example, we have made the website of the General Administration of the State accessible, so we have received an award from the State Observatory of Disability, I would also like to remind you of the Atendo service of Renfe, and the AENA service, which has been awarded by the United Nations. I could go on, because the government is really committed to the law and to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u127	Thank you very much. - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT Mr Ramón GARCÍA CAÑAL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHAT EVALUATION MAKES THE GOVERNMENT ON THE LAST DATE OF HYPOTECARY EXECUTIONS? [[File number 180/00497]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u128	Question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness. Question by Mr José Ramón García Cañal, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, there are some political parties that today are still committed to repeating the mantra that, despite the economic measures implemented by the Government, the economic growth that Spain is experiencing does not reach the families, does not reach the people. One of the many indicators that show that it is not true, that growth does reach families, it does reach people, it does improve their problems is that of housing mortgages and serious eviction problems. This serious situation has been addressed by the People's Party Government from the very beginning. Since 2012, a number of measures have been taken to reduce the problems of evictions. While some were at the head of the anti-discharge demonstrations, while some were doing business with the evictions, financing themselves and making cash, first with money from South American governments and now with that of governments of related municipalities, the People's Party Government was taking steps to reduce and resolve situations of mortgage payment problems. More than 90,000 families have benefited from these measures taken by the Government, as have hundreds of thousands of people with the banking arbitration system to solve the problems of mortgage ground clauses without having to go to the fifty-two courts set up for this purpose. Thus, more than 450,000 mortgages of this type have been resolved. Some, in the poetry of anti-discharge demonstrations; the Government in the prose of solving people's problems. As the implementation of these measures is leading to a dramatic reduction in mortgage executions, I ask the Minister of the Economy: What is the Government's assessment of the latest data on mortgage executions in Spain? Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u130	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u131	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, as you have rightly indicated, the reduction of mortgage executions on habitual housing is being very important. According to the INE, between July and September, 60% less executions were started than in the same period of a year ago, and if we compare it with the worst time in the series, reached in the second quarter of 2014, the fall is 84%, Your Honor. Moreover, while at the worst time 29% of executions affected family homes, today that percentage is even 10 points lower. Allow me, Your Honor, to congratulate you on this information, since when we arrived at the Government six years ago, evictions were, together with the preferential ones, one of the most important social problems we had to face. The reduction in mortgage executions is largely the result of the initiatives that have been taken, which have benefited, as you indicated, some 90,000 families. It includes the code of good practice, which has received more than 51,000 debtors, with viable debt restructuring, write-offs and payments, as well as the Housing Social Fund, which has provided more than 9000 families with affordable rent. Also, since 2013, almost 28 000 families have been able to stay in their homes thanks to the suspension of launches. But beyond these measures, what really lies behind all this is the economic recovery and employment generation, and also the recovery of the housing price, which positively affects the wealth of Spanish families, which almost 80% own. In relation to the ground clauses, the out-of-court system that we established has allowed, according to data up to 30 September, a little over one million applications, of which 660,000 were valid, since they had ground clauses, and most importantly, in less than nine months agreements have been reached with 60% of the claimants. Thanks to them, almost 400 000 families have been able to recover 1750 million euros, 86% in cash. However, these results will continue to evolve and improve, as quarterly and semi-annually the monitoring committee has to assess and analyse how banks have been implementing this out-of-court system and, ultimately, I hope that the results will be even better than this first estimate we had at the end of September. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u132	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the questions addressed to the Government. Firstly, urgent debate by the Socialist Group on the measures to be taken to ensure the employability of young people and the quality of their employment and working conditions. For your defence, Mrs De Frutos Madrazo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u134	Good morning. In our intervention on youth employment, we will try to raise awareness on four basic issues. [[The Lord]] First, the insurmountable data of unemployed young people. Beyond the statistical data we all know, we will reflect on this issue. Secondly, the shameful situation of precariousness and exploitation in which our young people live, since in them the traditional problems of our labour market, such as partiality, temporaryity, wage devaluation, self-employment, and, on the other hand, issues which are their own, such as scholarships, non-work practices, contracts for training and learning in law fraud, are at stake. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u135	Wait a minute, Mrs. De Frutos. I ask you, please, to remain silent and, if you are to be absent from the plenary, to do so quickly and with respect to the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u136	Let us also talk at this time about the failure of the Youth Employment Strategy or the inadequacy of the measures. Many of these 100 measures that have been designed have been anecdotal, others have only served to generate more precariousness and fraud in bonuses, which have been perceived improperly, and have led to non-relevance to public employment services, not performing tasks such as work intermediation. Finally, we wanted to hold the Government accountable for the mismanagement of both the resources of the Youth Guarantee and the youth employment initiative. A Government with that amount of resources that has a problem, that is employment and youth unemployment, and that is incapable of managing and providing solutions, has to accept its responsibility and give us some solution here. With regard to unemployment - as has already been said in this House in the morning - we have a 38.2 % youth unemployment rate, and I say this by recognizing that macroeconomic data, when it comes to situations affecting people, have to be said responsibly and without doing any kind of astounding. Only Greece surpasses us in this unemployment rate, and that is a fact that I do not invent. Of this unemployed youth population, 47% is long-term, i.e. they have been out of the labour market for more than a year, and a third of these unemployed young workers have been out of the labour market for more than two years. I think these are really alarming figures. I know you're gonna tell me that me more, but it's just that we're not occupying those black armchairs right now, it's you. [[Pointing to the seats of the Government]] These are alarming figures because, first of all, it seems that we are experiencing times of economic growth; secondly - as the European Union says, not my parliamentary group - because they are being set up with a certain trap: what is happening is that more and more young people are abandoning their intention of seeking work, that is, we have a lower rate of activity; what is happening is that more and more young people are migrating and that the unemployment situation is being replaced by a situation of underemployment, that is, young people are working in whatever way they are being paid. I think that we should really analyse with a little more responsibility those 1500 or 1700 positions more or less that you are going to tell me that they have created, although I, as a citizen and as a person who is now in politics, of course, am glad. With regard to precarious young jobs, I am going to give you a data, although it could pass from data: 60% of the young work is temporary; moreover, to a question we asked you, we were answered that 76% of the contracts concluded in the field of Youth Guarantee were temporary, and we were also given this data: of the 12,611 contracts concluded under the Youth Guarantee measures, 9991 are temporary. - I think it's a sad fact. In addition, temporaryity is increasingly of shorter duration, of months, of days, and this has concrete consequences on the employment relationship of young people of loss of the possibility of becoming indefinite in the company, of loss of a possibility of sustainable integration, even of loss of the possibility of receiving unemployment benefits if that relationship ends, because they are unable to acquire a period of adequate deficiency. In addition, partiality: 23% of employment contracts are part-time, many of them temporary. The partiality, moreover, as it is living in our country - I tell you that from experience -, supposes that we have workers a la carte: I call you today, I call you tomorrow, I call you Saturday. That for young people is totally traumatic, because it prevents them from reconciling work with any kind of professional advancement. What is the reason for the precariousness in young people? To wage devaluation, which is given by partiality, by temporality, but also because they work in precarious sectors: hospitality, trade. One in three workers works at the hotel, but we also have no waiters, cooks or dependents, we have waiters' assistants, cooks' assistants or dependents' assistants, so their salary is always lower, even if they don't have anyone to help in the business. In addition, young people have suffered from the precarious effects of other issues in our labour market, such as the emergence of multi-service enterprises, the deterioration of collective bargaining and so on. As a result we have poorly paid work, work that leads young people to social exclusion and that nullifies their life expectancy. We also wanted from our group to analyse the subject of training. You know, because she is the minister, that training was a key issue in relation to the Youth Guarantee. What is happening in our labour market is that we have very well trained workers, but what is happening to them is the following thing that I am going to tell you now - I repeat: first, I do not invent it myself, the European Union says it, the unions say it, the UPI says it and, second, I have experienced it - that young graduates are working for free, that is, in a state of hyper-exploitation, through scholarships, in both curricular and extra-curricular practices or in non-work practices. There are eleven forms of non-work practices in this country whereby young people perform unpaid productive work, and with regard to those who are lucky enough to have a job, you know as well as I do that work for training and learning has been held at a high percentage with already qualified workers. What's that supposed to mean? That workers with qualifications have provided services through training contracts in hospitality, commerce and so on. That means, on the one hand, what I was saying to him: that there are trained workers working for free or insecure and, on the other hand, we have workers without training and who do not seek employment. The term nini, which was coined by the European Union, i.e. those workers who neither study nor seek employment, were the collective for which the Youth Guarantee was truly provided, was the specialty subject of this mechanism for the protection of young people. Europe has told you - and I do not think so either - that the guarantee has only reached 10% of the collective of these young people who are neither working nor studying; of the 100 % of potential recipients, we have only been able to get that 10% included in the effective measures of the Youth Guarantee, I no longer say that they are registered. I believe that the issue of dual training and training contracts has been a failure, and we can sum up by saying that if we have long-term unemployed young people, if we have precarious jobs in which young people also work away from their professional profile, if we have that lack of capacity to provide training and training, if we are unable to integrate young people into companies in dignity, we have failed to implement the Youth Guarantee and to manage young jobs. I would like to recall briefly - although everyone probably knows this - that the Youth Guarantee was a very specific issue, it was a commitment that the four-axis States had to make, to give a professional or formative exit within four months with an impact on those young people whom I am commenting on, in the nini, in order to achieve their sustainable integration into the labour market. I don't think any of this has been achieved. The Youth Guarantee is a structural key, as the European Union says, and I think it is time for the government to tell us here that it assumes that responsibility and that it will act accordingly. I would also like to provide a fact that you have also given us a question that we have asked the Government: of the 800,000 young people registered in the guarantee in March 2017, only a contract has been signed 12 611. - These are government data. In addition, we have systematically asked the Government what it intends to do to address this situation and to improve the quality and employability of young people and have always sent us a copy-stick in the answers - copy-stick, copy-stick - to the Royal Decree-Law 6/2016, which we know what content it has because we were all present the day that was discussed, but we believe that this is insufficient with the panorama that we are counting on. On the other hand, I wanted to talk briefly about young people and entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship has only served to make young people self-employed, passing on to them the Government's obligation to give a decent job to a person who does not want to be an entrepreneur. This has meant that once the flat rate has been completed, these young people have remained - many of them - without discharge in Social Security, and many of them have been self-employed fakes since the beginning. Moreover, self-employment, with the emergence of digital platforms, has led young people to an unsustainable situation. Another fact which is relevant to us and which highlights the small impact of the management of the Youth Guarantee and the Youth Employment Strategy on the issue of younger workers is that 41.68 % of young people recognise that the method of finding work is mouth-to-mouth: the family, the friend, and what does that lead us to? To recognize the limited role that public employment services and employment offices have played. The employment offices have not had sufficient resources, and I believe that in young jobs, where the personalized itinerary, advice, follow-up, guidance is essential - indeed, the European Court of Auditors has said that it is necessary to follow up to find out which young people leave and which do not - that is a significant fact. That is why we say to you, Minister, that we really are happy with the jobs you create because we are responsible citizens and politicians, but we want you to stop praising yourself. I do not want you to come here and bombard us with data that I already know, and I have just been listening to them in the control session and my group knows it, and I want you to tell us, after a responsible diagnosis, what you will do with the employment of young people to ensure their employability and their decent integration into businesses. They are being left alone in that triumphalist discourse. Both Brussels and the trade unions and the UPI are talking about young people being exploited, and now you have the opportunity to tell my group and all groups what you are going to do with youth employment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Frutos. I now call on the Minister for Employment and Social Security, on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, I thank you for your inquiry into an issue that is a priority for this Government, which is the employment and opportunities of the Spaniards and, in particular, that of our young people, because they are not only our future, but also our present and the fact that they have opportunities, as soon as possible for us, is the great challenge of the present and also of the future of our country. But the problem of young people's opportunities, how to improve their ability to enter the labour market, how to improve their training and skills is a task for everyone and, in particular, for Members of this House, the Government, the Autonomous Communities and the social dialogue. What we have tried from the very beginning, because we are convinced that it is the great instrument for correcting, is to add, to add from a constructive dialogue with all so that every day in our country there will be more and better jobs among young people. What I'm saying is not words, but deeds, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u139	Wait a minute, Minister. There's a problem with the microphone in the gallery. Please check it out because we can't hear you like this. [[Pause]] Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was telling you that the commitment to young people has been a reality with facts from the beginning. We started by improving young people's opportunities, and one of the first measures taken by the Government in the previous legislature was to put an end to the endless chaining of contracts for young people, with this indefinite chaining of temporary contracts in Spain. What we did was to give social protection to these contracts, to these non-working practices in companies that did not have social protection and which was the result of an agreement of the Government with the Workers'Commissions. In addition, we introduced a reform, the famous labour reform of 2012, which has facilitated, and much so, the insertion of young people in our country, even with a special contract for smaller companies, of less than 50 workers, that indefinite contract of support to entrepreneurs that was strongly encouraged thinking about the young people of our country. And we continue to add from the year 2013 with a first initiative, the Strategy of entrepreneurship and young employment that was a great challenge of the country; one hundred measures agreed in the social dialogue with the autonomous communities and with more than a thousand entities of civil society in favor of guidance, training and employment among young people that has given more than a million and a half opportunities to young people in Spain. We have joined from the beginning, thanks to President Rajoy's efforts to fight in Europe, so that the Youth Guarantee was a great reality for young people in our country, therefore, adding to all and adding to the opportunities of young people. We are currently renewing the 2018/2021 Youth Entrepreneurship and Employment Strategy with the social partners and the autonomous communities, so that we can also renew that commitment of all. What have been the results? Well, ladies and gentlemen, much remains to be done, but I think we must be proud of the hope and confidence that the data has begun to be more positive. Look, jobs are created among young people from the start of recovery as never before in our country. In previous crises we should have waited two years to create new jobs among young people. Today, in Spain, employment is created at a rate of five times the average of the overall employment rate. We are reaching levels of occupation among the very important young people. There are 2 672 000 employed under the age of 30, and we have recovered after the crisis 1 030 000 employed under the age of 25, which also remains an injection of confidence for, unfortunately, young people who are still unemployed. But this is a reality that we must value, and it is that the youth unemployment rate has fallen in our country since the recovery 21 points, Your Honor. At the beginning of the crisis, 30 points rose and 20 points have already fallen, almost 21 points. Another good news for young people's opportunities is that today school drop-out in our country has been reduced by 7 points. Dual vocational training is making strong progress by providing training and employment opportunities for many young people in Spain; it is already 600 000 thanks to the training and learning contract. The news we have known in recent days is that the unemployment rate of those young people who are ninis, who neither work nor study, is at pre-crisis levels. Therefore, there is hope among young people in our country, although there is still a lot of work to be done, because for me it is still unconformism to have a youth unemployment rate of 36% in our country. You talk to me about quality in employment. Your Honor, we've made progress there too. The reality tells us that the calm figures are that three out of four people working in Spain have an indefinite contract, 74%, and are 7 points more than at the start of the crisis; and workers with contracts of more temporary duration, those with contracts of less than one month in Spain, of days, hours, weeks, are 0.89% of the total of those who have contracts. Therefore, we are talking about an important figure; but put it in perspective. What do you want me to say? We have recovered 90% of all jobs destroyed by the crisis and 50% of the temporary and we are in record numbers of conversion of temporary to indefinite; 50% more talks than in 2011 when we arrived at the government. As a result, a low rate of temporaryity increases employment stability and you have said that employment in Spain is distributed. That's not true, Your Honor. If you look at the figures objectively, you will see that since the recovery all the jobs recovered have been full-time. Part-rate contracts have even fallen by 22 000. So let's see the figure with the coldness that they say because it's reality. And I'm telling you, there's a lot more to do, of course, and that's what we're still working on. I told him that we are renewing the Youth Entrepreneurship and Employment Strategy, but we are also taking action in the social dialogue. We have agreed together on a youth employment shock plan that is giving young people many opportunities and we have agreed on a new impetus with the autonomous communities in terms of the Youth Guarantee in Spain. Today, in our country, there are 960 000 young people registered in the Youth Guarantee, of whom 400 000 are employed. The rate of employability therefore exceeds 40 %. Can things go any better? We will remain committed to this, but there is no doubt that the effort, the commitment, the sum of everyone's will is working. As a Youth Guarantee in Spain, of all the money that Europe sends to our country to promote investment in young people, we are not going to lose a single euro. I will tell you something: the Public State Employment Service has been able to invest in young people through Youth Guarantee, in 2017, twice as much of the funds it had committed as the European Commission's target for this year. We are going to certify EUR 286,7 million - that is, almost EUR 300 million - and we would have had 137 as an obligation. The ministry is therefore fulfilling its obligation. If you want to help me with something, help me to ensure that the Autonomous Communities also comply with yours, because this is a shared task of both administrations, and there are some governed by the Socialist Party, Your Honor, which we have to be helping to certify, by the end of the year, so that not one euro of Youth Guarantee will be uncompromised. As I said to you, we have reached a social agreement at the Bureau of the plan to combat unemployment, that plan for employment among young people, which includes many measures: improving training and employment through the boost of the training and learning contract, which is also conceived there with a supplementary aid of EUR 430 for young people signing that contract. It will certainly add to the wage of the convention and it will be a good opportunity to improve their remuneration, and I do not understand why the Socialist Party does not support it when trade unions and most of the groups in this House do so. We will continue to promote employment stability with greater incentives for indefinite recruitment, and we will also improve initial professional experience through a new statute of non-employment practices that we will make between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Employment in order to promote, from the very beginning, employment stability among young people. Therefore, Your Honor, full commitment, hopeful results and hard work, because for us it is good news to move forward but, as much work remains to be done, we must continue to add; adding with autonomous communities, adding with the social partners and I hope that in addition with the Socialist Party, because I would like to bring as soon as possible this social agreement from the youth employment shock plan, agreed with trade unions and employers. I hope that this House will validate it as it deserves, because young people have to have our full attention, because they are our future but, as I said before, they are our present and we do not have a minute to lose. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u141	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs De Frutos Madrazo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u142	Minister, I'm going to start almost at the end. We are not going to support that complement. You say yes, that the unions support you, but I have to see it with these eyes. We will not support it because we believe in decent wages, that is, strong collective agreements, decent wages and work done and paid and paid and paid and paid work. For us that complement has many gaps: it is not priced, it is not wage; of course, our position at that point is not going to change. Much had to change the data, because the ones I brought in from April were that of 800,000 registrants only signed 12 611 contracts. Those 400,000 you're telling me, they're probably contracts in general. I want to tell you that one thing is the Youth Guarantee and another is the employment or unemployment of young people, not all young people employed or unemployed go to the Youth Guarantee measures. As far as the temporality is concerned, 76% of workers who have found employment in the field of the Youth Guarantee have been temporary, and outside the Youth Guarantee is 60%. As the data can go from one side to another, it seems to us, everything will depend on whether we talk about children under 25 or under 30, because young people in our country are all those under 30 years of age. You tell me that with us the temporality was very bad. He told me that the temporality when we ruled was terrible. Obviously, temporality is always bad, but now temporality has a different profile than it had before. You referred to this difference in profile, that is, before young and non-young workers chained temporary contracts, there was a legal limit - which you know very well - and a very settled jurisprudence that said that these workers were indefinite in the company, then temporality was a way to achieve job stability. But not now, put on as you put on not so, minister. It will be more than 0% that are missing..., but there are many; it is more, there are so many - although, obviously, it is a fashion that is starting and at the moment it is anecdotal - that many associations are saying that employers are using short-term temporary contracts to introduce a model contract that does not exist in our system, which is the zero-hour model. Our system regulates temporary contracts and does not accept this contractual modality. It has also referred to the training contract, and we ourselves say that it has to be reformed because of the issues we have already mentioned; because it has been used to hire qualified workers for precarious activities; because it has systematically failed to meet the training requirement, which has led to lower wages being paid by young workers because they only pay on the basis of actual work, when all time they are engaged in effective work and nothing in theoretical training, and because it has not been used to ensure that the worker is incorporated into the company. I have another fact that you have given us, which is that of the training contracts made only 34-35% have become indefinite. The training contract has not even been used for what was to be used, only 10% of contracts concluded with young people are for training. Another issue, we will advocate that the contract in practice be revalued, i.e. the young worker has to practice in the company, thereby charging for it in the field of an employment relationship. Under no circumstances will we assume that non-work practices will continue to be used to indignify and exploit young people, because I remind you that what you tell me about protection is not exactly a protection, it is a discharge in Social Security to give them some coverage in the face of accidents at work - it would just be missing -; it is like a liability insurance, they have no other coverage in the field of Social Security or they are company workers in any field. The other day we were talking about curricular practices, but they remain outside of that initiative - in Congress, in my opinion, we must go in that line - extracurricular practices - in which exploitation takes place more - and non-work practices. I repeat, we will advocate revitalizing the practice contract. He mentioned our autonomous communities. I have also spoken to them, and their complaint is that they have not been provided with sufficient funds to fulfil those functions essential for the management of youth employment, which are the mediation, orientation and profiling of offers so that jobs are appropriate to the profiles of young workers. It cannot be that a young worker has to choose any job because he has nothing else, and that is what is being lived in the autonomous communities. I am sure that among all of us, as you have said, we are going to resolve this issue and we are going to give employment offices the respect they deserve in managing young jobs. I think it's the first time I've seen her take some responsibility and I'm glad. That honors you as a minister. This is what we see, a precarious labour market and a young labour market with a lot of unemployment. In the motion we shall put forward, we shall propose measures which we consider appropriate for the consideration of all Members. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Frutos. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Employment and Social Security has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, I thank you for the tone of your words, what you want me to say, because I like to be a constructive person. But tell me what you prefer for Spain: a Spain that is the engine of youth unemployment in Europe or a Spain that today leads the creation of youth employment throughout the euro area, which is today a reality? What do you prefer, to increase youth unemployment by 30 points - as happened with the management of the socialist government - or to now fall by 21 points, as has happened since the recovery in recent years? What do you prefer, that indefinite recruitment falls by 17% as it happened until 2011 or that it now rises at a rate of 21% among young people that stability in employment, as we all want? Believe me that the situation has changed and for good, and I have told you from the very beginning that the compromise has to remain very important on the part of everyone, because we still have a huge task ahead of us, because the youth unemployment rate in Spain, although it has improved considerably, remains at least unacceptable to this government. But we must recognize the efforts of all Spanish society in this progress, because the decisions of companies, social partners, public administrations and of course of the workers themselves contribute to the great progress towards employment that is taking place in our country. That fills us with confidence and also with hope and thanks, and it is good that we are honest in speaking to the citizens. The problem, even if it is great, if we approach it together, we will solve it with better results. I told you before and I repeat again, the data from the Youth Guarantee I have given you may surprise you, but they are real, of 960 000 registered have already found a job more than 400 000, which means a level of employability of 40%. It's good news for everyone, but we have to keep improving. I told him that we are certifying the Youth Guarantee well and that SEPE has fulfilled its obligations more than ever. I would also like to see a high level of compliance by all the administrations and bodies entrusted with this task of investing in young people through the funds of the Youth Guarantee. And I also told him that it seems paradoxical to me that when this government sits with trade unions and employers to continue putting on the table new initiatives in favour of employability, training, quality and job stability among young people, the Socialist Party questions that pact, Your Honor. I am very sorry that you do not like that a young person in Spain who today signed a training and learning contract, in addition to the contract wage, would have a supplementary aid of 430 euros per month, which would mean that a young Spanish person who is registered in the Youth Guarantee could be charged from the first month in which he works and is trained more than 1000 euros. The Socialist Party will have to explain why this initiative of Citizens and the People's Party, led to social dialogue and blessed by trade unions and employers, does not suit it. I do not understand it, but the young Spaniards deserve to have a job, to be trained and to have an adequate remuneration, Your Honor, and that is being denied today by the Socialist Party in this House. [[Applauds]] To preach one must set an example, and I encourage him to speak with his autonomous communities. Mine, Andalusia, is the one that has the highest unemployment rate among the four autonomous communities in Europe that have the highest unemployment rate, which is a concern to me every day. But look at what he does with training policies for young people: not even 8% of what he has done is spent. I'll read you something. It is paradoxical that budgetary programmes such as those aimed at the training and promotion of employment, entrepreneurship or the reorganisation and modernization of the Andalusian productive fabric present a further year, and until the third quarter of the year, very low levels of implementation in their budget allocations. In view of the serious problem of unemployment in the autonomous community, the invariability in the situation with regard to the previous financial year which has had the degree of budgetary implementation of these programmes is appreciable. I do not say this, Your Honor, as the Andalusian ESC says, prepared this report under the direction of the Community Labour Council, on page 72. So if you want to help young people help those who need it most, in this case some governed also by the Socialist Party. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON REPUBLICAL DISCUSSION, ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN CATALUña. [[File number 172/000095]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u146	We turn to the next item on the agenda, an urgent debate by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, on the political situation in Catalonia. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u147	Thank you. [[Read a document]] Mr Rajoy, we were beaten on 1 October, imprisoned the leaders of the entities that organized the most numerous and peaceful manifestations of contemporary European history, imprisoned and confined, applied article 155, kidnapped our autonomy and even took advantage of it to plunder cultural property in Lleida, with night and lightness, despite the existence of an unsolved judicial remedy. Mr Rajoy, you will agree with me that beatings, jail and repression is not the best way to treat people, it is not the best way to treat a people that manifests itself or defends their ideas democratically, peacefully, and it is not the best way to solve anything based on coups and repression, however much you always justify it in the name of the law. Imposing the law at a fucking stroke seems to be your favorite recipe for citizens, as the old saying goes: the bloody letter comes in. In the place where I am I am surrounded by people who have committed all kinds of crimes, but - you know? - there is not a single intern who has anything to do with the corruption industry of some political parties. And I ask, allow me: where are the hundreds of accused or convicted of corruption of your party? What prison are you in? I don't see any around here. Mr Rajoy, on 21 December we shall be voting again. I urge you to accept the result, to respect it, to implement it by mutual agreement, without cocks, without cocks this time. Whatever the outcome, I demand that you abandon the path of judicialization of a political conflict, that you abandon the path of repression and start the path of politics. In any case, you know that the differences, however large they may be, must be resolved by dialogue and must never be resolved with violence. By the way, I ask you to take action against violent acts carried out with impunity by the extreme right these days in the streets of Catalonia. Ultimately, it is essential to resolve differences through dialogue, with respect and mutual recognition. At least that's what the Democrats have always believed. I understand you too. There lies a value of universal coexistence that does not seem to me to be less, because in the end it is about living and living together, of economic and social progress, and when someone resorts to violence to impose their thesis it strikes the bases of coexistence and prosperity. I wish you a Merry Christmas in the company of yours. Careful, Oriol Junqueras. Extremera Prison, December 2017. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud of my vice-president, of my party president, of my colleague and friend, Oriol Junqueras, and proud of a citizen who, despite the prohibitions, exercised his inalienable right to decide; proud of a citizen who knew how to organize himself to vote; proud of a citizen who, despite the violence, always knew how to respond peacefully; proud of a Government and a Parliament that fulfilled the democratic mandate of 27 September 2015; proud of a Government which, in view of the information that pointed to a hypothetical violent response after the declaration of independence in the Parliament of Catalonia, decided not to expose the citizen to a possible repression; and proud of a society that has been able to generate, create two entities, two associations such as the National Assembly and the Cultural Assembly of a great democratic presence and with a deep determination of its leaders, today imprisoned. I am talking to you about a peaceful process - yes, of course - because the supporters of the Catalan Republic are not willing to consent to or legitimize a single peak of violence to get our ideas - I repeat, not a single peak of violence - and instead their violence, police, political, judicial and media violence I believe it clearly defines their course and perhaps also their convictions. For this reason let me invoke - and forgive the petulance with which I will now speak - the famous allegation J'Accusse...!, by Emile Zola, against the war council and against the press in the case of the French officer Dreyfus, who as you know was condemned for high treason without evidence. The mere fact of being Jewish made him guilty. Well, I certainly do. I accuse the Spanish oligarchy of a long tradition of distorting the facts. The most tragic example was the war councils by which the rebels shot the Democrats for false crimes of treason and rebellion. I accuse the Government of Spain, yes, of creating a framework of legal appearance to suppress the democratic mandate of 27 September 2015, and I accuse the Spanish Government of presenting debates and parliamentary acts, of presenting peaceful demonstrations, of presenting democratic votes as if they were crimes of rebellion, which in the Spanish Penal Code require, require the use of violence, violence that has never been given and which the Republicans have always repudiated. Then I accuse the Government of Spain, the political parties of the 155 club, the prosecutor's office, the National High Court, even the Supreme Court, yes; I accuse them all of organizing a political persecution, of organizing the political persecution of the majority option in Catalonia, a real general cause. And in the same way I accuse certain media of creating an oppressive atmosphere against Catalans, the same one Zola denounced in the anti-Semitic press; media that encourage the A for them! Evidently these are us, the Catalans, or at least the sovereign Catalans. In short, without external enemies Spain uses Catalonia once again as a great catalyst for Spanish patriotic sentiments. You repeat and your media also that the independence process has failed. I don't think so, I'm actually convinced you're wrong. In any case history will tell and the Catalans - whether we are independent or not - will decide. But I also want to say that I have the impression that we had never come this far, we have proclaimed the republic, and we have only proclaimed it, of course; we have never been so many, never, and I tell you that as a young man I believed that the independenceists were a few thousand and only a few thousand, and the cause of Catalonia had never been as internationalized as it is now. In the investiture debate we already told them that there were two options: the democratic option, trying to resolve the Catalan conflict democratically or trying to resolve it, intercomilado - the non-solution - through authoritarianism. The Quebecers lost the referendum by 10ths and Minister Trudeau pushed for a change to the Canadian Constitution, and in Alberta, over 3,000 kilometres from Quebec, where French has never been spoken, now French is official. It's as if the Basque is official in Seville. Quebec is still in Canada. In 1960, Belgium was a uninational and monolingual State. Today it is a plurinational and multilingual State, see if it is plurilingual that even to make it clear in the Councils of Ministers simultaneous translation is used. Consequence of all this, even though Flanders has independenceist political forces - it is true - continues today in the Kingdom of Belgium. And the same could apply to Scotland. When the Scots of the Scottish National Party with 44% of votes forced a referendum in Scotland, London stood up, London put lubricant in the dialogue. Consequence of all this: Scotland today still belongs to Britain. Then do you know why I'm convinced that sooner or later we'll win? Because you will be unable to correct, unable to correct. I'm looking forward to seeing if I can find a solution. [[Applauds]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u149	Thank you, President. Mr. Tardà, I see you're coming with the yellow tie today. They've got us all used to wearing yellow in the last few days. You have taken our streets, the Parliament, the Catalan institutions, you want to take our villages, our cities. You want to appropriate the entire Catalan people. They always speak on behalf of the entire Catalan people when what you have really done has been to break it in two. You want to appropriate the heart and reason of all Catalans. [[Applauds]] They do not have enough with everything that has kidnapped us all Catalans who also want to appropriate - and kidnap - the yellow color, one of the favorite colors of youth and children. The other day I was wearing this pistachio yellow dress and they said to me, "Minister, you're wearing the color of independence, and I said, "No, man, no, if the independenceists are going to steal the color palette from us." [[Applauds]] No, today I have dressed in a pistachio yellow dress - I am not superstitious at all - because today I want to claim freedom from this rostrum, that freedom that you have stolen from each and every Catalan. Therefore today I reclaim my freedom from the yellow color. I've been distracted looking for what the yellow color means - you know there are superstitious people and that the colors mean things - and the yellow color has a curious meaning and symbolism, as it is quite contradictory. On the one hand, he is associated with youth, happiness, joy, optimism, intelligence and knowledge, but on the other, it means jealousy, envy, betrayal, selfishness and narcissism. Yellow is one of the primary colors, since it is not the result of any mixture, it is a luminous color, which is why it is associated with the sun; hence it is related to knowledge and intelligence. Apollo was the god of the sun, the god of knowledge, but the yellow color, as I said, is also associated with betrayal, envy and narcissism, and for this reason the flowers that receive this name of narcissus is by the character of Greek mythology, Narcissus, and therefore the flowers are yellow. But I'm also going to tell you that yellow is a flexible color, not to say unsteady, because if it is combined with a drop of any other color it is very likely to result in another totally different color. So I understand more than ever that you have chosen the yellow color, because you have betrayed your own people, you have betrayed all the Catalan people and the rest of Spain. [[Applauds]] The greatest betrayal that has been made to the Catalans is to charge themselves with democracy, the Constitution, the statut d'autonomie, our rights and our freedoms, to break living together, to impoverish Catalonia economically and to compromise all the projects for the future of Catalonia. Today I have dressed with the most like yellow to claim my freedom and that of all Catalans, to claim youth, happiness, joy, optimism and intelligence represented by yellow, but above all to claim that Catalans are this little drop of any other color that, combined with yellow, will transform the history of Catalonia on 21 December, so that we all have truly that Catalonia that we have always known, to make our dreams come true, the dream of every Catalan. [[Applauds]] We dream and work for a Catalonia of all. You come here with a letter from Mr Junqueras, but today we, all the Spaniards, have awakened with the true letter in all the media: the process diet, where you really explain the true letter of Mr Junqueras, a letter that you put on the diet and where you sold that the process guaranteed the prosperity of Catalonia, but that you knew that it was going to cause an economic disaster - it is written in this diet - while we work and dream for Catalonia to truly be the economic, social and cultural engine of Spain. In this diet it is reflected that they wanted to break with the established power and they were concerned to legalize the referendum, but we, in face of this, work every day and dream to re-enjoy the Catalonia of all, of the Catalonia host land, of the Catalonia open, plural, welcoming, land of opportunity. While you in the diet course considered it key for the process to create a great citizen platform, using for this purpose Ómniun Cultural and the ANC, we work to see our families and friends again at the same table, talking quietly about politics. While you - and listen well to what I am going to say to you, put it in the process diet, this is the true letter of independence and Republican Squerra - recognize in private that your process was unethical and concerned to make a mockery of the referendum if it did not vote more people than on November 9, we dream of re-feeling proud of our land and admired in the rest of Spain for our push, our entrepreneurship, leadership, creativity and above all for our businesses to bet on our land again creating new opportunities. While you did not want to create new places for teachers in the next six years to hire personnel who are sure to be in tune with your process, we work and dream about the non-use of independence policy in public institutions, schools, fire parks, hospitals, any public office of the Generalitat, in football and in so many public places. As you dreamt of advancing in the social and national rupture as a tool to build the republic, we worked to turn all of Catalonia into a castle where we all fit, where no one is ever excluded, where we don't look where we come from, but where we go. You were clear that if people were to go out on the street - listen well - and be able to move forward in the process it was necessary to generate more micro-corruptions. This puts it in the diet; this is Mr. Junqueras's true letter: that in order for people to go out on the street and be able to move forward in the process, it was necessary to generate micro-ruptures. And you're telling me about the smile revolution? Do you tell us about the smile revolution when in your own diet the number two of Republican Left says you had to generate more micro-rubs? For we work for reconciliation, for coexistence, for harmony and for equality, and above all for democracy. He talks to me about dialogue; of course, dialogue in this House and dialogue within democracy and within the framework of coexistence that we have all given ourselves. And on December 21st all Catalans have this great opportunity to end the nightmare that you have caused us in recent years, and to change once and for all the history of Catalonia together with Spain and with Europe. These elections called by President Rajoy have opened up a horizon of hope for us all. I do not doubt that we will be able to take this opportunity to teach them a lesson in democracy. Mr Tardà, at this point do not give us any more lessons of democracy, because you know perfectly well - and you yourself acknowledged it - that on 6 and 7 September you overthrew all the rights of Catalans, adopting illegal laws and silence the opposition, calling an illegal referendum knowing that it was. They never complied with or respected judicial decisions, and what is worse, they always point us with their accusing finger to all those Catalans that we do not communicate with their ideas. They talk about democracy when they want to crush the rights of half the Catalans we don't think like you. That's his democracy, the process's diet; that's Mr. Junqueras' royal letter, not the one he's read today, but what they've actually written in recent years to break Catalonia, impoverish Catalonia and end up separating Catalonia from Spain. You always go against those who don't give you reason. They do not have enough to attack Spain, which is now attacking Europe. The Europeans really have realized who you are, who are the greatest danger in Europe, because you are the worst face of populism, of the anti-system and above all of anti-Europeanism. The most exclusive and sectarian nationalism we have ever known in our democracy. This is what independence is. [[Applauds]] Since they do not have enough to use the Catalan Parliament and all the institutions today come to use this rostrum - it can always use it of course, because we believe in democracy and this is democracy - to campaign, and it comes to us with Mr Junqueras' letter. Look, Mr Tardà, you and I are Members, both for the province of Barcelona; both you and I represent all the Spanish citizens. You and your people have long renounced representing all citizens and have also decided not to represent all Catalans, because you prefer to speak only on behalf of the Catalan independenceists, and you do so against all others. But today you have further reduced your spectrum of representation, today you have decided to give a voice in this House to a political prisoner, not a political prisoner. In Spain there are no political prisoners; what is not in Spain is impunity. [[Protests.-Applause.]] [[Protests from Mr. Salvador i Duch while patting himself on the cheek]] What is not in Spain is impunity, and what is in Spain is law, the law that makes us equal, the law that guarantees us precisely our coexistence. You are in your right, but by doing so you have done your parliamentary group a weak favour, the group of citizens you should represent, and you have done yourself a weak favour, because you are a militant in the same party as Oriol Junqueras, you defend the same positions as Mr Junqueras and you have the same ideas as Mr Junqueras; the difference between you and Mr Junqueras is that you act within the law while Mr Junqueras violates it. Your act of your own today is the best proof that in Spain no one is persecuted for his ideas - that is, in the same way as Mr Junqueras is proof that in Spain we are all subject to responsibility for our actions or, which is the same, that we are all equal before the law. [[Applauds]] You are here because you want and because you have wanted some citizens of Barcelona. Mr Junqueras is where he is for his actions and for the decision of a democratic judge who enforces a democratic law. You, who are a legislator, should not ignore these things. That you use this rostrum to campaign in Congress means you see it very badly. They see it very badly to use this rostrum to put a headline in a newspaper. I end by telling him that it is enough to want to confront the Catalans all day long, dividing them into good and bad. It is enough - I say this to you as a Catalan - to do free harm to all Catalan society. We have had enough historic days with you and have experienced too many moments of tension and fear. We began to live in peace and tranquillity, as we had always done. The time has now come to regain coexistence, to respect democracy, to respect the law and to build Catalonia together with Spain and Europe. Thanks to President Rajoy and this government we have regained democratic normalcy in Catalonia after five years of tension and attacks on democracy. This Government has done what you should have done: call elections to return the Parliament and the Generalitat to which it truly belongs, which is to all the Catalan people. You dream of building a grey and dark Catalonia in which we all have to think the same, in which we all have to speak the same language, in which there is no plurality of ideas and where freedom is only a privilege for a few, for you, those who skip the laws. Therefore, Mr Tardà, I tell you from here that we, the Government of Spain, have overcome the two most important crises in our history: the economic crisis and its attempt to impose a unilateral declaration of independence in Catalonia and, therefore, in Spain. It is true that the economic crisis has overcome it and I am very convinced that the crisis that you, the independenceists, have caused, we will overcome it by transforming the history of Catalonia on 21 December by putting our drop of another color, together with its yellow, so that, together with the 7.5 million Catalans, we continue to build Catalonia within this great country and this great democracy that is Spain. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!- Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u150	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u151	Well, on December 21st, we'll see what the Catalan citizen says. [[Applauds]] If we do not win the elections, with pain - I recognize it, with pain - we will congratulate those who win. And to chop stone. [[Applauds]] And we will continue to bite stone because if we are now 40%, 45% or 48%, I don't care, and I belong to a generation in which we were 8% or 10% and all fought among all, as you will understand, I am not only satisfied but proud and very hopeful, since our generation has managed to reach, at least, the foot of the mountain. Who would have told our generation we'd get to the mountain skirt? We're already on it. We have declared independence. Symbolic? Right. Politics? Of course. Is there much left? An ocean. You have to climb the mountain, you have to reach the summit. Is it gonna take a long time? I have friends in jail. But we will never derail, we will do everything peacefully, we will do everything democratically, and if it costs more time, it will cost more time. But you should also worry because everything is dialectical and, in the same way as before we were 12% and now we are 48%, does the story end today at twelve o'clock in the evening? Have you not been concerned to think that if we are now 48 %, if we do not wake up, we will be 60 % in a while? Are you only concerned that we are discouraged by the independenceists? What about my fellow Catalans who aren't? Mrs Montserrat, you are a normal Catalan, like me, and you will be the only one in whose environment there is no independenceist, because in my family environment and among my friends of the soul there are those who are not independenceists. Do you think my political project marginalizes my family or my friends who aren't? Similarly, I think you should think the same, you should think that not only do I have to be concerned about the Catalan independenceists in order for them to be discouraged or not to be discouraged, but that this 48% is not going up. I may be wrong, of course, but I have the impression, because I am a good connoisseur of the history of Spain... Yes, I say good connoisseur, I have not said wise. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Yes?]] [[Laughter and applause]] I am a good connoisseur of the history of Spain and I have the impression that either they put on the work monkey or this 48% will grow. In fact, I am convinced that the inability of the Spanish State to recognize itself as a plurinational, pluricultural and plurilingual State has led to that majority in Catalonia today, perhaps a majority minority, being the same, in historical terms it is the same. So, as you say in the sport slang, there's a match, Mrs. Montserrat; there's a match. Now, I'm always talking about Catalan citizenship, I'm not talking about Catalonia, because to me as Catalan you are like me, Mr. Girauta like me. Look, my Republican convictions do not allow you to accept what you attribute to me said with all respect. [[The lady]] And two, are there families that have fought the trial? Yeah, but they were fighting before. [[Rumors]] Yes, they had already fought for the four savings of the parents. Please, let's stop stereotyping. The families in which there was real communication and education have been able to dialogue; where dialogue has not triumphed is where culture had failed, where family dialogue had failed. Do not come to me - said with all due respect - with stereotypes of this type. [[Mr. Martinez-Maillo Toribio: What a barbarity!]] What barbarity? Well, it's no barbarity. Moreover, a society that drives a process that forces citizens to think whether or not independence interests them is a thinking society. [[Rumors]] Well, you can keep fighting; we'll try to build, build the Republic. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group, several of them on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u152	To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u153	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tardà, you come to explain your story and I will explain mine. Last Saturday, walking through my village, some members of his party yelled at me that I am a fascist, go from Sant Sadurní, you are not welcome in Sant Sadurní. This is the truth, you don't believe me, but this is the truth! And there were a lot of people in the market. But at the same time - and now I'm going to explain the difference between you and us - there were other citizens who grabbed me hard by the arm and said: thank you, thank you, thank you, we're with you, let's beat them in the ballot box. Do you know what the difference is between you and us? Very easy: that we do not want to win anyone but neither do we want anyone to lose, because we want reconciliation, Mr Tardà. Look me in the eye and you will see that in my eyes there is no hatred and no grudge. [[Applauds]] I saw in the eyes of those who shouted at me hatred and bitterness. In my eyes, in our eyes, there is no hatred or bitterness. Our eyes express the will to work together in the reconstruction of a society broken from democracy, from the law, so that our children and grandchildren will find each other again. As Catalan I am tired of suffering in my own flesh the lack of freedom, but we look without hatred and without resentment. You have provoked the division of society, you have provoked hatred and resentment. I can look you in the eye because I have no hatred, because I want to continue building this great Catalonia within Spain and Europe, and I want to build it with the 7.5 million Catalans and with the rest of the Spaniards. We must truly reconcile from generosity, we must truly reconcile without aggression and without humiliation, and we must continue to live without resentment. We want to regain pluralism, diversity, tolerance, because only by creating bonds between people can we recompose the fracture of our coexistence that independence has created. We have the opportunity to start a stage of security, certainty and tranquillity in Catalonia, a stage in which Catalonia will once again be at the head of economic recovery in Spain. We have experienced the worst economic crisis in history and, after many efforts on the part of all, the Catalans and the rest of the Spanish, we have managed to steer the situation. Spain, with Catalonia at the forefront, had already had four years of economic growth, the last three above 3%, rather than the European average. The most important task for 21 December is to restore harmony, restore coexistence, tolerance, freedom and work for reconciliation. Spain is the solution. Enough of talking bad about Spain! Let's talk about Spain! Let's be proud of what we have! We are the country that is among the first fifteen economic powers in the world. We are the fourth economy in the euro area that creates jobs and guarantees the well-being of its citizens. We are the country with the best health system in Europe and we are a great democracy built among all, which never excludes anyone, not as its independence project, who want to create a new country just thinking how you think and excluding those we think differently. [[Applauds]] Don't tell me you want to build Catalonia from dialogue and from the smile revolution. His independence project represents the past. Our project represents the future and Europe, economic and social progress. Its independence project represents instability and legal uncertainty. We have seen it, we have seen how the companies have gone, we have seen how society has broken down and we have seen how they have committed Catalonia's future projects. And our project represents certainty, stability and legal certainty. Its independence project represents the flight of companies and our project, investment and economic stability in Catalonia. Your independence project represents the deception - the deception, in the dietarium is, is there written by you - the deception, and we represent the project of truth, certainty and the solution of the real problems of Catalans. Its independence project represents less Catalonia, less Spain and less Europe, and we, with our project, want more Catalonia, more Spain and more Europe. Therefore, Mr Tardà, our future is not yet written, we can write it together from law, loyalty, generosity and democracy. We know it's not going to be easy, but we need time and height to watch. We are in this generosity, we are with democracy and with the law. I want us to look with respect and tolerance, to think differently, of course, but to build a project of coexistence. That's the Catalonia I love, that I feel, that I think about and that I work every day of my life. If all Catalans think more about what unites us than what separates us, we will really close our wounds between ourselves and the rest of Spain. If all Catalans feel part of a common project, we can live together with respect and freedom. If all Catalans love our land, we will be able to build our future together in a society of all and for all and continue to build Catalonia within Spain and Europe. Spain, this great democracy and this great nation that never excludes anyone and in which we all belong. Therefore, this is the way and this is what we defend for Catalonia and Spain. I sincerely hope that we will find ourselves, within the law, in dialogue, respect and freedom, especially in freedom. If I went into politics, do you know what it was for? It was to defend my freedom, the freedom of those we thought different, not to silence in the face of the abuses of monocolor thought and independence. Therefore, Mr Tardà, let us meet all Catalans together with the rest of Spain to continue to build this great nation and this great democracy together with Europe. Thank you so much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Bravo!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u155	We continue with the point corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 18/2017 of 24 November, amending the Commercial Code, the consolidated text of the Capital Companies Act approved by Royal Decree-Law 1/2010 of 2 July, and Law 22/2015 of 20 July, Audit of Accounts, on non-financial information and diversity. To present the royal decree-law on behalf of the government, the Minister of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I compare today in this House, in the last plenary session of this year, to propose the validation of two royal decree-laws. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u157	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u158	The aim of both of them is to transpose into our legislation Community directives whose time limit has expired. The first of the decrees adopted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November is that concerning non-financial information that large companies and business groups must provide to facilitate understanding of their organization and business. This is a literal transposition of the European Directive on the dissemination of non-financial information and diversity information, the aim of which is to increase transparency and thereby the confidence of investors, consumers and society in general towards businesses. The organizations that will be affected by this regulation will be the large companies and groups with the consideration of public interest entities, whose average number of workers during the year is more than 500. In addition, they must have met at least two of the following conditions for at least the previous two years: to have an asset over EUR 20 million, to have the net amount of the annual turnover over EUR 40 million and to have the average number of workers over EUR 250. This text amends three rules. The first of these is the Code of Commerce of 1855. The aim is to require the inclusion of a non-financial statement of information in the management report accompanying the consolidated annual accounts of large companies. From now on, information will have to be provided on social and environmental issues, personnel, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and bribery. This could include, for example, what measures have been taken to promote gender equality, what effects on the environment and health business has, what use is made of energy, what human rights impacts are being made, what measures and procedures have been taken to prevent abuse, or what resources of internal control exist to prevent corruption and bribery. The second rule that is affected by this royal decree-law is the Capital Societies Act. In this way, the management reports of the individual annual accounts should also include the non-financial statement mentioned above. In addition, the annual corporate governance report of listed public limited companies will have to contain a description of the diversity policy applied in the election of members of the board of directors. In particular, what measures have been taken to ensure such diversity in matters such as age, gender, disability, training and professional experience should be made public. The third amended rule is the Audit of Accounts Act 2015. The objective is for auditors and audit firms to be required to ensure that non-financial information is included in the above-mentioned reports. With regard to the decision to process these measures through a royal decree-law, the Government considers the urgency and extraordinary necessity to be more than justified, given that the deadline for transposing the directive expired in December 2016. It is clear that having a government in office for almost a year has not facilitated the task of adapting our legislation to Community legislation. In view of this delay, the European Commission has already opened an infringement procedure for Spain. I do not need to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that if we were finally to file a complaint against our country before the Court of Justice of the European Union, we could be imposed a lump sum fine which would start to count from the deadline for transposition. This delay in transposition and the existence of infringement proceedings against Spain are precisely two of the cases that our Constitutional Court recognizes as justifications for using a real decree-law. On the other hand, it is necessary to clarify as soon as possible what these new information requirements consist of because companies will have to comply with them in their reports on the year that is about to end, 2017. In any event, the Government has no objection to this royal decree-law being treated as a bill, so that parliamentary groups can present their proposals for improvement. I hope that most groups will support validation with their vote, since the objective of this royal decree-law, as I mentioned at the beginning of my exhibition, is to increase transparency in our large companies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canades spoke at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister. We are late in validating the transposition of this European directive by the government. In addition, an opportunity has been missed for us - beyond the Government's transposition of the text of the directive into practically literal terms - to have a good debate with society on the consequences and possibilities of the directive. I reminded the Minister that, beyond the explanation you have given of the literality of the text contained in this royal decree, what we are taking is an important step in the development of a public policy of recognition and promotion of corporate social responsibility. It is said by someone who, from this rostrum quite a few years ago, proposed in this House, together with Mr Jáuregui, of the Socialist Group, and Mr Azpiroz, of his group, a report from this Congress of Deputies where, among other things - and I am speaking to you about ten or twelve years ago - we were already betting on the need to move towards non-financial reports incorporated in the management reports of companies, very convinced - we understood then and today too - that the movement in favour of CSR required transparency. Transparency would help governments to make decisions, to legislate to respond to new needs; transparency would allow institutional investors to make good decisions in their investment policies and transparency would allow citizens to take positions vis-à-vis business policies. We were convinced that companies, in general, and multinational companies in particular, which are the most affected by such regulations, had positive effects on society but also had negative effects. These negative effects affected the ability of companies to compete, affected human rights, affected the environment and made it more difficult for certain public policies to develop, and we therefore bet through these reports on transparency to prevent and combat these negative effects of the behaviour of large companies. This is a debate, therefore, in which it would have been very interesting if the Government had listened to many of the civil society actors in the Spanish State who are involved in this discussion. From some organizations of the social initiative, such as the Ceres Foundation, the Observatory of Corporate Social Responsibility, business schools - both Esade and IES, Instituto de Empresa, have excellent professionals who in these issues have criteria, have opinions that they could have contributed -, even professionals in the field of commercial law who have worked on these issues. Our feeling is that not only has this transposition of the directive come late, but the government has opted for the work of minima. That is to say, I do so because I have to do so, but I do not express a conviction about the opportunities, in terms of improving the competitive position of companies, which have policies linked to corporate social responsibility. Moreover, that poor transposition that has been made leaves too many questions open. It is a very loose text, I do not know whether the Government is planning a further regulatory development of the same. In any case, the processing as a bill of this initiative should allow us to do what has not been possible during this year during the parliamentary process, to be able to listen to the parliamentary presentation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u161	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u162	... what the economic and social fabric has to say in this area, that we are inspired by some of the best practices in this area that exist in the rest of Europe. In fact, this directive on non-financial information for companies is closely linked to initiatives which are very much consolidated in the UK legislation or Danish legislation and even in French legislation. We could be more ambitious in our approaches, we could go beyond what the directive covers. We should also include in this look at the responsible behaviour of companies everything that is linked to the field of taxation. The minister will agree with me that today a socially responsible company is a company that assumes its fiscal commitments in that community where it carries out its main activities and where its correctness is linked to the success of that community. There's a very important tour there. For many Spanish companies in international markets, good legislation in this area could also help them to have greater capacity to attract institutional investors. One of the most interesting dynamics that exists in relation to the CSR movement is the conviction of more and more institutional investors to make their investment decisions based on social, ethical or environmental criteria. Perhaps the most relevant paradigm is the Norwegian Sovereign Fund, Norway's great savings from its oil wealth, whose investment decisions are based precisely on what this royal decree seeks to facilitate, which is a greater social responsibility of companies. This trend, Minister, will be consolidated over time. I am convinced that the movement in favour of socially more responsible companies is part of a very fundamental dynamic that the new generations of workers, entrepreneurs and consumers are going to promote. We have an opportunity, therefore, formally request also the processing as a bill of this royal decree and we will vote in favour of its validation, as can be no other way. We are very convinced that the opportunity must be taken to ensure that, modestly, the report on non-financial information helps to have more responsible companies, more committed to the community and more in line with the major objectives set by the international community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u164	Thank you, President. Good morning. Egun on, ladies and gentlemen. A few years ago corporate transparency - especially on environmental, social and good governance issues - was perceived as a matter of good practice and voluntary compliance. Today, however, it is already an essential issue of business activity and is that we now see the company not only as an economic agent, but also as an agent with a social, cultural and also environmental role. Transparency, therefore, is an instrumental value because it reduces market uncertainties about the preferences of polysmakers, generating more efficient financial markets, increases investment while opacity discourages it and, in addition, for organizations it generates trust between stakeholders or interest groups. In short, it contributes to economic growth and regulatory quality. Corporate social responsibility, together with corporate transparency, has gone from being seen as an expense to being perceived as an investment that will bring benefits to companies as well. In this context, we believe that Directive 2014/95 has been a major step forward, as it sets out the regulatory framework at international level on extra-financial incorporation and also on diversity. It is as a consequence of this directive that we come here today to validate Royal Decree 18/2017, whose purpose is to transpose it into our domestic law. This transposition amends article 49 of the Commercial Code, also some articles in the consolidated text of the Capital Companies Act and the Audit of Accounts Act, to increase non-financial information from the management report accompanying individual and consolidated annual accounts, as I have said, to social and environmental aspects, information on personnel, human rights and the fight against corruption, and to expand the content required in the annual corporate governance report published by listed public limited companies. Again, I would like to remind the Government that the explanatory statement justifies the use of the Royal Decree-Law solely in the fact that there is a backlog in transposition, but it cannot be said that the extraordinary urgency required by the constitutional precept arises because it is in a more than predictable situation, because the date of adoption of the directive and also the deadline for transposition were known. I would like to point out that, although the directive is aimed at companies of 500 workers, it should have gone further, in such a way that the number of companies obliged to report gradually increases, a circumstance which is, for example, voluntarily reflected in Danish legislation or also in the Swedish rule, which follows the same line. The directive, as I said, requires reporting on environmental aspects - greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption -, social aspects - equality, health - and aspects of corporate governance. But it must also be said that it is a directive of minimums and while in this direction the decree-law is moving, perhaps it should have been a little more ambitious and incorporate criteria or aspects that extend the minimums laid down in it, as other European regulations have done. I also believe that the focus should be on educating business culture and responsible behaviour, so that it is the companies that voluntarily include this information, understanding it as an added value for them. A company that acts responsibly brings added value not only to its organization but also to its product or service. Despite the small numerals made and appreciating positively the transposition of this directive, our group will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u166	Good morning, President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. We will ask for the processing of this royal decree as a bill and we will abstain in the vote. Due to their way of working, something common in the People's Party government, we are accustomed to the need to validate or repeal real decrees to carry out transpositions of European directives, always at the limit of transposition or always out of time, as is the case with this real decree, almost at the end of the party and in time of discount, and in this case with the threat of Europe to impose sanctions on the Spanish State. Always late and, let me tell you, Minister, wrong. Spain has a record of non-compliance with European directives, and in addition - and we have often criticised this - they do not apply them properly, they do not reach their peaks and they often avoid their own application. In addition, they abuse the remedy of the decree-law. You know that of the breaches of the law, of who fails... Anyway, first you have to look in the mirror and see if you really have the ability to point out to others. It's no surprise. I will also tell you that we have little confidence in a People's Party Government, a party that has been characterized by having the greatest number of people subject to judicial proceedings for corruption, has been characterized by an economic model based on nepotism focused on supporting - directly, indirectly and in all possible ways - large IBEX companies, the companies that pollute the most, companies that have more subsidiaries in tax havens, that elude, etc. That is, therefore, the ideology that permeates the Government of the People's Party, the author of the decree, and this decree does not create, according to Esquerra Republicana, sufficient transparency measures to curb these conducts, to prevent corruption, tax evasion, tax evasion and to really boost corporate social responsibility. This decree will be a new gatopardian exercise to appear to combat opacity and bad practices when, in some way, they are allowed and perpetuated. We will see why and see how it can be restored or repaired, but at the outset this decree has at least important formal defects, such as that it does not meet the requirements required by article 86.1 of the Constitution to transpose the directive by royal decree-law. As much as you want to make it clear that it was necessary, it is not justified, as the Constitutional Court itself has repeatedly told you. It is true that the Constitutional Court, when it comes to the Government of Spain, forgets to put the vest of enforceability and to point out to them the obligation to do things differently. It is true that in transposing this royal decree the European Commission gave them two more months to catch up. Still, you have failed again. It is therefore clear that in the responsibility for law enforcement you are not very gallant either. You had a bill to be able to refer to Congress and you haven't, you'll know why. In any case, as we go this legislature will be characterized by being in which fewer bills are presented and more real decrees end up being validated. As for the content, to begin with, we will say that its royal decree is a sin of a purely financial and economicist approach and forgets that part which is most devoted to the social sphere, to social security, to employment, to self-employment, to the social economy, etc. That is to say, they forget one of the main functions and objectives of the transposition of the European directive itself. I believe that the dialogue outside is failing you, but also the internal dialogue in the ministerial cabinet itself, in this case with the Minister for Employment, which you also lack at home. They lack it externally, but also internally. Moreover, as Intermon Oxfam indicates - I am already going directly to the bottom of the content of the actual decree-law itself -, we could talk, and it is not done, of the fiscal behavior of the company, of the impact that aggressive fiscal practices can have both on society, by limiting the capacity of the state, as on the shareholders owners, given the fines that have been faced by some of these companies... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u167	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u168	Transposition could have opened the door to the transparency of corporate tax policies and you have not done so, you are short on transposing the directive itself. Another aspect to be improved - if it is dealt with as a draft law we can do so - is the possibility of talking about wage dispersion, the lowest maximum-wage ratio measure of the company, a topic of special relevance at the moment in the European Union. We're losing a chance again. The royal decree does nothing about it, but if it were to be treated as a bill, I repeat, we could have an impact on this aspect. Or, as indicated by Workers' Commissions, the actual or potential adverse consequences could be identified so that they can be avoided or mitigated in their impact, include active and demonstrable measures to prevent and, where appropriate, remedy the consequences in relation to the issue of corporate social responsibility. There are many more substantive issues, and if we are lucky enough to have it treated as a bill we will be able to improve this royal decree. In any case, as I said at the beginning of my speech, Esquerra Republicana is going to abstain. We will be voting in favour of it being treated as a draft law, so that it can be improved and thus be brought into line with the transposition of the European directive to ensure that non-financial, social and environmental information for large IBEX companies can transparently reflect their activity in order to prevent corruption, evasion and tax evasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u169	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u170	Thank you very much, President. Allow me, before I begin with the subject, to show my condemnation and my revulsion for the murder of Victor Láinez, who was killed for carrying straps with the flag of Spain. [[Applauds]] I wanted to show my solidarity and send my condolences to Victor's family and friends. And entering into the debate - all the previous speakers have already told you, Minister - we once again discuss the transposition of a European directive, and we do so again, as is customary and unfortunately, through the form of the decree-law. This is already, as I say, customary, and it is also customary the same excuse that they present us: they are going to sanction us from Europe and we have to do so. This no longer hangs, Minister. I think it's all right, that you should do your job and introduce the bills in time. I asked a question a while ago precisely how many directives had to be transposed and as of 3 November there were pending transposition thirty-two, some of them with a deadline for transposition July 2015, and this directive should have been transposed on 6 December 2016. Do you think this is serious? I don't think it is. I believe that Spain deserves us to comply, to comply in time, to comply with Europe, with the rest of our partners. Nor is it worth us, Minister, to say that they were in office for a long time and, of course, could not... It has already been more than a year, Minister, in office and it is time to make decisions, it is time to pass bills. That's right, last week we were listening at a press conference after the Council of Ministers that in 2018 they were going to make a plan, they were going to intensify their legislative initiative. More than intensifying I would talk about starting, because so far what they bring us are all decrees laws, but welcome is that proposal for the new year. Let us hope that it will be fulfilled and that it will not be an unfulfilled promise. Of course, from our parliamentary group we believe that it is good to increase the information and transparency of companies, but, Minister, I believe that the government also has to start by fulfilling, setting an example and preaching with that example, because on these issues, in the area of transparency, regeneration and the fight against corruption, this government is unfortunately struggling, it is there always dragging its feet and we have to go, as always, pushing. And here we have the investment agreement between Citizens and the People's Party that on this issue of transparency and regeneration is not fulfilled and nothing has been done. Moreover, you have here the Transparency Act that you passed in 2013, which is pending development by regulation and is still there. Welcome the information and transparency of companies, but also to be implemented by the Government. Focusing already on the issue of the decree-law and the transposition of the directive, of course it is an important advance in corporate social responsibility. In addition, it covers several points of the investiture agreement, and in this the Socialist Party gentlemen, who are so concerned about how the investiture agreement between Citizens and the People's Party is going, should take note. This already covers two points in the investiture agreement, 41 and 73, which concern measures to promote equality and combat discrimination. For us, it is a priority to modernise the productive model and also, within this modernization of the productive model, to apply of course all measures to reconcile work and family life and to eliminate discrimination on any grounds of gender. We also believe that this royal decree will be positive because it will serve to identify the risks to the sustainability of companies. This will bring greater confidence to investors, consumers and society at large because greater confidence is positive for the economy and its growth, and therefore for society as a whole. Improving transparency will also facilitate the understanding of the organization and its business and the non-financial reporting exercise will help to measure, monitor and manage the performance of companies and their impact on society. [[The lady]] But, Minister, some previous speakers have already said that this transposition has been unambitious, it has been a minimal transposition. I will give you an example, and the directive says that States will be able to require that the information be verified by an independent verification service provider. For in the royal decree-law this requirement is not established. We believe that it would be good to establish this requirement because it is not only a good thing that information is given, that the companies give it, but it is important that it is checked whether the information provided by the companies is true or not. In short, we will vote in favour of validation, we will also vote in favour of its processing as a bill because we believe that the appropriate parliamentary procedure can improve the draft by means of amendments. Finally, as this is the last plenary of the year, I just want to wish you all a happy Christmas, happy holidays, especially all the House workers who make our work much easier. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u171	Thank you very much, Mr Gómez García. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President, and good morning. The economic theory and the most basic intuition tell us that in capitalism companies seek to maximize their profit, that is to say increase the financial balance and get more income than expenses in the profit and loss account. Neoclassical theory, which enthuses Citizens, says that if companies maximize profits and consumers maximize their usefulness, an optimal balance will be achieved. The trick is that these conditions are not met, only in the Yupi worlds, and in the market economy market failures are intrinsic and widespread. In many cases, maximizing the benefit of companies occurs at the expense of the environment, society or the economy itself, causing so-called externalities, i.e. indirect effects of production that have an impact on the well-being of third parties. Can you imagine, on the other hand, that the companies, instead of exclusively devoting themselves to inflating their financial balance, internalized within the production function all these social and environmental externalities that occur both inside and outside the company? This is what arises from the approach of the economy of the common good, it is founded on the fact that companies include in their financial balance only these previously reflected issues but that additional balances - of the common good - could be made to include key aspects for the well-being of society, such as wage differences, gender equality, environmental impact. And this cannot depend only on the goodwill of companies, but there must be tools to measure these social and environmental values and so that the regulator can encourage certain virtuous behaviors and discourage harmful ones. The European directive on which this royal decree is based is somewhat inspired by this approach. The purpose of the directive is to oblige large companies to be transparent and thus encourage them to integrate certain behaviours of corporate social responsibility. But of course, you in the government do not understand either the economy of the common good or the economy in general because for you the invisible hand of the market is Mr Bárcenas sharing envelopes from the companies of IBEX 35. [[Applauds]] And as always when a directive comes from Europe you in the government try to dilute it as much as possible in its transposition. Firstly, this royal decree is going to have less impact than could be the case under the directive, as the number of undertakings within its scope is being reduced. For example, the Royal Decree adds that, in addition to the number of employees of the companies concerned - which would have to be 500, according to the directive - the companies would have to have a turnover of more than 40 million or a consolidated assets of more than 20 million. In this way, as I said, the scope of the rule is reduced with regard to what is going on in the directive. What we should do is just the opposite: to extend the incidence of the rule because let us not forget that the Community directives set out are minimums that can then be expanded and improved in transposition. In addition, the content of the non-accountable information reflected in the actual decree is too generic and much more needs to be done and clear indicators established on the level of greenhouse emissions, on the environmental practices carried out by companies, on the use of renewable energy, on the tax risk arising from the operation in tax havens of many companies, on trade union representation in companies, on the wage gap that occurs, on compliance with the Equality Act, on compliance with sex harassment protocols in the company, etc. They are commitments that, in many cases, are already required to implement the previously adopted standards, but on which there is currently no follow-up by the Government. Similarly, the fact that the Royal Decree is in the hands of the Ministry of Economy rather than the Ministry of Employment, to which a general directive on social responsibility is attached, seems to be an attempt to jump to the State Social Responsibility Council, which should have an active role in the elaboration of such regulations. This is an interministerial council also formed by representatives of business organisations, trade unions and institutions in the field of corporate social responsibility; that is, once again the Government is trying to prevent civil society from drawing up rules on which it has something to say. This, moreover, is coupled with the poor implementation of the objectives pursued by this royal decree, where no clear indicators of compliance measurement are established and no sanctioning regime is included to force companies to internalize the rules that are intended to be established. In short, because of the limitations of this royal decree, we believe that it is a missed opportunity to transpose a directive that effectively obliges companies to increase transparency and, in this way, to encourage socially and environmentally responsible behaviour. For this reason, we are going to request that it be treated as a bill so that the other groups can make the necessary amendments. The royal decree not only comes bad but also comes late. Your excuse for proposing this initiative by means of a royal decree is once again the fine that may be imposed by not transposing it, but it is that this directive is from 2014, gentlemen, and it is worth four minutes to register the veto to the proposed law of the rule of spending but three years to transpose a directive...Do not come to us now in haste, gentlemen of the government. In any case, it seems that today, too, the process of this initiative will be approved as a bill so that we can make the amendments so that the directive is properly transposed and that large companies really start implementing socially responsible behaviour. I know that you, the government, are equally responsible for social responsibility because it is for you to be socially responsible for rescuing banks that defuse families while making cuts in health and education; it is that, as Keynes said, that yesterday was widely cited here in the debate on the spending rule, the difficult thing is not to develop new ideas but to escape from the old ones; so start there, gentlemen of the government. Thank you very much and Merry Christmas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u173	Thank you very much, Mr González García. Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u174	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the validation of the Royal Decree-Law to transpose a directive for the dissemination of non-financial information, such as working conditions, environmental impacts, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption by certain large companies. A disclosure that is not a minor issue for socialists and that is very related to corporate social responsibility; in fact, I have to thank Mr Campuzano for the special mention he has made for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and for our MEP Ramón Jáuregui, in the sense that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has been working for a decade to promote precisely the development of corporate social responsibility. But, Minister, as you know - and after all the previous speakers have spoken, I will not insist - this transposition is late, but it is also that Spain is the last country to transpose the directive, once again becoming the last country in Europe to comply with its European obligations. So it does so very late, but it also does so with shortcomings, because it generates more questions than answers, it misses the opportunity to concreteize the information so that it is comparable between companies and a useful tool for stakeholders. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important issue in many respects, and the transposition of this directive is an opportunity for companies operating in Spain, but also for the general interest of citizens. Only financial information is no longer sufficient to value companies; there are aspects of the strategic and operational environment of unrecognized entities that are also value-generating. Investors are increasingly pressured to know what the risks of companies are, where they produce, how they do, what environmental and fiscal risks they have. Companies are already aware of this, and many, more and more, are offering non-financial information based on their corporate responsibility policies on a voluntary basis, assuming that the benefits of their dissemination are greater than the associated costs. However, many of them are limited to publishing mere data statistics that should evolve towards measuring impacts and achieving business objectives consistent with sustainable development objectives. In addition, non-financial information requires homogeneity in order to make it comparable and to make it accessible to know what the impacts of companies on society are, which will help channel investment and consumption towards socially ethical and responsible companies. An increasingly informed society should demand more responsible behaviour from businesses, and in this regard, the non-financial state can be a good means to contribute to the improvement of responsible business practice and to manage the path towards a sustainable global economy that combines long-term profitability with social justice and environmental protection. Therefore, it cannot be an option, ladies and gentlemen, it must be an obligation for companies to report on how they are involved in solving the major global challenges, and especially now, after the serious economic crisis, the dizzying technological changes and the threat of climate change. [[Applauds]] But despite the importance of the issue, the Government - practically all the spokesmen who have spoken before me have said so - has made a smooth transposition and, moreover, leaves the door open to the omission of information when this can seriously harm the group's commercial position; an escape route that worries us, as it may constitute a risk of non-compliance with the information obligation by distorting the objective of transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot condone the government's lack of ambition and its lack of interest in transparency and social responsibility. That is why we believe that it is best that this royal decree be dealt with as a bill, and we welcome the Minister's consideration of exactly the same thing and he has told us that this will be promoted. In addition, in this process we must narrow it down, because we must improve it, we must go deeper into four aspects which we consider to be special and essential and which are neither developed nor concrete in that text; they are not, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, we should define and, in terms of information on the business model, we should specify the company's strategy in the medium and long term, beyond maximizing profit: what are its vision and values and how social and environmental impacts are integrated into its business approach. The aim is to enhance the company's social responsibility, which is not a marketing tool. It is about managers becoming aware, feeling socially and environmentally responsible and reflecting in what way, with what institutional objectives they are aligned. Secondly, we are concerned about the increase in inequality, and its origin is largely explained by wages. That is why we want to provide information on equal pay for men and women, which is not provided for in the actual decree, information on remuneration by professional level, conciliation policy and other working conditions. It is important that companies identify and measure how working conditions impact the growth of inequality and commit themselves to reducing it. Thirdly, information in tax planning to ensure that taxes are paid fairly and avoid aggressive tax avoidance. Increased transparency in the transfer of capital in tax havens. Information on the countries in which the company operates should be included by reporting on profits, taxes or public aid received in each of them, as well as specifying the measures that the company provides to prevent it from falling into corrupt practices. And, fourthly and lastly - I conclude, Madam President - we must incorporate the mandatory verification of information, as well as the determination of the consequences of non-compliance with the non-submission or falsehood of the non-submission, which does not reflect the text that is before us today. For all that has been said, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against the validation of the Royal Decree-Law and vote in favour of processing as a bill with the intention of increasing corporate transparency, but above all to move towards a change in business mentality that is more respectful of the environment and more committed to equality and justice. I am convinced that this will bring about much stronger economic growth and jobs. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u175	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanquer Alcaraz. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Palmer Tous.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u176	President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree-law is presented here today for debate and approval, whose technical appearance cannot, it must not, conceal its importance for the future of our companies, even - I dare say - for the future of our society. I explain: the classic business definition has been really monochromatic and partial. Understanding a company as a unit formed by a group of people, material goods and financial resources that aims to produce something or provide a service that covers a need for benefits is a vision as limited as it is out of date. As society evolves, as societies move forward, we have realized that corporate profit, although very important, cannot be the only goal a company has. There are countless colors and nuances that society claims to be incorporated into companies. Greater transparency, social commitments such as gender equality, tax payments as a way of changing society, environmental responsibility or a fair wage structure are just examples of what constitutes not only a demand for modern societies, but a guarantee of the survival of companies themselves. As Jeroen van der Veer, former CEO of Shell said: In my opinion, the successful companies of the future will be those that decide to align the company's values with the personal values of their employees; the best talents want to do a job that contributes to society with a company whose values share, where their shares count and their opinions matter. If we want to move forward in this direction, the first step must be to improve the measurement of the social impact of companies with the provision of better information and, with that effort, this decree-law establishes a new rule, that of introducing the obligation to publish information called non-financial by large companies and business groups. This is information in this case not related to large numbers of purely financial nature, which can be very useful for investment decisions or other economic operations; no, here we are talking about providing other information: information on social behaviour, environmental behaviour, wage structure, social reinvestment, diversity in composition on boards of directors; in the end, it is about changing numbers by values, and all this is done with the ultimate aim of increasing transparency, improving sustainability and increasing the confidence of investors, consumers and employees of society in general; in the end, in order to show socially responsible corporate behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, this is precisely the decree-law that we are bringing to this House today. We speak in this decree of transparency, of personal values, of social commitment, of responsibility, of the future, and I am therefore sure that we will meet the rest of the parliamentary groups, because we agree - I believe - with the philosophy underlying the decree. Having said that, it seems that we will not find ourselves in shape because, seeing the criticisms that have been cast today, we are once again faced with the typical mantras of the opposition, and I am referring to the repeated criticisms regarding the delay in the transposition of directives and the use of the decree-law as a legislative instrument. Let me refer briefly to these issues at this time, which are clearly not in substance, because I believe that in substance we agree. Firstly, as regards the delay in approval, the last deadline for transposition is in December 2016. That's true, but I want to remind you of something. Do you remember what happened before and during those dates? Since we did not have a Government, yes, we did have a Government in office that could not undertake such reforms, a Government that was in particular in office since 26 October 2015, when the Courts were dissolved for the elections, which means that we had nothing more and nothing less than almost a year of government in office, I repeat, time when certain decisions could not be made. In that context I would like to point out a curiosity. At that time, articles of opinion were written which made clear the explanation of the delay in transposing directives such as the one entitled 'The 20 European directives paralysed by the political blockade'. It seems, therefore, that the media better understood a problem that some of you not only did not understand and understand, but in some cases also helped to create, and helped to create it with proposals from impossible coalitions that de facto prevented stable governments and forced the elections to repeat. Do you remember? [[Applauds]] With regard to the reference to the use of the decree-law as an instrument of transposition, it should be noted, as the Minister has said, that there are reasons justifying the extraordinary and urgent need to transpose the various directives through that instrument. Following the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 13 January 2012, which endorses its use in the event of the occurrence of conditions such as the patent delay in transposition - I have already said that it had to be approved before December 2016 - or the existence of infringement proceedings against the Kingdom of Spain, such as the one actually started in January 2017. Therefore, there were and were factors necessary to justify the use of the decree-law. Ladies and gentlemen, to end now, once the infringement procedure has been closed, I sincerely say to you: let us focus on what is important, which is the substance of this initiative, where the objective, as I have said, I believe is shared. At this point there is nothing to prevent us from improving the norm by dialogue and seeking the consensus of all the parties concerned. Let us therefore work on it. Ladies and gentlemen, society requires transparency in public action, both in administrations and in companies. In our group, the People's Parliamentary Group, we have been betting on that transparency and we do it with facts, not words. I would like to recall here the adoption of the Law on Transparency for Administrations - adopted, by the way, without the support of some of the groups present - and now with this new regulation we continue to make progress in our commitment, in our real commitment to transparency and accountability, that we are convinced must guide any action that affects the well-being of our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palmer Tous. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 19/2017, OF 24 NOVEMBER, OF BASIC PAY ACCOUNTS, RELATED TO PAY ACCOUNTS AND COMPARABILITY OF COMMISSIONS. [[File number 130/000025]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u178	We turn to the following point: Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 19/2017, of 24 November, of basic payment accounts, transfer of payment accounts and comparability of commissions. To present the royal decree, the Minister of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u179	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise again in this rostrum to defend the second royal decree-law of the Ministry of Economy which it presents for validation this morning. This rule, to which the Council of Ministers also gave the green light on 24 November last, literally transposes the European directive on basic payment accounts. This is a transposition which, as was the case in the previous case, has been out of date since mid-September last year, which has led the Commission to decide to refer Spain to the Court of Justice of the European Union. It is therefore urgent, for the same reasons as in the previous case, to approve the transposition in order to avoid the formalisation of the complaint. The objective of the measures included in this rule is twofold. On the one hand, improving financial inclusion, preventing some consumers from being excluded from access to certain services, mainly because of the low profitability they provide to the bank and, on the other hand, enhancing the European market in the retail sector, promoting effective and fluid mobility in the financial field and thus deepening the banking union. To achieve these ends, the Decree-Law regulates three aspects. First, the universal right of access to a basic payment account is guaranteed. This new banking product is a payment account denominated in euro, which will have to be opened in a credit institution and will allow at least access to the transactions necessary for the opening, use and closing of the account, the deposit of funds, the withdrawal of cash in offices of the institution or in cashiers of all the Member States of the Union, card payments, including online payments, home payments and transfers, all of them within the European Union. All credit institutions shall be obliged to provide access to such accounts to all natural persons. They may only refuse to open them or may terminate contracts in very specific and particular cases, in particular where the customer does not provide the information required by the entity according to the level of risk of money laundering or terrorist financing, as provided for in national law; where there is a record that the account is used for non-legal purposes or where its opening is contrary to the interests of national security or public policy. Nor will this basic account be made available to consumers who already have a different type of account that allows them to access the same services. As regards the fees applicable to the basic payment accounts, they shall be those agreed between the parties, but the Ministry of Economy shall fix ceilings which shall be reasonable and which shall be based on the relative national income level in relation to all the countries of the Union and on the equivalent average service fees. In addition, the Government reserves the capacity to establish more advantageous conditions for vulnerable groups. Secondly, the Decree-Law introduces regulatory amendments to guarantee the right to transfer payment accounts within the same entity or to a different entity, provided that it is based in Spain. This provision shall apply to all payment service providers and not only to credit institutions and all types of payment accounts, not only to the basics mentioned above. A fast, fast and effective account transfer procedure is also regulated, with a maximum duration of 13 days. In addition, in the event that the customer incurs a cost due to non-compliance in the account transfer process, the service provider, the bank, shall reimburse the customer for that cost. Transfers may only be refused to customers with outstanding obligations in such accounts, e.g. for card payments. The Ministry of Economy shall regulate the procedures for the transfer of cross-border accounts. As regards the maximum fees that may be charged for this service, they must be in line with the costs actually borne by the institution. Although I had previously commented that this royal decree-law is strictly in line with the text of the directive, a provision has been included that goes beyond the Community standard but is necessary to supplement it and that allows financial services customers to cancel an account within 24 hours. The third aspect of the Royal Decree-Law seeks to improve the transparency and comparability of fees applied to payment accounts. To this end, payment service providers are required to provide their customers with an information document of the fees associated with the services. In the case of a citizen interested in opening an account, the commission information must be provided well in advance of the signing of the contract. In addition, at least once a year, entities shall provide their customers with a free statement of all fees they have incurred for the services associated with their payment account. The Banco de España shall lay down the requirements to be met by both documents, which shall in any case be precise, brief and with a clear structure. In addition, the supervisory body will enable a free Internet commission comparer to the prices offered by the different providers. It will also monitor the information on payment account fees offered by private buyers, who will have to sign a responsible statement and indicate which company it belongs to. As I mentioned earlier, the extraordinary and urgent need to use a real decree-law to transpose this directive is based on the risk that we will be fined for the delay we have experienced. And as was the case with the previous royal decree-law, also in this case, the situation of a government in office, which lasted almost a year, is behind this delay. However, beyond the urgency of moving the rule forward, I think it is worth it to have the maximum possible support for the purposes it pursues. Ladies and gentlemen, the creation of this new basic payment account, the facilitation of the transfer of accounts and the need for more information on the commissions, I think they are objectives that we all share. On the one hand, because it leads to greater transparency, but also because it eliminates the financial exclusion of certain social groups and because it deepens the construction of an internal market for retail products that favours competition. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope to get support for the validation of the text by the parliamentary groups in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u180	Thank you very much, Minister. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi, is taking part in the round of fixing positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u181	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, let me tell you that we are going to vote in favour and let me also tell you that we are going to ask for the processing of this royal decree as a bill. You have already made it clear when you came up to the rostrum: we are out of date. We would have liked someone to take responsibility for why we're out of line. It is almost a year since this directive had to be transposed and we understand that there has been enough time, even, to avoid its processing as a royal decree-law. I would like to make it clear to you that they already have twenty-seven or twenty-seven - I have already lost count - royal decrees-laws, and one comes to the conclusion that this legislature in this House is more legislated through royal decree-law than through laws. That would seem worrisome to us, and more so when many of these royal decree-laws are not treated later as a law, even if in some sense it is reasonable to do so, because someone can understand that it is being legislated more outside the House than in the House itself and that here come pre-cooked texts, essentially by the Government and its partners, assets and liabilities, and the rest of the groups we have to say that yes or no or no have the opportunity to amend it. [[The lady]] Mr Minister, without going into the background, these are obviously important issues, which may seem technical to someone, but which are of great importance to our fellow citizens, and we would therefore like to table some amendments. I do not hide from you that there is also some aspect in the competition field that we would like to be able to analyse more closely between each other, and also make some improvement so that no one has any suspicion - including us - that there may be any competitive invasion in some of the autonomous communities. In any case, we hope that it can be dealt with as a bill and there they will find us. However, I say to you that for this initial procedure you will have our vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u183	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in part this debate was already held in April 2017 with a proposal for a law on cash withdrawal commissions, which included, among other things, the creation of a current account for essential minimum services. The Royal Decree-Law aims to transpose into our domestic law Directive 2014/92, which will guarantee access to a payment account entitled to carry out basic transactions such as deposit accounts, cash withdrawal, transfers or card payment, among others. As I said before, the explanatory statement justifies the use of the royal decree-law in the fact that there is a backlog in transposition, but we do not believe that it can be said that the extraordinary urgency required by the constitutional precept is to be met, because it is more than predictable because we knew the date of adoption of the directive and the deadline for transposition. Although it is also true, and I can buy it from the Government, which was partly in office. Financial inclusion refers to access by individuals and businesses to a variety of affordable financial products and services that meet their needs such as payments and transfers, and access to a transaction account is a first step towards it. In Europe, it is virtually impossible to participate in social and economic life without having to do with the financial system, for example, it is very difficult to pay for electricity or gas receipts or to receive a payroll in cash. We live in a demobilization process where cash payments are increasingly limited. The priority, and sometimes mandatory, way of making or receiving payments - also with the Administration - is the bank current account. In this context, it is logical to grant citizens a right to the current account or, at least, the basic services associated with that account. In a modern society, in order not to be excluded and to be able to hire essential services, citizens need a current income and payment account, regardless of their income level. And we are talking not only about basic accounts for the most disadvantaged groups, but also for those European citizens who need mobility within the territory of the European Union because of their professions, for example, displaced workers or students who want to have a basic account in a Member State where they are not residents. This is what the directive tells us that we are going to transpose - it will finally be transposed into the legal system - and that it introduces financial inclusion in European Union legislation in a legally binding way, specifically as a right of legal residents in it to open a basic payment account, an account that will facilitate access to a number of services such as opening, use and closing of current account, cash withdrawal, use of cards. [[Rumors]] It should also be noted that the Royal Decree-Law goes a little beyond the directive, as it also allows consumers to cancel their account...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u184	Please, I beg a little silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u185	It should be noted that the Royal Decree-Law goes a little further than the directive as it allows consumers to cancel an account in twenty-four hours. However, and despite agreeing with the decree, we would like to comment, as a small criticism, on the reference to the question of commissions, since there has been talk of a maximum commission, but we still do not know its amount, despite the fact that transparency seems to be ensured while payment service providers must provide the potential customer with a commission information document sufficiently in advance for it to be reviewed. Moreover, the countries that have made the most progress in terms of financial inclusion are those that have created an enabling regulatory environment and have promoted competition, allowing banking and non-banking institutions to expand access to financial services, all with consumer protection measures that ensure responsible provision of financial services. That is why the proposal contained in the directive, which is now being transposed, we believe that it is a positive step because it is moving in this direction, while I have said that it seeks to achieve the full financial inclusion of European citizens. For all this, we will vote in favour of the validation of the royal decree-law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Ten Oliver has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government brings to this House another validation, that of the Royal Decree-Law 19/2017 to transpose another directive, 2014/92 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 23 July 2014. I repeat, July 23, 2014, three and a half years ago. Two opinions, Minister: one by form, by delay, and the other by content. We understand that it is beneficial - you have explained it to us - but your ninety-two articles are unambitious and so, although my group will not oppose this royal decree-law, we would have enriched the text, as I will later explain. Let us begin, first of all, by form and delay. The Directive stated that Member States will adapt their rules by 18 September 2016 at the latest, more than a year has passed. In fact, there was a 2011 recommendation from the European Union, 442, calling for its implementation in six months. In addition, the very statement of reasons for this royal decree contains three facts that demonstrate this extraordinary and urgent need or perhaps the passiveness of the Government. First, on 23 November 2016, the European Commission initiated a formal infringement procedure. Secondly, a reasoned opinion was issued in April 2017 to comply with the Directive within two months. Thirdly, in view of this passiveness and inactivity of the Government, the College of Commissioners decided to bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union. By the way, I am not worth the excuse of the months of a government in office, as the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Palmer, has said, because the directive is July 2014. Of course, we are used to hurrying for their lewdness. The truth is that we are also used to hearing that our financial system is the most robust in the world, you didn't say it, you said it, Rodriguez Zapatero in September 2008, or that bank bailout would not cost Spanish taxpayers, you did say it, Minister. [[The Lord]] We all know - and the Bank of Spain and the Court of Auditors have agreed - that it will cost us more than EUR 60 billion. By the way, in the Committee of Inquiry into the financial crisis in Spain, many respondents would have liked them to have acted much more quickly and urgently because, ladies and gentlemen, the effects of the crisis could have been reduced. We're always late, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, let's talk about the content now. They say it's never too late if the bliss is good. Well, good or regular. The Royal Decree-Law partly reflects the text of the directive, but it is not ambitious. Moreover, it is rather restrictive; coming from the PP may understand it a little. I should like to explain that Article 18 of the directive itself provides that the Member States shall ensure that the committees are reasonable. However, you speak first of the free agreement between the parties and then of the ministry setting and setting a maximum. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group is concerned about financial exclusion, because finding formulas to reduce these inequalities and costs is a way to help those most in need. For example, you know that the collection of a commission can cause it to be discovered in a current account and this implies the need to return receipts, that interest must be paid out and the corresponding bank fees paid. It's something that's inexhaustible to many users. According to the EFE Agency, entities have increased the cost of discoveries by 45% over the past ten years. The Banco de España sees excessive fees for uncovered claims. The supervisor published the memo a few days ago reporting that there were 30,000 complaints. That is why, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, Minister, the content can be improved. In the agreement of 150 commitments to improve Spain with the People's Party were collected some measures aimed at correcting all this. For example, point 10, by facilitating the use of electronic means of payment for small amounts, we were talking about 10 euros, reducing fees and, by the way, combating tax fraud. You may not be concerned about that, but point 15 set out the intention to create an independent consumer and investor protection authority. Point 16 was to strengthen consumer rights to avoid unfair clauses and bad practices. You will ask me how, but you yourself have already said so, primarily with banking transparency, with banking information that is homogeneous, comparable, immediate, accessible and, of course, at no cost. Minister, opacity is not a democratic guarantee, it is absolute impunity. As a button shows, the looting of savings boxes, politicized by you. I'm done. Minister, this royal decree comes late - yes, we recognize it - with little ambition - yes - but, in any case, the adaptation of the European directive in our system is a guarantee of access to basic payment accounts and regulates banking fees in a much more transparent and accessible way, that is, much better than before. Ladies and gentlemen, you choose or return to the village, as do those who want to raise walls, such as the independentists, or feel equal in Europe, to talk about you to the rest of the countries in rights, guarantees, commissions and services. Ladies and gentlemen, to the extent that we are capable and make more Europe, we will make our citizens more free and equal. That is the raison d'être of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. I just want to wish you a happy Christmas and thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Ten. Next, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u189	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you know that one of the consequences that the crisis has brought us, but which we are practically not talking about at the moment, is that of financial exclusion. Financial exclusion basically has two dimensions: on the one hand, that of those who have seen the possibility of physically accessing a bank - a savings bank or any other type of financial institution - disappears. This is the result of the process of bank concentration and readjustment, which has been taking place in the banking sector over the years, which has essentially led to a reduction in the number of entities and a drastic reduction in the number of bank branches. By giving them data, since the onset of the crisis in 2008, the number of credit institutions has fallen by 43 %, being much higher, almost doubling, than the reduction in the number of banking institutions in the eurozone by 25 %. This has a counterpart that is the concentration of the banking sector: the five main financial institutions in that country, banking institutions, have seen their market share increase by 20% at the same time. Moreover, I am sure that the minister knows the index of Herfindahl, which is used in cases of approval or refusal of bank mergers. Well, the Herfindahl index has increased by 89% in Spain during the same period, while in Europe it has increased by only 5.1%. [[Rumors]] This means that the concentration of the banking sector in Spain at the moment is almost 30% higher than the euro area average. [[The Rumors Continue]] That with data from the European Central Bank and before two important events that have occurred in 2017...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u190	One moment, Mr. Montero, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg your silence. We are at the last point in the morning, but please ask them to keep their attention and silence and, if they have to hold very important talks, do so in the corridors, not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u191	I promise to be brief, ladies and gentlemen, I promise to be brief. As I said, there were two important facts in 2017 and I will make a couple of considerations about them. One, Bankia's merger with BMN; two, Santander's ball with the Popular. These two elements have further aggravated the banking concentration. With regard to Bankia, Minister, congratulations are due, you have managed in three years to sell the same equity package for EUR 500 million less. It has been a magnificent operation that makes you forget that your main responsibility is to rescue the money that all taxpayers put in to rescue the banking system, and not to speed up the sale of a public-owned bank, which could be used as a public bank. I repeat, EUR 500 million less. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I take the opportunity to involve all Members of the House that the appearance of the President of the Single Resolution Board, Mrs König, last Monday in the Committee on the Investigation of Financial Rescue was a real shame, to say the least, because she came to mock this House, which is the depositary of popular sovereignty, in a country where the sixth bank of the country has been resolved and left without its savings and without its investments to more than 300,000 families. I would like to know what the minister's speech would be if what happened to the Popular had happened in a couple of countries - I don't know, I think so, soon - like Venezuela or Iran. What would be your speech if that had happened in those countries? The second dimension of the crisis is that of the cost of accessing a basic bank account. Although it seems a lie to you, at the moment in this country not being able to access a bank account is a reason for social exclusion, and there are added complaints that are contained in the text of the royal decree-law: the lack of transparency of the commissions and their cost, the opacity, the discretion of the banking system, the amount of the latter, especially to enlarge the result account at these times of low or negative interest rates, and the difficulty to change account. Above all, the European Union legislated with a directive a couple of years ago and now we are faced with the fact that, in an accelerated manner and with the threat of a fine, we have to approve or reject this royal decree-law. Mrs. Palmer, the delay is not a mantra. When the same thing happens many times it becomes a custom or a routine. Mantras are something else. [[Laughter]] So we come to this moment with an initiative that is not born of the government, but that you bring it because in Brussels you impose it by showing, in some way, that it is very difficult for you to legislate against the interests of the banking system and that what you bring us in terms of content is, as my mother would say, the least that is done in terms of transposition of directives, the most basic thing: recognition of the right to a basic payment account, facilitating the transfer of accounts so that it is the entities that support the processing and that the commissions are more transparent, public and accessible. Can you be against this? Obviously, no; you can't be against this. What we are against is the way in which they have brought it, late and in the form of a royal decree-law, and we are also against part of the fund of it, because, as you have been told, it is unambitious, especially with regard to the issue of basic payment accounts. We had a magnificent opportunity to have addressed the problem of financial exclusion in an integral way and let it pass. [[Rumors]] So we're not going to stand against the royal decree-law, but we're not going to comply with its content either. We will vote in favour of it because the transposition is done, it would not be responsible to delay the implementation of the rights, and we recriminate them for the lack of diligence. In order to cover their lack of diligence and their lack of content in the transposition, we inform you that we will present as soon as possible a proposal for a law that seeks to improve this text, allowing people without resources to access a bank account in a real, effective and free way, as has happened in other countries of our environment, in particular in Europe. Let us hope that at that time the sensitivity of this Government to the excluded will be greater than that shown in the transposition of the directive and that they will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much and happy holidays. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Montero. [[The Rumors Continue]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, before the next speaker starts, I would ask you to be quiet. I know that we are all congratulating each other on Christmas, but I assure you that the best congratulations for the speaker and for this presidency are the respect for the speaker. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u193	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, and there are many, the Government is bringing to this House a real decree-law to try to amend for the urgent procedure the result of its disdain and its inability, that is, of its mismanagement. It must be said loud and clear: ladies and gentlemen, this government is mismanaging the public. The transposition of Directive 2014/92/EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of July 2014 brings us a transposition that is partial and that is out of date, because the deadline for transposition was mid-September 2016. In view of the successive non-compliances with the Commission's requirements, the College of Commissioners adopted the decision of 4 October 2017 to bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Of course, the Minister for Economic Affairs will not be able to use, as he has done on other occasions, the argument of the existence of an interim government because, of course, he has had time. This government has not done its duty, and therefore, by failing to do its duty, it is now urgent to proceed with the transposition before the application is made before the Court of Justice and thus to avoid a judgment declaring that the Kingdom of Spain has failed to fulfil its obligations under Union law. Indeed, this Member is missing the reasons why President Rajoy speaks of the obvious prestige of his Minister for Economic Affairs as an argument for his confidence that he will enter the European Central Bank; of course, it will not be by his management, Minister. However, this lack of speed and willingness to transpose Community rules that benefit citizens, and which you have demonstrated, becomes the maximum speed and generosity in meeting the interests of investors and financial markets. Speaking of financial matters, why exactly now? In a publicised and closed operation in just over two days, 7 % of Bankia is sold in a closed auction against the opinion of the majority of this Parliament, which calls for the recovery of the amount of aid provided to the entities rescued from taxpayers and, without requesting their authorisation, that of this Parliament, despite being a minority government. I would remind you that this Parliament adopted Royal Decree 4/2016 of 2 December, in which, among other measures, it was authorized to extend the period of divestment of the shares of Bankia and BMN until the end of 2019 and, in whose debate, the Minister of Economy - you, Mr De Guindos - said that this extension did not imply that the divestment would be postponed, but that more time would be available to make the obligation of divestment compatible with the maximisation of the revenue derived from it, an object expressly provided for in the resolution regulation. Does the Minister consider that the sale of 7 % of Bankia's shares below its acquisition value maximizes the value of the divestment and complies with resolution rules? What happened so that on December 15, 2016, the date of the debate of this royal decree, it was understood that the price of Bankia's share, which was 4,12 euros, was insufficient to make the disinvestment and it is decided to do it now when it was quoted in the environment of 4,15 on December 11, 2017? Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 the share is sold at 4.06 euros; in 2014 at 6.04 euros, and the State acquired it in 2012 at 5.40 euros. Multiply these prices by 201.5 million shares sold and they will get the amount of the breach to the Public Treasury. Why is it sold now and why is it sold with losses, Minister? Someone might think that the 7% sale of Bankia has been a currency of exchange, or exchange, to achieve different objectives precisely at a time when the post of Vice-President of the European Central Bank is at stake. All this requires clarification before this Parliament and, the Socialist Group, has asked for your appearance in this House to give an explanation of this new bloodbath to the public arks. [[Applauds]] The Royal Decree-Law 19/2017, presented today by the Government, as discussed above, seeks to facilitate access to potential customers to basic banking services by creating a financial product, such as the basic payment account, to facilitate financial inclusion, improve the transparency and comparability of fees applied to payment accounts and improve the transfer to payment accounts. The aim of this project is to deepen the construction of a real European market for retail financial products, in which the basic payment account is an essential element for financial inclusion. The aim is to promote a deeper and more efficient retail banking market that allows for a higher level of competition between service providers and improves the marketing conditions of products for consumers. And the improvement of financial inclusion is achieved through access to a basic payment account that is a right of every citizen, and States must ensure access to such accounts regardless of the financial circumstances of the consumer, whether his or her employment situation, income level, credit history or insolvency. The Socialist Group agrees to promote the establishment of a single market for banking products, retailers in the European Union, and of course to improve financial inclusion, but we do not share the partiality of the transposition of forms or that this Parliament should be used as a tool to save the government's bad practices by means of real forced and urgent decrees for inability to manage or share some of its contents. We will therefore abstain and seek to improve and complete it in its process of processing as a draft law, as we have requested. Look, a transposition with more than five chapters and twenty-two articles we believe that it deserves its processing as a bill, but we also believe that we need to better defend the rights of people at risk of exclusion and promote their true financial inclusion. We do not share the Government's decision to circumvent the point in the directive that Member States will ensure that credit institutions offer the services of the basic payment account at no charge - something that has been overlooked by the citizen's spokesman - or by applying a reasonable commission - Citizens want to pay a reasonable commission and we want them not to pay -, eliminates the possibility of payment accounts at no charge and leaves the commissions to be freely agreed between credit institutions and customers. It seems to us that this does not facilitate the financial inclusion of persons in situations of exclusion or insolvency and that it should be modified in the parliamentary procedure. That's why we ask the United We can support the processing as a bill of this rule in favor of the most humble people, those with financial problems, with financial inclusion problems and who are excluded. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Lasarte. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u195	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. [[The lady]] It seems that some of you have not listened to my colleague, Mrs Palmer, because you are still wrong about the delay in transposition. I am not going to repeat the same arguments, but I do want to transfer some data to Mr Lasarte in particular. I recently saw a statistic and, indeed, Spain has a transposition deficit of 2.4% while the EU average is 1.5 with 47 open infringement files, but this has improved considerably in recent years. [[Rumors]] Do you know what the points of non-compliance are in Spain and in what years? I will tell you: there are 115 cases opened in 2005 or 113 cases opened in 2007. [[Applauds]] You know who ruled in those years, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's socialist government and without a government functions, with a government full of powers. Today I would love to discuss with you Mr Montero, with Mr Ten, about the banking concentration, the sale of Bankia or the resolution of the People's Party, but I do not think it is the day nor the time nor the subject to discuss, and I think that perhaps they take them out because they do not have much more to say. [[Rumors]] I will tell you about the origin and the importance of the measures contained in this royal decree-law. The European Union and its internal market are based on four freedoms, and one of them is the free movement of capital and, to that end, market union is essential. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u196	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u197	Within it are financial services. Despite the institutional efforts made and the remarkable harmonisation achieved in recent years, the markets for these services remain fragmented. [[Rumors]] In fact, according to the special Eurobarometer of July 2016, only 7% of European consumers have acquired a financial service in another Member State of the Union. According to 2013 European Commission estimates, there are 12.3 million consumers living in a Member State other than that of origin, and the results of consumer surveys and complaints show that there are a large number of citizens who have or have had problems opening an account because they do not have a fixed address in the Member State from which the payment service provider issuing the account operates. [[Rumors]] These difficulties clearly clash with the European interests of creating a single territory of free movement... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u198	One second, Mr. Paniagua, one second. [[Pause.-Continue the rumors]] One second. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u199	Thank you, President. ... and are still obstacles to the development of a fully integrated market. Consumer confidence in the financial sector and in financial services in detail has also decreased due to the financial crisis and the damage to the reputation of the sector. In this regard, the European Commission published in December 2015 the Green Paper on financial services in detail, the aim of which is to create a genuine European market for financial services. In order to regain confidence and help expand the single market prior to this Green Paper, the European Union has adopted a number of legislative measures in this area; some of them are still being incorporated into national legislation, and this royal decree that the Government is voting on is one of these actions. They have come more and they will come more to this House and we must commit ourselves to working towards this objective which is important for the European Union, something on which we agree, I believe, most of the parliamentary groups. In addition, this royal decree seeks to avoid the financial exclusion of citizens. In 2012, there were eight European countries with a percentage of citizens in financial exclusion above 20%, a genuine barbarity - Spain stood at 7% and the European average at 14-; it was estimated that the total number of consumers over 15 years of age without a payment account in the European Union was 58 million, of whom 25 million would like to have one. This is therefore a very important public policy objective, both quantitatively and qualitatively. It has been the financial and economic crisis that has led to the identification and visibility of new forms of poverty and vulnerability, specific disadvantages and new factors of social exclusion. They have all become an essential part of the international policy agenda; that is how the sustainable development goals appear in the plans and principles of the G-20 and those of the World Bank and, logically, also for the European Union. In addition, the IMF says that there is a strong positive correlation between the increase in the use of banking services and the increase in per capita GDP; since the latter is very weak in the European Union in recent times, no lever available should be disregarded to try to improve it maximally if, as is the case with us, it can also help to improve the image of financial institutions among citizens. Thus, with the dual vision of including the most disadvantaged citizens in the financial system and, on the other hand, promoting cross-border activity in the internal market by eradicating the difficulties consumers face in trying to open a payment account in another country, the European Commission has designed this regulation. I want to end by expressing my satisfaction with the support of Uniti Podemos and its confluences with the royal decree; I am glad that they are participating in the legislative projects, as I know they are going to participate; I am glad that they contribute instead of asking and asking - I think we are also here to contribute - and I am also happy for their voters, because by participating they have a voice, and not just the usual destructive voice, but the constructive voice, the voice to improve this country. I'm sure those voters have that voice too. I would also like to convey a wish to continue this contribution: this participation with the rest of the groups in the joint projects we are facing. I always say, when I am asked about this legislature, that I think it can be one of the most important in democracy: the Toledo Pact, the Climate Change Act, autonomous financing, education, constitutional reform, public sector contracts, the Autonomous Act, innovation, gender-based violence, and so on, in short, many pacts, agreements, historic laws that we can pass, and all of us will be part of that history. Adolfo Suárez said that, despite the discrepancies, there was a very special field in which the vast majority of political, economic and social forces can and must reach agreement. This royal decree is one of those fields of agreement and I hope we can find many more. Citizens demand that we solve the problems and the future of our country, and that is where we must all work, including you. If we succeed, we will all be proud of our work and if not, we will have failed them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u200	We turn to the agenda item on the request for an extension of the deadline for the Sub-Commission on Electoral Reform, set up within the Constitutional Commission, for the issuance of its report until 30 June 2018. That request shall be put to an electronic vote, when requested by a parliamentary group, at the end of this session.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u201	We now turn to the last item on the agenda, concerning the request for a six-month extension of the deadline for the completion of the work of the Committee of Inquiry on the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party. That request shall be put to an electronic vote, when requested by a parliamentary group, at the end of this session. Ladies and gentlemen, the votes will begin in three minutes. Thank you very much. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. The vote will begin.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u202	We begin with the consideration of propositions of law. Proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, amending the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act, on the legal regime for animals. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 3 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 337 plus 3 telematics votes, 340.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u203	It was adopted unanimously. [[Applauds]] - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may in common may in Marea, on the amendment of criteria for the application of the [[ORGANISATION]] [[File number 122/000132]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u204	We shall now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to the vote on the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the modification of the criteria for applying the expenditure rule. [[of the United Nations]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 3 telematics votes, 340; 173 plus 2 telematics votes, 175; 162 plus 1 telematics vote, 163; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u205	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u206	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the non-consideration of unity of living in certain situations, for the purposes of access to and maintenance of social security pensions in their non-contributory form. We shall vote for it, ladies and gentlemen, on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 336 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u207	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the need not to discriminate THE CONSUMPTION OF THE PRODUCTS OF CATALAN COMPANIES. [[File number 162/000514]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u208	We now turn to the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the need not to discriminate against the consumption of the products of Catalan companies. We are going to vote on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 248 against, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u209	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u210	We shall now proceed to vote on the motions as a result of an inquiry. Firstly, the motion for urgent questioning by the Socialist Group on the improvement of widow's pensions for persons aged sixty-five or more with lower incomes. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 170 against, 130 abstentions, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u211	It's approved. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE PLANS OF THE DEPARTMENTAL MINISTER FOR THE IMPULSION OF THE MEDITERRANEAN CORREDOR. [[File number 173/000069]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u212	We now vote on the motion following urgent questioning by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, on the plans of the Ministry of Development for the push of the Mediterranean Corridor. We voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 334 against, 1 abstention, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u213	It's approved. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) may in common be invited to attend on the subject of the Government's policy on the administration of justice. [[File number 173/000070]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u214	We now vote on the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the government's policy on the administration of justice. We voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 86 against, 133 abstentions, 118.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u215	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u216	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, Royal Decree-Law 18/2017 of 24 November, amending the Commercial Code, the consolidated text of the Capital Companies Act approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010 of 2 July, and Law 22/2015 of 20 July, Audit of Accounts in the field of non-financial information and diversity. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 3 telematics votes, 340; 175 plus 1 telematics vote, 176; against, 1; abstentions, 161 plus 2 telematics votes, 163.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u217	The royal decree-law is validated. We will now vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the bill for the urgency procedure of the Royal Decree-Law 18/2017 of 24 November, amending the Commercial Code, the consolidated text of the Capital Companies Act approved by Royal Decree-Law 1/2010 of 2 July, and the 22/2015 Act of 20 July on Audit of Accounts in the field of non-financial information and diversity. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 339 votes in favour, 330 votes in favour, 333 votes against, 5 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u218	Consequently, it is dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 19/2017, OF 24 NOVEMBER, OF BASIC PAY ACCOUNTS, RELATED TO PAY ACCOUNTS AND COMPARABILITY OF COMMISSIONS. [[File number 130/000025]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u219	We now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on Royal Decree-Law 19/2017, of 24 November, of basic payment accounts, transfer of payment accounts and comparability of commissions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 3 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 239 plus 2 telematics votes, 241; against, 4; abstentions, 94 plus 1 telematics vote, 95.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u220	The royal decree-law is validated. We now vote for the processing as a bill by the urgency procedure of Royal Decree-Law 19/2017, of 24 November, of basic payment accounts, transfer of payment accounts and comparability of commissions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 3 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 98 plus 2 telematics votes, 100; against, 238 plus 1 telematics vote, 239; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u221	Consequently, it is not dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u222	We shall now vote on a new item on the agenda for the request for extension of subcommittees. We will vote on the request to extend the deadline granted to the Sub-Commission for Electoral Reform, set up within the Constitutional Commission, for the issuance of its report until 30/06/2018. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes cast; 330 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u223	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u224	We shall now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on a new item on the agenda for the six-month extension of the deadline for the completion of the work of the Committee of Inquiry on the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 198 against, 132 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-13-CD171213.u225	It's approved. Ladies and gentlemen, before we adjourn the sitting, I would like to thank you all for your cooperation in this session and wish you and your families happy holidays. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] It was one and forty-five minutes in the afternoon.
