ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[Mr Campuzano i Canadés asks for the floor]] Mr. Campuzano.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u2	On the basis of Article 71.3, I request to intervene in defence of the dignity of the deputies of the Democratic Party, after Mr Homs' expulsion by this House in execution of the Supreme Court judgment. We understand that this expulsion affects our dignity...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. It is not appropriate to give him the floor at this time for the question to which you refer, which, as you know, was already discussed at the plenary session of the House on the occasion of the debate on the granting of the corresponding supplication. Similarly, with regard to the article to which you refer, article 71, which refers to allusions, does not take place. Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. [[Mr. Campuzano i Canadés speaks words that are not perceived]] Mr. Campuzano, thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u4	Minister, we begin with the item on the agenda for the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law... [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party may-in common may-in sea, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, as well as several ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Parliamentary Group leave the Chamber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the item on the agenda for the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 5/2017 of 17 March, amending Royal Decree-Law 6/2012 of 9 March of urgent measures for the protection of unresourced mortgage debtors, and Law 1/2013 of 14 May of measures to strengthen the protection of mortgage debtors, debt restructuring and social rental. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u5	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to appear in this House to request your support for the validation of Royal Decree-Law 5/2017 of 17 March, amending Royal Decree-Law 6/2012 of 9 March of urgent measures for the protection of unresourced mortgage debtors, and Law 1/2013 of 14 May of measures to strengthen the protection of mortgage debtors, debt restructuring and social rental. This is a rule that abounds in measures to protect vulnerable groups from the loss of their habitual housing, which we have taken since we arrived at the Government in 2012. In particular, this Decree-Law has three clear objectives: to extend the validity of this moratorium on particularly vulnerable group launches until 2020; to extend the scope of both the code of good practice and the suspension of launches, and to establish a mechanism for those who have suffered the execution of their mortgage, but whose launch has been suspended, to remain in their homes by means of rent. Before moving on to the specific content of this rule, let me refer briefly to the context and background that have brought us here. When we arrived at the Government, we found a record number of evictions, mainly from mortgages signed between 2005 and 2008. The increase in unemployment and other economic circumstances during the hardest years of the crisis made it impossible for many vulnerable families to face the payment of their mortgage fees, which ultimately resulted in the loss of their housing. This, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the most dramatic faces of the crisis we have just experienced, but the Government has faced it from the very beginning with different measures to protect the most vulnerable groups and families. First, with the Royal Decree-Law of March 2012, in which we launched a code of good practice for vulnerable debtors with problems in dealing with their mortgages, to which virtually all financial institutions adhered. It provides for debt restructuring, write-off or pay-off as a definitive means of debt relief. In addition, in March 2015 we already carried out a first expansion of the beneficiary group of these measures by increasing the annual income limit, raising the purchase price threshold of the buildings concerned and including those over the age of 60 as a population considered vulnerable. At the moment, we also include the possibility that the families who accepted the code would also benefit from the definitive non-application of the ground clauses that might exist in their contracts. Secondly, with the Royal Decree-Law of November 2012, which suspended launches on the habitual housing of particularly vulnerable debtors for two years, a period which we subsequently extended for another two years. And third, with the creation of the Social Housing Fund at the beginning of 2013, which will be in force until January 2019 and which offers social rents, a mission to which the Sareb also contributes part of its real estate park. These measures have so far benefited almost 80,000 families. Of these, more than 24,000 have been suspended from the launch of their housing; more than 39,000 have agreed to viable debt restructuring; about 7,200 have been able to deliver their housing as a payment, and more than 9,000 have agreed to rent at moderate prices from the Social Housing Fund. Despite these important initiatives, however, the persistence of economic hardships faced by many families makes it necessary to continue to take relief measures for the most complex situations. Proof of the relevance of this initiative, and also of the urgent need for the use of a decree-law, is that the current extension of the suspension of launches will expire on 15 May. In addition, in the few months that we have been in the legislature, different groups have presented a dozen parliamentary initiatives between oral and written questions, interpellations and non-legislative proposals, relating to this issue, showing the social relevance that this problem still has. It is also necessary to extend the requirements for access to the code of good practice and the suspension of launches, because it has been found that families with special vulnerability are being left out. [[The ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea return to the Chamber.- Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now detail to you the concrete content of this royal decree-law. First, the suspension period for mortgages on habitual housing is extended for a further three years, i.e. until May 2020. Secondly, the potential group of beneficiaries of both the suspension of launches and the code of good practice is expanded, thus maintaining consistency between the two measures. To define the group of beneficiaries, family income criteria are applied, the burden of the mortgage fee in relation to these income and also specific circumstances of particular vulnerability. [[Rumors]] This rule, in addition to the cases envisaged so far, includes the following particular vulnerabilities. Firstly, the family units of which a minor is a member, and not a minor of three years of age, as had been the case so far. Secondly, single-parent family units with a dependent child, and not at least two, as required so far... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u6	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u7	Thirdly, family units in which a victim of gender-based violence exists, and finally, family units in which a person with a disability, dependency or serious illness who incapacitates him or her for work is living. The latter two criteria were already taken into account to qualify for the suspension of launches, but not to opt for the measures of the Code of Good Practice; they will now apply in both cases. In addition, holders of mortgages who are unemployed may benefit from the suspension of evictions, regardless of whether or not they have exhausted their unemployment benefits by eliminating this requirement. Thirdly, the Royal Decree-Law introduces into the code of good banking practice the possibility that the executed mortgage debtor whose launch was suspended under Law 1/2013 may remain in which his home was rented. This rent shall be made for annual periods up to a maximum of five years, which may be extended by another five years by mutual agreement of the parties and at a price which may not exceed 3 % of the value of the housing at the time of the termination determined by valuation. This implies, for example, that for a house valued at 100,000 euros the rent to be paid would be up to 250 euros per month. In order to benefit from this measure, the debtor must apply for it within a maximum period of six months from the entry into force of this rule or from the moment when the suspension applies to him. The decree also includes a formula for financial institutions to automatically adhere to this new wording of the code, unless they expressly state otherwise. Finally, the Government has also included in the decree-law a provision, obliging itself to submit within a maximum of eight months - i.e. in mid-November as a ceiling - proposals to facilitate the recovery of the ownership of the habitual housing by the mortgage debtors who accept the suspension of the launches. These measures may take account of the application of discounts on the basis of the quantities already met, as well as other factors which guarantee a fair price. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. Today we validate a rule that gives continuity to the measures we have been taking since the beginning of the crisis to improve and deepen the protection of the most vulnerable debtors in our society. These are measures that have always been prudently taken not to disturb the proper functioning of our mortgage market, one of the factors explaining why almost 80% of Spaniards have a home on their own, one of the highest percentages in the European Union. It should also be recalled that doubtful loans to households for the purchase of housing amounted to 6.3% of the total at the worst time, at the beginning of 2014, a figure which has been steadily decreasing since then and which today barely reaches 4.7%. This means that the vast majority of Spaniards scrupulously comply with their mortgage dues, sometimes, as we all know, making great efforts to do so. There is also a need to highlight the significant reduction in mortgage executions and the ongoing launches. According to the National Institute of Statistics, foreclosures of habitual housing started in Spain have already been decreasing at an increasing rate for two years; in 2015 they fell by 13% and in 2016 they are falling by more than 30%. The data of the General Council of the Judiciary also point to a reduction in launches. In any case, the real protection available to families is the recovery of the economy and employment. Maintaining economic growth along with continuing job creation is therefore the best guarantee for citizens to be able to meet their payment obligations. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my appreciation of the contributions made to this decree by the various groups that have allowed us to improve the text substantially and to reach a broad consensus, which shows the spirit of collaboration that exists in dealing with issues of great social impact, such as this. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that this royal decree-law be validated as such, since opening up the possibility of amendments would introduce delays and large doses of uncertainty which ultimately only harm citizens. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I request your support for the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u8	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro spoke in the position-setting session by the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me, first of all, to express the immense pain for a new victim of violence and her two little children. Even animals don't kill their offspring. Something's going on in this country. [[Applauds]] The Decree-Law of 14 May 2013 adopted measures to strengthen the protection of mortgage debtors, debt restructuring and social rental, which maintained the immediate suspension for a period of two years of evictions of families in a situation of special risk of exclusion. Subsequently, the deadline for suspension of launches was extended in 2013 until 15 May 2017. Therefore, at the present time we believe that there are still reasons for the extension of time limits and the measures to be taken. Of course, we support extending the scope of the protection measures for mortgage debtors in a situation of special vulnerability, which will therefore change the scope of the Code of Good Practice as well as that of those persons who may benefit from the suspension of home launches. Of course, it seems appropriate for us to extend the implementation of the suspension of the launch in three years' time. Finally, we are in favour of the establishment of rental mechanisms in favour of the debtors executed on the buildings whose launch is suspended. We believe that it is fair to include families with minor children or where there is a victim of gender-based violence, and the new definition of situations of special vulnerability will make it possible for more families to benefit from the suspension. That is why we are going to support this decree and it seems to us, moreover, to be of particular urgency. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u10	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Urgent measures to strengthen the protection of mortgage debtors, debt restructuring and social rental are both necessary and timely. That is why the validation of the royal decree-law explained by Minister Luis De Guindos is fully justified. The aim is to extend the subjective scope of application along the same lines as the Code of Good Practice, which has already established a three-year moratorium that is now extended until 2020 to prevent the launch of particularly vulnerable individuals and groups. This will enable a greater number of families to benefit from the measures and to preserve their housing, provided that the affected meet the requirements of vulnerability. On behalf of the Forum, I support these new measures by the Government in relation to the mortgage market, which are in addition to others that have been taking place for five years to deal with the dramas that affected many Spanish families following the economic and financial crisis. More than 60 years old, large families, unemployment, dependency, serious illness or disability more than 33 per cent were some of the circumstances that allowed for measures to curb evictions, which are now being extended to families with underage and single-parent children with a dependent child, disability and also, as Mrs Ana Oramas pointed out, to victims of gender-based violence. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest statistics released by the General Council of the Judiciary point to a fall in evictions due to unpaid mortgage fees. The main problem, however, is the loss of housing and hence the second additional provision of this royal decree-law is correct. It grants the Government eight months to propose mechanisms to enable the recovery of property by preventing the possible transfer of credit to a vulture fund, curtailing the right to bribe and retract, and taking into account both the history of the property and the loan and the social situation of the mortgaged person or family. Count on it, Mr. De Guindos, with our support for validation. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u12	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor. [[Pause]] I now give the floor to Mrs Sorlí Fresquet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u13	Thank you, President. Royal Decree 5/2017 amends two royal decrees, one of urgent measures for the protection of debtors and another of measures to strengthen the protection of debtors, debt restructuring and social rental. In short, in these titles we find just what they do not intend to make these royal decrees. This royal decree is defined in its explanatory statement as exceptional and temporary, while proposing totally insufficient measures to protect debtors, and everything to continue allowing evictions to right and wrong. The Royal Decree extends two more in 2012 and 2013. Exceptional and temporary? Really? Since 2012 with the same exception and we continue to say that it is temporary? Is 2020 going to remain temporary? Either you're very clumsy, Mr. De Guindos, or you want us to be fooled, and when it comes to the government, I don't know which of the two options is worse. If all this were not short, come the Socialist Party, make up this decree a little bit and try to hang the medal of social policies. But, of course, all this is understood when you know who ends up on the banks' boards of directors or when you know that the same Minister of Economy has also devoted himself to the banking sector. Then yes, then it's all squared away. Stop using pantomimes, reform the Mortgage Law to stop failing to comply with European judgments; those judgments that matter to them so much when it comes to cutting labour rights; those judgments that neither PP nor PSOE have dared to apply when it comes to planting against the abusive clauses of the banks. And, more importantly, stop violating your sacrosanct Constitution and guarantee the right to housing, despite the fact that even among your friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u14	Thank you very much. The next item is Mrs Ciuro i Buldó. [[Pause]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u15	Good morning, egun on. Go ahead and we will vote in favour of the validation of the Royal Decree-Law for several reasons. Firstly, because the Minister has already been asked about this and, as he said, he is going to solve this problem. Also, because the rule incorporates new cases of special vulnerability, such as those of families with underage children or single parents with dependent children, unemployed without the requirement to have exhausted the benefit, among others, which had already been submitted by amendment by the Basque Parliamentary Group when Bill 1/2013 was processed, but which at that time were not taken into account and which today in this royal decree-law have been incorporated into the norm. Because this group has already, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, promoted a GNP to address the problem of protection of mortgage debtors in particular vulnerability, in which, in addition, accepting the amendments of other groups, it proposed the extension of the moratorium to three years and the introduction of a new presumption of family circumstances of special vulnerability, which has also been included in the actual decree-law. But, although the existing problem has been addressed, I would like to do a nuance, at least to improve the solutions to be applied in the future. It is not the first time that Royal Decree-Law 6/2013 and Law 1/2013 have been amended, and therefore to resort to an instrument such as the Royal Decree-Law, justifying it in that the deadline for the moratorium on evictions until now in force ended precisely on 15 May, rather than serving as a justification for the urgency to issue this rule should serve the contrary. In other words, it was already known when such a deadline would end, so that the Government of the State could have submitted a bill knowing the time required for its processing. To act, on the contrary, by shielding itself in peremptory time to make use of the royal decree-law would amount to the fact that in all those rules which set specific time periods to be fulfilled could be resorted to that instrument and, nothing more wrong, since in such cases the certain provision that the time period is to be fulfilled and when it is to be fulfilled makes it easier for the reform rule to be brought into line with the time required for its parliamentary processing as ordinary law. Having said that, we also understand that we cannot settle for specific extensions because they have led many families to the loss of employment and, after that, to the loss of their habitual housing because of the impossibility of dealing with the monthly payments of their mortgage, which means marginalization and social exclusion. Thus, we believe that a thorough reform that is brought up to date with European legislation and is appropriate to social needs and their possibilities, in addition to measures necessary to generate wealth and employment should be addressed. For this reason, we believe that this matter should be addressed in a future law, even to extend the measures provided for in this royal decree, for example, to mortgage guarantors regarding their habitual housing under the same conditions established for the mortgage debtor. Finally, I would also like to add that we would have liked the code of good practice to be binding on credit institutions granting loans or mortgages. But, despite all these nuances, as I said at the beginning, our group will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u16	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor. [[Pause]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rivera de la Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u17	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's imagine that the person I'm going to tell you about is named Manuel, although that's not his real name. I've known him for 15 years. He's a good man, very hardworking, very prudent, he has two children. Manuel got into a business that failed. It was probably risky for him to invest everything he had saved in a sector he didn't know, with partners he didn't know, but it's also not a crime to risk life, to try to prosper. Nor is it a crime to be wrong or to have the bad luck of happening to you in the midst of an economic crisis like the one we suffer. The case is that Manuel, who is not Manuel, a hardworking man, a serious man, of those who pay the bills on time, who do not want to leave anything to duty, a man who had never lived beyond his possibilities, lost everything, and came the day when he could not pay the mortgage of the apartment in which he lived with his family. Then came the eviction. I assure you that Manuel never thought he could lose his house... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u19	...and that one day he was going to have to ask his parents for help to pay a rent so that his children could live somewhere. By the way, their children were then five years old, two twin children who unfortunately were at home the day the eviction took place. Manuel's story, which exists even though it is not called Manuel, has been repeated many times in recent years. There are thousands of men and women like him, people who were unlucky, who ran out of work, who failed in a business and who one day had to assume that the house they lived in was no longer theirs. A few years ago, at the worst time of the crisis, I bought an apartment. I've invested in it the savings of my whole life. When I went to the bank to negotiate the mortgage, I was taught a brochure with offering housing, and there were real bargains. The man at the branch who was tempting me to keep some of them confirmed to me that they all of course came from embargoes, they were the property of the bank, and they wanted to take them off as they were, even in exchange for a ridiculous amount, under conditions that were advantageous. I remember looking at that brochure as one who looks at a catalogue of coffins, because that brochure they were teaching me to keep some of those houses was a summary of a lot of broken lives. In our country the purchase of a home is the main obsession of all. Sometimes I said it myself: why do we strive to have a house, why do we want the house to be ours, why can't we rent? It's just that it's not that weird to want to have a house. When I was preparing this speech, I remembered a novel I read a long time ago, from V.S. Naipaul, who was called a house for Mr. Biswas. That novel tells the story of a man beaten by life who makes having a home his motive for his hope. This novel is developed in the Antilles, written by a writer from Trinidad, and also speaks of a man who wanted a home. It's not so weird to want a house, it's not a sin to want a house, and we can't blame anyone who wants to have a home of their own. It has to be understood that losing that home is the worst of failures. The tragedy of the embargo goes far beyond losing an entrance where perhaps the capital of an entire family, the shares of a mortgage paid on time, are lost things that have nothing to do with money. Self-esteem, self-confidence and faith in the future are lost. That is why we have a duty to explore all the possibilities that exist to prevent the house in which someone lives from being lost. That house, as was the case with Mr Biswas, becomes the symbol of the prosperity to which we all legitimately aspire. The decree we adopt today involves compliance with paragraph 64 of our investiture agreement with the People's Party, which talked about easing the situation of people and families affected by evictions by extending measures that already existed in a code of good practice. The period of moratorium is increased by three years, the concept of vulnerability of families is broadened and the option of renting the house at a reduced price is envisaged. Thousands of families are going to benefit from a point of the investment agreement, and we have to think that behind these figures there are names, there are faces and there are stories, stories that are going to change for the better as soon as this decree-law comes into force. That shows that things are done here and are done working here. All of this is a principle, but we do not consider it enough. The Government has undertaken to propose within eight months a battery of initiatives aimed at facilitating the recovery of habitual housing that has been the subject of an enforcement procedure. Think of Mr. Biswas, who dreamed of a house, or Manuel, who had it and lost it. However, it would be a hypocrisy to fall into triumphalism. This royal decree could have been passed long before, perhaps in the crudest part of the crisis, when the banks left tens of thousands of families on the street and stayed with a flat that sometimes even complicated their results account, floors that thickened the catalog of a bank converted into real estate for the benefit of speculation. I didn't want to stay with that house from an embargo, but there were others who did. How bad things have been done with the banks and let's not say how bad things have been done with the boxes. That is why Citizens refused to place their advisers in them; however, the Lords of Compromís will place theirs in the Ontinyent Box. [[Applauds]] We don't want politicians in the banks, we don't want politicians in the boxes. It is very strange to think that with five pages in the State Official Gazette, one will put limits on the misfortune of a family, because that is what will happen when this decree-law comes into force. I now remember the phrase of never being late if bliss is good, but I disagree because it is late, it is late for many people and it is time to think about those that we can still help. My group has often claimed that law of the second chance, which would allow thousands of workers to get up after they fall. The decree we are going to pass today is a first step, but we have to continue on the road. This agreement is the result of a political consensus and is an example that when there is will, parties can help improve people's lives. I hope that this consensus can soon be reflected in other major reforms that Spain needs. Ladies and gentlemen, do not comply because there are many steps to be taken and we have to take them together. For that, and just for that, we're here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u20	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mayoral Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a strange feeling when I come up to this rostrum. Firstly, I want to say that my group is going to allow this moratorium to be validated. How can we not allow a moratorium to be validated that only means a truce in the exercise of violence against certain vulnerable sectors of our country! Of course we will, of course we will! But, ladies and gentlemen, in this very House we discussed a motion and two thirds of the Members said they were willing to comply with General Comment 7, which prohibits forced evictions without a housing alternative and this royal decree does not comply with it; this royal decree continues to raise the possibility of exercising violence against vulnerable sections of our population. Minister, what measures are you going to take to repair the damage caused to children over three years of age, to whom the guards have been sent to remove them from their homes? What are the repair measures going to be? [[Applauds]] Here the evictions have not been stopped - let us not be mistaken - nor have moratoriums been made. Moratoriums have been achieved through human rights defenders who have played the role of type, integrity and freedom to prevent gross violations of human rights, which has been forced evictions without housing alternatives in our country. We must pay tribute to them. [[Applauds]] I'm embarrassed. I am ashamed, Minister, because we asked for it in the Commission, we asked Mr Moragas and the House unanimously asked him to do so. You, and the previous government, refused to comply with European law. We have repeated judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union saying that mortgage enforcement procedures are illegal. I ask you again in front of this House: is there or is there not a sanctioning procedure against our country for violating European law? Answer us, because it is the general interest, because we have a right to know. [[Applauds]] Such foreclosure proceedings are illegal, because when the right to effective judicial protection is violated, and when the right to defence is violated, the most basic principles of a fair trial are violated. Faced with this, the State has obligations, international obligations that say that systematic human rights violations are addressed with truth, justice and reparation. I know the Citizens' Lords don't find it on Google. Look on the United Nations page to see if they can find him. It's there. Find it, it's very easy. [[Rumors.-Mr.Cantó García del Moral: Very good!]] In any case, I have brought you to illustrate the Amnesty International report and the reports of the United Nations rapporteurs, if you do not find them. Last week, again in a hypocrisy exercise, we heard them say that it was necessary to exercise violence against 85,000 households that have a precarious possession in our country as a result of illegal mortgage executions. You all disputed who was the one who most defended the antisocial use of property and the exercise of violence against the vulnerable population. The gentlemen of PDECAT today are not - we have gone out, we are democrats and we are going to defend political rights - but last week we saw them in the photo of Pedralbes, Neguri and La Moraleja voting together and saying that we must not end poverty, but we must end the poor. [[Applauds]] And we will tell you very clearly that we are going to be with Vallecas, with Barakaldo and with Nou Barris raising a human barrier against those who want to attack the popular sectors of our country. [[Applauds]] I suppose you will be happy and satisfied with what you have done so far in protecting the vulnerable population. Last week, he did not give any credence because, after PDECAT wanted the public administration to do the dirty work to the banks, the same ones who share a parliamentary group in Europe, and who also pleaded with Mrs Merkel, the stakes went up here and said that it was not enough, that penalties had to be applied against the people who desperately had to make use of abandoned housing without the consent of the owner and said that it had to be extended. Tell your boss, Mr. Oliu, that this is a violation of human rights and that we are going to be facing it. [[Applauds]] You, who so much like to talk about the Penal Code when you talk about poverty to apply it against the poor, I will read you an article in that Penal Code that if it were applied in this country, if there was no justice for the rich and one for the poor, those 3.5 million empty dwellings would probably be in the hands of the population. Article 281 says: '1. Any person who detracts from the market raw materials or essential products with the intention of depleting a sector of the sector, forcing price changes or seriously harming consumers shall be punished by imprisonment for one to five years and a fine of 12 to 24 months. Two. The higher penalty shall be imposed if the act is carried out in situations of grave need or catastrophic'. If this had been applied, I can assure you that we would not be in the same situation, because the lords of the boards of directors of the banks would have to answer for hoarding houses, the lords of the vulture funds would have to answer for hoarding houses, and we would not find ourselves in the housing emergency situation in which we find ourselves. Here we must choose between the dispossessed and the dispossessed, and the political forces of this House, in an exercise of cynicism and hypocrisy, we saw last week what message they address to the popular sectors of our country and we call for alert, alert for what is being done here, because there are political forces that are conspiring against the people and the popular organization is necessary to withstand the invitation of those who represent the interests of the economic powers and of the privileged, the interests of the speculators. [[Applauds]] But our people have taught us something very important these years, that when people get together, that when people move down, the people from above tumble because 'Yes you can!'. [[applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, standing.-Rumores.-A Member of Parliament: Anda Rafa, who is not in university!-Mr. Iglesias Turrion: He is provoking you, Your Honor.-Mr.Perales Mayor: After what the liberal Garicano does...-The rumors continue.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u22	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet. Silence, ladies and gentlemen, that I hear you all, I hear everything that comes to my ear, and so far it comes quite, I can assure you. Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romingera Salazar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the question is, and then what? Because this decree-law offers a commitment not to speed up evictions for a while, but the fundamental thing is to establish the appropriate regulatory framework in coordination with the different administrations and to ensure the effectiveness of the right to housing in a permanent way, because so far, the Government, rather than coordinating and promoting the actions of the different administrations with competence in the field of housing, has dedicated itself to obstructing their action without having passed laws in this House that develop the minimum content of the right to housing, that offer guarantees and allow for the challenge of violations of this right before the courts. The result is that people in danger of being evicted are largely unprotected and that is why we cannot settle for postponing the problem. A permanent solution must be sought, because we are facing a real social tragedy whose consequences have been worsening throughout the crisis. I would like to point out that, thanks to the social mobilization and support platforms for people affected by mortgages, which have made it possible not to silence the drama of many families, this issue is a priority for all groups in this House today. Some of those platforms are joining us today. The reality is that, since the adoption of Law 1/2013, every year the number of mortgage executions has continued. Every execution, every launch has been a real drama, and there have been many executions, many launches, many suicides and many affected minors, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, welcome is any solution that we can give to these situations, but we cannot make it obvious that this is a patch for these families at risk of eviction. We cannot escape that the situation requires more than temporary solutions. However, we are aware of the suffering of families, such as that of Joseph - this one is called Joseph - an unemployed Barcelonaer who has two children and who only has the only income of 500 euros that from time to time brings his wife because he works temporarily. Joseph and his family had set the date of eviction on 17 May. For situations like these, we proposed months ago in this House, Minister, the extension of the mortgage moratorium provided for in Law 1/2013 of 14 May, subsequently amended by decrees, and this extension will expire on 15 May. It is therefore necessary to take measures to guarantee families, such as Joseph's, that they will not be evicted from their homes, and it is necessary precisely because we do not yet have a law to prevent, once and for all, this suffering, this drama of evictions. You yourself, Mr De Guindos, said this in the debate on Bill 1/2013 before this House: We want the best possible law because the dramatic situation that many families are going through deserves the greatest effort on the part of all. But in view of the fact that the law has not been the best possible, and that is why this decree-law which is submitted to validation today contains improvements compared to the previous one, which already modified it, and improvements which have mostly been proposed by my group and which are the result of citizens' demands. I can assure the Compromises gentlemen that this is not about any makeup. The beneficiaries of these measures should not be mocked. On the one hand, we believe that the so-called exclusion thresholds envisaged by the law are extremely exclusive and leave many families out of the possibility of benefiting from the moratorium. For this reason, the Socialist Party has proposed that the group of persons below the exclusion threshold should be extended to all families with underage children, regardless of the age of these children; to unemployed debtors; to families with a victim of gender-based violence; to single-parent families with children; and to families living with disabled persons. I insist that these are measures proposed by the Socialist Party. With this, what we do is to invest in the benefit of the people the situation that created this law because, although it is called 'the protection of debtors', strictly what it did was to make the situation worse with very strict assumptions. In addition, the Socialist Party rejects that the burden of the crisis should fall on those who have no responsibility for it. It is the banks that are ultimately responsible for the crisis; they have provoked it and must assume it, they must share the ravages caused with their first victims, who are the workers who bought at swollen prices and who, as a result, were over-indebted. Just as the banks granted generous withdrawals to the promoters, we now demand that the right of re-acquisition of housing to be established by the Government in favour of those executed be realized on the current market prices, not on those prices inflated by the bubble. In addition, the experience of these years of suspension of launches is that the banks have tried to rent the executed housing or another to the debtor affected by the eviction in the framework of a market without clear guarantees for the debtors. Therefore, in order to ensure equitable treatment of these persons, we propose, among other measures, as a ceiling to the rental fee, 3% of the value of the housing at the time of approval of the sale and with assessment provided by the debtor beneficiary of the measure in accordance with market regulation. We also estimate, and we have proposed, that a minimum limit for the duration of the five-year lease should be set for the benefit of the debtor. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the need to suspend launches and to ensure that more families are able to benefit from this suspension is not what leads us today to announce our vote in favour of the validation of the decree that the Government brings us today, but we are aware, and that same awareness is that we also call on the Government, that time cannot be the determining factor for these families to be protected or not from evictions. That is why we insist that this new three-year extension, which has also been proposed by the Socialist Party - the government in principle only intended to extend for two years - must serve us in order to be able to reach an agreement between all the groups and to provide the country with a law that will ensure the stable protection of those who, in good faith and for the reason that they are unable to face up to the payment of their housing. Housing is not quality, housing is a fundamental right and, above all, it is a question of social justice and dignity. Since neither dignity nor social justice can be subject to an expiry date, we must all work together during the duration of this extension to guarantee them definitively through a law that permanently protects families such as Joseph or Manuel. We'll vote for it, but let's get out of the way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u24	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Floriano Corrales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I take the floor to set the position of our group. Dismissing, ladies and gentlemen, the verb "huciar", giving confidence or hope, which together with the prefix 'des' means exactly the opposite, taking hope away, taking hope away from someone, because that is so: throwing a person out of his house, because he has no money to pay his mortgage for circumstances that have arisen, is possibly the most dramatic face of the economic crisis and the worst thing a family can go through. The eviction, despoiling, which takes away the hope of thousands of people, of thousands of men and women, of boys and girls; of boys and girls as well. We couldn't stand it, ladies and gentlemen. That is why the People's Party government in its first hundred days of government, in the worst moments of the crisis, at the beginning of 2012, when we were playing, even losing part of our sovereignty, we began to make decisions to prevent people, people, from getting them out of their homes. Today, Mr Mayoral, and I take this opportunity to express my consideration to you cordially, after listening to you say from this rostrum that we exercise violence - those who do not agree with you - that we violate human rights, that we do a cynical exercise, that we do not comply with all the regulations, that we do not comply with all the basic principles and that we conspire against the people, Mr Mayoral, with all cordiality and with all respect, I ask you: and your policy to prevent evictions, what is it?, housing for all? When I hear them talking about immigration and saying: down the borders, let everyone come, of course, with free health and education and, moreover, with a living income for everyone, I wonder: if here can everyone come, have free health and education, a living income and, moreover, we give them a home, who pays that, Mr Mayoral? Who pays for it? [[A Member of the European Parliament: Bravo!]] Believe me, I am cordially telling you this, but these kinds of arguments and interventions, such as those you have here, may look very good in other forums, but someone may think, Mr. Mayor, someone may think, that done from this rostrum is an exercise of demagogy that does not solve people's problems. And that's why we're here, to solve people's problems. [[Applauds]] The royal decree-law goes precisely in that direction. The Royal Decree-Law is precisely about solving people's problems; that thousands of families who are in a very difficult situation can find a way to solve them. I would like to say from this rostrum that almost 34,000 people have been able to restructure their debt; that almost 7,000 have taken up payment and that 24,000 evictions have been suspended, thanks to the measures adopted by the Government and validated by this Parliament. It is true that things have changed, that today's economic situation is not the same as it was in 2012, that things are getting better. What's left for us to do? We can agree, but things are much better. People are getting their jobs back, little by little, but they're getting jobs back. Levels of occupation are increasing. We are reducing our macroeconomic problems. We've managed to control our deficit. We think things are going better, but, with that and all, we could not remain impassive that there might still be people who continue to go through a difficult situation and can be caught up in having to leave their homes. That is why this decree has been adopted, which does so by increasing the number of collectives that can accommodate the same; that what it does, moreover, is to extend until 2020 the validity of the suspension of the mortgage executions. Look at 2020, ladies and gentlemen. I wish we didn't have to revalidate a royal decree like this because the problem would have been solved. I hope we do not have to revalidate a decree because by 2020, when this decree expires, the unemployment - 20 million people working if we continue with the economic policy that is developing - is no longer a problem like it is today and that the evictions, at least in its most dramatic part, have disappeared from our scene. I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is to be appreciated that this royal decree establishes mechanisms in favour of debtors so that they can stay in their homes with an income or limit price, as the Minister pointed out. For me the most novel element is that the house can be restored by those who have at some point lost it. Ladies and gentlemen, with this rule we are useful to our compatriots, we are useful to the Spaniards, to the citizens, we are useful to solve problems of individuals and families, especially of the most vulnerable families. I believe that decisions such as those taken by this House today, such as those taken by the Government since 2012, are decisions in favour of people, in favour of women and men, in favour of our compatriots, so it is worth approaching these problems with moderation and trying to solve them in order to improve the lives of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] REPORT OF THE PEOPLE'S DEFENSE CORRESPONDING TO THE MANAGEMENT DURING THE YEAR 2016: - REPORT OF THE PEOPLE'S DEFENSE CORRESPONDING TO THE MANAGEMENT DURING THE YEAR 2016. [[File number 260/000001]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u26	We continue with the agenda item on the Ombudsman's report on the management carried out during 2016. As your ladies and gentlemen know, in accordance with the rules of procedure, the deliberations will begin once the Ombudsman has completed the presentation of her report. For the presentation of a summary of the report, I give the floor to Mrs. defensadora del Pueblo, Mrs. Soledad Becerril Bustamante, whom we welcome, as well as to all the members of that house who accompany us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your presence. On behalf of the institution of the Ombudsman, and as an Ombudsman, I appear before your ladies and gentlemen to inform them of all the activities carried out during 2016. A week ago, we had the opportunity to report in this very house, in the Joint Committee on Relations with the Ombudsman, on the report in very detailed form, so now that the representatives of the groups in the Commission are fully aware of the document, I am going to make a summary so as not to prolong my appearance too much. I must admit, and I would like to do so, of course, that the Joint Committee on Relations with the Ombudsman itself has played an important role in our work throughout this exercise because it has often urged us to take certain actions, to study certain issues, to deepen our problems and to encourage us to increase the number of ex officio actions. It has also drawn our attention to certain issues and underlined the importance of others. In short, it has urged us to be more effective, faster and more effective. I would like to thank the honourable Members, the Members and Senators for their attitude in the Commission, their work and the results they have encouraged and urged us to do. Our aim throughout 2016 has been, first of all, to maintain the solvency, respect and 'authority', in quotes, the autoritas - as the treaties related to the institution say - that must have this institution that completes democracy and the social and legal state. Our aim has been to reach as many people as possible, to a greater number than in previous years, so that this institution is better known, that citizens are more connected with it, so that different social groups can come not only to make a complaint, but also to express information, a deficiency or something that a group, a collective aspires to. Our aim has also been to increase our effectiveness, all under the principle of defending fundamental rights, the rights and freedoms of the Spanish Constitution and human rights, since we are High Commissioner for the Defence of Human Rights. For us it has been a year of demand because we have constantly tried to show how much we did, how we did it and how long we did it; and we have managed - I think we can be moderately happy, because satisfaction can never be full, there are always many things - that 82% of our recommendations to the different administrations have been accepted. We came from 75 or 76% in previous years and this year we have achieved 82%. There are still margins, but it's an interesting step. As I said, because of the pressure and the encouragement of your ladies and gentlemen, we have managed to increase ex officio proceedings and to study and make recommendations after carrying out these studies in a much higher number than in previous years. We have increased the proceedings by 66% and reached the figure of 872 ex officio proceedings. In order to reach a greater number of people as well as a greater number of different cases, we have introduced questionnaires to receive the opinion of the citizens, not only the complaints, but also we want to know the opinion in a direct and very personalized way. Therefore, we have done questionnaires on architectural barriers in the environment, in the municipalities; questionnaires to people affected by celiac problems; on problems - if any - at the beginning of the 2016-2017 school year; or problems of people who are debtors of credits, mortgages in many cases, and find that these credits have been transferred to other entities without their knowledge. We have produced two important documents discussed at length in the Commission, one on asylum and the other on victims of ETA and human rights. In the first, concerning asylum, what have been the conclusions? Your ladies and gentlemen know them well: to provide asylum offices with more staff, to give them more resources, to resolve their situations more quickly, given that in 2016 there were 15,570 asylum applications, 7.2% more than in the previous year. According to the data we have, in 67% of cases applications have been positively estimated. At the moment, among asylum seekers the majority group is from Venezuela, the next is the Syrian group - we already know the reasons why they want to flee a country that is in very dramatic circumstances - and the third group comes from Ukraine. In the second report, which was also discussed and widely disseminated, concerning victims of ETA and human rights, the first thing we have studied is how ETA victims are affected in their fundamental rights, in the main of all the human rights of the convention, such as the right to life. What help do you receive? What inequality can there be in these aids? Why are the causes of the attacks still scattered in different archives, making it difficult on many occasions to know who were the perpetrators of more than 300 unclarified attacks? The last chapter, also interesting, is how we keep the memory and how young people and adolescents through the textbooks keep the memory of decades of terrorist acts committed by the band ETA. The third report concerns the national mechanism for the prevention of torture. - We have that condition because it was decided by this House, at the request of the United Nations. - We are a mechanism that prevents ill-treatment, degrading or humiliating treatment in detention centres, so we have made 101 visits to these centres. The Commission is well aware of this matter and is very interested in all this, including the detention centres for foreigners, who are concerned and occupy women and gentlemen, Members of Parliament and Senators. We have talked a lot about this and we have put forward the opinion that we have on these detention centres for foreigners that exist in Europe, that we have visited and that we can compare with those in other countries and that, as I have personally communicated to the Minister of the Interior, they must be improved and changed in some of the important aspects that these centres share. Also, as a mechanism for the prevention of ill-treatment, we have accompanied on repatriation flights foreigners returning, in accordance with international conventions, to their countries: Colombia, Peru - the last several days ago - and on return on those flights, carried out in cooperation with Frontex, Spaniards who were indigent in Peru have returned to meet with their families in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, the use of new technologies has allowed us over a little over a year, but mainly in 2016, a very important change in activity, in handling and in the resolution of matters. We have halved the times of action - they are shown on the website -, ours and those of the public administrations, of all, and we highlight those administrations that take a long time or that do not answer, because by law they are obliged to do so, because behind that question we put there is a person who has the right to information. We have tried to give maximum transparency, showing not only the budget but also the journeys that are made, their cost and the reason for them. All the documentation we handle is on the website available to any citizen. Our budget has been over the course of 2016 of 14,180,900 euros, 180,000 euros more than in the previous year, due to investments in these new technologies that have greatly improved the activity and resolution of the actions of the Defender. We have used all available channels to reach as many people as possible: the most traditional channels - face-to-face, written letter, manuscript, telephone call -, but also these new technologies, so that you can submit the complaint as well as receive the information via the website, in which you tell the person who is interested what happens with your complaint, where it is and what has been the answer. In the end approximately 554,000 people have been able to be cared for throughout 2016 by the institution. Collaboration with organizations, foundations and public administrations is very close. Yesterday we concluded a day that the deputy, Fernando Marugán - who accompanies us -, directed and moderated on how you will treat - have already processed the royal decree, has passed through this House and now the government has to develop the regulation - within the field of energy, electricity, the social bonus. Yesterday a day was held with administrations, consumers, municipalities and electricity companies. On other occasions we have done so on inclusive education, on other occasions on refugees - in this case with Acnur - and this allows us to make conclusions and then to address the administrations. - It was very important the meeting, the day with Acnur because for us the circumstances of the refugees, as the people of the Commission know, occupy us and always worry us. We have followed very closely the arrival of refugees in Spain: at the moment there are 877 those relocated from Italy and Greece, but the Spanish commitment, which we must not forget, is to relocate 8,445 people, that is, we still lack enough to fulfil our European Union commitments. We have sought to open permanent channels of relationship with foundations and non-profit organizations, such as the Red Cross, Unicef, Caritas, Save the Children, ANAR, which deals with minors who suffer bullying or other circumstances, the foundation to fight the ALS and foundations that deal with people with Down syndrome. We have opened all those channels and channels to cooperate and lend a hand for the purposes of these people. The members of the Commission are fully aware of the complaints we have received. This year's complaints have been 16,500. There are many people who complain about delays in the administration of justice. - This is coming from a few years ago. There are also a high number of complaints about failing to comply with the code of good practice of banking institutions, insufficient transparency of banking institutions towards consumers, delays in granting visas and residence permits, problems of unemployment - there are people, Members of the Commission who have insisted a lot on this matter, who are concerned - pensions, aid to persons with disabilities or disabilities, delays in granting scholarships - families and students themselves want to know when they will receive the full grant and the amounts - and the right to vote, first of people living abroad and who have difficulties when they arrive at an election - the House will be able to study these circumstances - and a different but very important issue is the right to vote for people who have some disability, or mental disability. This should also be reviewed, because it is the fundamental right of all citizens. The visits to the prisons have been explained on several occasions in the Commission and we will soon do so again with the good practices observed and with the deficits also observed in our visits, in which I myself participate. The issues relating to the complaints and problems we have diagnosed with macho violence have also been discussed and, unfortunately, we will have to come back to them at forthcoming meetings of the Commission. On many occasions we have acted more in the so-called ex officio proceedings - it is a redundancy, but it is the denomination - and they have reached 872, which, compared to the previous year, account for 66 % more of ex officio proceedings related to the ground clauses, with the non-transparency or lack of transparency in banking entities, with the vote - as I mentioned - of people residing abroad or air pollution. We have approached a high number of municipalities to learn about their plans and projects to reduce or reduce pollution. We have received collaboration from virtually all the municipalities, and it seems to us that it is a service of interest for the citizens to try to reduce pollution and follow the municipal plans closely. I will conclude by listening carefully to you after my speech. I would like to reiterate my thanks to the Commission and to all your ladies and gentlemen for being here. He said a senator - who in previous legislatures was a deputy and who had kind words towards the report -: it is also a report that is read well, that is understood. I replied to that: it must be understood not only because of the good use of the language, but because it is a report made so that all the citizens who want it, as many as possible, can understand it, that anyone can be welcomed, that reading can inspire him or her any action and therefore it has to be a report made for a large sector or as many citizens as possible. Well, he said it wasn't a novel. Obviously, it is not Eduardo Mendoza or Jorge Edwars writing, but it is that our role is different, it is that citizens understand us and can see in the institution of the Ombudsman an institution that defends their rights and freedoms. Thank you, Madam President, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u28	Thank you very much, the human rights defender. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Madam People's Advocate, although in 2016 the number of deaths from gender-based violence has been the lowest in the last ten years, this year's terrible data - twenty women murdered on March 8, two every week, and yesterday another woman with her two little girls - make us think that this reduction in murders has been just a mirage. In addition, 2016 has been a terrifying year in terms of public and private violations of our rights, with an average of 390 complaints of gender-based violence and 134,400 all year round. That is why I am going to focus my speech on this matter. Repeated abuse and rape, the use of drugs to subject and rape young women, disappearances, killings, continued violence against women in all its forms are painful symptoms of a disease that we have not eradicated. We would like to recall that there is a Canarian law for the prevention and eradication of violence against women in the previous year and much more advanced than the state law. We argue that all actors involved in the fight for the eradication of gender-based violence, justice, health, professional colleges, civil society, the State Security Forces and Bodies and the various public administrations involved must be integrated and brought together. We must also work together on something fundamental: the prevention and limitation of the granting of shared custody in these cases of violence. Many of the women of my generation, who saw democracy come with illusion and worked to make it a reality, believed that the achievements achieved would be enough, that equality would be real in a few years. We have educated our children free and independent, we have wanted them to be sure of themselves, we have proposed that our children learn values such as equality, respect, solidarity, that never justify anyone who harasses, abuses or disrespects in public or private. But that has not been enough. Every day, we women, who have voices and forums where we can express ourselves, like you and I, have an inescapable obligation to report that it is not enough, that there is a lack of laws, financial resources, protection of victims and their children, training and awareness of judges and officials and expansion of gender-based violence. There is a lack of education in egalitarian values, working to ensure that that dream of equality that one day we had is ever closer to reality and there is no more violence against women in any of its forms. It is a matter of justice and we must all work in this country, in this Chamber, in our society and, above all, with our young people so that it does not happen again. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u30	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to focus my speech on some parts of the report that refer to my community of origin, beginning by noting that Asturias continues without falling the great hecatombe that the supporters of the autonomic figure homologable to the Ombudsman, suppressed in 2014. In fact, I note that despite the disappearance of the Attorney General's Office, far from complaining more, the Asturians have again complained less to the Ombudsman, passing the complaints from 356 to 318 in 2016. Four Asturian municipalities are part of the list of the administrations that obstruct the activities carried out by this institution. There is no excuse for this lack of cooperation, and I would like to stress that. They persist in the annual report calls for attention which are, unfortunately, already classic. The UTE of the Villabona prison is scandalous: a case omitted from the continuing recommendations of the Ombudsman, whose implementation is repeated one more year to the point of pointing out that it is not possible to accept his recommendation to give rise to dysfunctions; a case omitted also to agreements made at parliamentary and municipal offices; a case omitted from complaints from NGOs and associations. No one, absolutely no one, has managed to make any dent in the attitude of the leadership of the Asturian prison, which has thrown down the innovative social reintegration program that many of us were proud of. The incorrigible drift of Villabona is desperate. Another classic: the Council of Services and Social Rights of the Principality of Asturias, of which this year 2016 we have known that it has not included in its plan of inspections to the residence of Pumarín elders in Gijón. Totally, for what, it's just 461 squares of nothing. Another pifia of this council, of which we have already discussed last year, has been related to the settlement of debts claimed from heirs of the deceased users of the public residential services of the autonomous body. Allow me to point out to the Ombudsman that suspending is not a solution, and that given the disastrous precedents of this advice would not be surprising a delaying process to integrate the EUR 6 million wrongly collected. Finally, I would like to call on the Ombudsman to follow up on irregularities in relation to the Official College of Nursing Diplomats in Asturias, which are a monumental mockery of democracy, justice and the thousands of Asturian collegiate professionals. Finally, Madam President, with your permission, on behalf of the Forum, I would like to transfer to Mrs Soledad Becerril the respect for her person and the recognition for a brilliant path of public service which had its beginnings, precisely here, in the Congress of Deputies in the mythical Constituent Legislature and which, for five years, has been in charge of the institution of the Ombudsman. I also greet all your team and all the staff of this High Commissioner of the General Courts, whose work at the service of the Spaniards is worthy of the best praise because they face tasks, issues and issues of great complexity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u32	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam People's Advocate, I had decided not to intervene on this point to comment on your report, but last night I decided to intervene when I saw some of the news that occurred yesterday. Therefore, this is - with all due respect - a plea and a commission for you. I haven't had a sign here in a while, but I think this sign is the most justified one today: Pardon for Cassandra. [[It shows it.]] [[Applauds]] Mrs Becerril, you mentioned human rights in your report. Well, one of the fundamental human rights is precisely the right to freedom of expression; that is why I ask you to make arrangements with the Government so that this very Friday, without further ado, the Council of Ministers will pardon Cassandra for things that seem to me to be purely logical. In 1984, when he had attacked practically every week, Tip i Coll made a joke; thirty-three years ago. Where have we gone? Where is freedom of expression? The Aida series also made a joke and nothing happened. On the other hand, in this country a civil guard has been pardoned who recorded sexual assaults on a woman and did nothing; a Kamikaze driver has been pardoned; the commander and the medical captain of the Yak accident have been pardoned; number two of the Santander Bank has been pardoned. If within the figure of the pardon there is any reason to pardon Cassandra I think it is perfectly fulfilled. Cassandra posted yesterday a tweet that said: I don't just have a background, I've been stripped of my scholarship rights and destroyed my project of teaching. They ruined my life. Madam People's Advocate, make arrangements. Gentlemen of the People's Group - I finish now - ask Cassandra to be pardoned because it is a demeanor. I end with the words of Luis Carrero Blanco's granddaughter, Lucía Carrero Blanco: I am afraid of a society in which freedom of expression, however unfortunate, can lead to prison sentences. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u34	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi. [[Pause]] We moved on to the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u35	Thank you, Madam President. I will intervene briefly. Firstly, I want to say that this week the order of this House has been altered. There are some Members who are not present on a voluntary basis, but others have been forced to do so. My solidarity with Mr Homs on behalf of my group. I am going to start by saying that in the Commission we have had more than one appearance by the Ombudsman on specific subjects, the last one a week ago, in which she presented the same report that she has presented to the whole House today, so what I am going to say is not going to vary very much from what I said at the time. It is an extensive report, drawn up with annexes on victims of ETA, torture and refugees. The work that has been done has been great and I want to thank the Ombudsman and her team from here, as it is fundamental for everyone. Does that mean that we share all the questions that are reflected or the reflections that are made on the complaints? Most of them do, but there are some issues on which we would like to reflect our opinion. As far as the prison issue is concerned - we have said this in the Commission - we miss an opinion as to whether the Ombudsman considers that the prison policy being pursued by the Government is the correct one or not, whether the situation in which some terminally ill prisoners are found is the correct one or not. Do you think that the Government can be told or cannot be told whether it is doing well with the policy of removing certain prisoners, which implies for their families that they are suffering something that they have no fault for having relatives in prison? It is a reflection that we do every year and that we do it again today. I don't think that's something you can escape from, because the human rights defender can tell the government whether she believes that's being done right or not. On the subject of prison infrastructure, some of the Spanish prisons are not exactly to go out on the best guides and the situation of certain infrastructure in prisons that are already very old should also be taken into account. That goes hand in hand with other places that are not prisons but where people, the famous CIEs, are held, which we have had so much debate; in the Commission at least twice we have already talked about the situation of refugees. This is not a matter that concerns only the Ombudsman; it concerns us all and above all the Government. There are those who are, but above all there are not those who should be, those who the European Union has made the commitment that they should be brought to the Spanish State and have not yet arrived. We must be more belligerent and demand more of the obligation to these people who have unfortunately had to leave their country and who are still scattered. We said that last year, we have entrusted Turkey with a kind of pantry to retain and then distribute refugees, and I do not believe that Turkey is the best country in the world to guarantee human rights or that it has the power to treat refugees as they deserve. The Spanish State must be obliged, in its part, to demand in Europe that once and for all the necessary determinations be taken to ensure that these refugees are distributed among the different European countries, including the Spanish State. It is not because some communities or countries of the Spanish state, such as Euskadi, have not claimed it; they have even prepared their entire infrastructure to do so, but they are not allowed to bring the refugees or ask for it. I think that situation needs to be turned around. In her report, the Ombudsman also talks a lot about the complaints of some citizens about the famous Law on Citizen Security, the Law gags. Fortunately, we have taken the first steps to be able to change it in this House, and I hope so. Here too, I would call for more boldness and courage on the part of the human rights defender when she claims it, because there may be excessive prudence in some matters. A little more zeal is needed in requesting and demanding from the Government when some rights that I believe are not being fulfilled are fundamental. The subject of torture is basic and we all agree on it. From here I said that we must be belligerent in the demand to the relevant authorities, because there must not even be suspicion of the existence of torture and there must be no impediment to the investigation of torture. There are situations in which the relay always jumps that we are against torture, but when it is necessary to investigate if there is torture, they start to get hit. It is not because the European Union, the European Court of Human Rights and other institutions have not warned the Spanish State or even fined it. Some should blush more than once because the issue of torture has not been properly investigated. What's the fear? The human rights defender said that there was no torture because there should not have been - there could not have been - and she added that precisely the human rights defendership was the mechanism that the United Nations had determined to prevent torture. I think that's a big deal. What's the matter, if there wasn't a defense department, could there be torture? Would we suspect that it exists? Does there have to be a vigilante unit because, if not, there may be a possibility that it exists? No, there must be no torture in any of the cases. It is therefore a human commitment, regardless of the monitoring work carried out by the Office of the Ombudsman. We can't even suspect their existence, but, of course, if they stick to investigate whether or not they exist, it's that something serious is happening. That has happened here and can't be ignored. On the subject of gender-based violence, we asked the minister yesterday - in some way as a result of a warning that the Ombudsman herself had made - about the registration of calls to 016. We ask the minister to meet now and to take appropriate steps to ensure that calls to 016 are not recorded on mobile phones for all the serious consequences this may have. We all know that the vulnerability of women who suffer gender-based violence is total. Moreover, violence is not only physical, there is a violence of control, psychological, coercive, the aggressor checks mobile, etc., and that already has very serious consequences, as we all know. Therefore, the necessary measures, whether technological, political or economic, must be taken so that this does not happen again. I think we should thank the defender for the warning she gave and we, as a parliamentary group, have taken it. And if there are no results, we will again present an initiative in this House so that this will be resolved once and for all. Today we are coming to a kind of violence and coercion from very young ages very worrying, with control of computers, wasaps, emails, chats, etc. I mean, we're in a situation where I think something's not working out right. A partner once said so, and I think she was right. One issue which I am very concerned about and which is also reflected in the report, but not in the way it should, is the issue of the linguistic rights of citizens, especially in Basque, where Basque citizens have limited linguistic rights in our relationship with the General Administration of the State; we cannot address ourselves in our language because the General Administration of the State does not respond in our language. It happens not only on websites, but also in the direct relationship - in the police, in Renfe, in AENA, etc. - and that is something that must be solved because it is a violation of linguistic rights. Finally, on the subject of the victims of ETA, it is a complete report, it is very good, but I suggested - and I finish with this - something that seems important to me, and it is that we could not make a report on the victims of ETA and not have the Secretariat-General for Peace and Co-existence of the Basque Government, which I believe has done an enormous job of reconciliation, of work, of truly recognizing the victims and their situation. Not counting on it when making this report is something that should be taken into account. I hope that it will not happen again because there is not a single vision, there are many visions about the victims and those who suffer are the victims. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u36	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor. [[Pause]] Mrs. Surra Spadea. [[Pause]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. I wanted to begin by thanking the Ombudsman and her entire team for coming to this House this morning and welcoming them to their home. I would like to point out that the study presented and prepared by your institution shows a great deal of work, a great effort and an admirable will to point out, to detect and, finally, to contribute to improving the shortcomings that occur in our rule of law. We need to highlight very positively the promptness in the preparation of the report, as well as the appearance before the Commission and this plenary. I would also like to thank you here today for having sent your team this week the answers to the questions I asked you last week in the Commission and that they could not be answered. He has done so in less than a week and I wanted to thank him and congratulate him on it. I would also like to congratulate him on his half-time response to the citizens. It has gone from replying in sixty-two days in 2013 to twenty-seven that is currently taking time. Just as we say that when justice is slow it is not justice, when the Ombudsman responds twice as quickly as he did it is twice as useful and exemplary in the exercise of his valuable role. We wanted to focus on three aspects of the extensive report that you have presented to us, because we cannot talk about everyone. First of all, we wanted to talk about justice. We are very concerned that justice is the second most worrying issue for the Spaniards. In particular, 1,694 complaints have been submitted, which are figures similar to those submitted by the General Council of the Judiciary. These complaints are mainly due to the delay in resolving the proceedings, and that delay has only one explanation, which is the lack of both material and human means of our justice. It must be that the different governments of this country, of different colors, did not like to invest in justice because it does not give votes. Let's hope there's no other explanation. They have preferred to have airports without airplanes or motorways without cars rather than invest in justice. For citizens, investing in justice, increasing the judicial plant, increasing the material and human resources, is something fundamental; that is why it is reflected in the investment agreement with the People's Party. Let us hope that these budgets will increase the amount of investment in justice. The second point we want to make is that concerning education. As we have already stated a year ago, it is of the utmost importance that attention be paid to inclusive education and early care, as pointed out in his report, as well as to the issue of creating the status of the artist and the creator to solve the problems that may arise with the collection of pensions. In that sense, Citizens encouraged the creation of that subcommittee that is in progress and that we hope it will bear fruit. I would like to take this morning to ask you again for help on the subject of education. We did it a few days ago in private when colleagues from my group were with you, but from here, from this rostrum, we wanted to ask you again for help in defending the rights of all our children, of all the parents, of all the Spaniards to decide freely the language in which they want to study, without anyone imposing on them in which language they should study. Therefore, Madam Advocate, I beg you, I beg you, to help us in the trophies that have been taking place. As for health, which is the third aspect that I wanted to point out, we must highlight the fundamental idea of your report, which is to continue to insist on the defence of patients and users, on the right of patients to access the clinical history in the time and form stipulated in the law, on informed consent, and something that citizens love is fundamental, something basic, which is the electronic prescription and the single card. We want something as basic as that any Spanish can be served anywhere in Spain and get medication at any pharmacy in Spain. There are many Members who are outside and who can't now go to the corner pharmacy with our prescription, who have also sent us to the health centre of our territory, to take that medicine out. This doesn't make sense. You point this out in your report and from Citizens we will continue to insist on it. We said that it is an extensive and very good report, although we believe that it remains a little short on the transparency aspect - as we said in the Commission - of other administrations, not your own, because corruption is the second problem of the Spaniards, according to the CIS, and transparency is the fundamental element in combating corruption. As we believe that, as the Spanish say, it is important to combat corruption, the transparency section should be more comprehensive in its report. We express the positive effect of the increase in ex officio proceedings, since it has been increased from 2.85 to 5.02, as we requested in the previous appearance, and we believe that it should continue to do so. We appreciate very positively the surveys and consultations that have been carried out on different topics, in which more than 23,000 people have participated and, in some way, we see it essential to make up for the lack of enforceability of the Ombudsman's recommendations and suggestions. Attention is drawn to the fact that, of all the recommendations, there will be more to December 2016 - I know that some have now resolved - without answering, 248, which accepted, 230. In this regard, counsel, I believe that I should report to the prosecutor's office the non-compliance of the administration, as is the obligation of all administrations. I do not think it is necessary to wait for the 776 days that the Town Hall of Arenys de Mar has not answered, the 607 days of the Town Hall of Colmenar de Oreja or the 535 days of the Town Hall of Nerja, because nowadays the communications do not go in due diligence. If there is real will and one wants to answer, as stated in article 502 of the Criminal Code, one can do in much less time. By the way, in this of not answering and not fulfilling their obligations to the Ombudsman there are administrations of all colors; we have them blue, red, and even independenceists, even if they are not now. We believe that this House should consider, as has been done with the reform of the Rules of Procedure for non-legislative proposals, a reform of the Rules of Procedure so that the Government may appear here and say why it does not comply or why it does not accept the recommendations made to it by the Ombudsman's Office. The report is very extensive, it is very well drafted, but its own extension makes it difficult for all citizens and the press, which is essential for their defence work, and that is why we have already asked the Commission to make it equally convenient for the general public to know an executive summary so that it can be easier to understand it from all over the world. He wishes to congratulate you again on the report and on your work on you and your entire team. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u38	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Belarra Urteaga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u39	Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Becerril, I wanted to welcome you and your entire team to this House and use my intervention today to make a sort of assessment of what these years of Ombudsman's Office have been and what your mandate has been, bearing in mind that this is the last report you have presented in this House because your mandate ends in June. I wanted to recall that there is a certain consensus between historians and historians that the figure of the Ombudsman arose in Sweden in 1809, although surely my fellow Aragonese are going to tell me that the true origin is in the Outings of Aragon. This figure is born primarily to protect the interests of citizens from possible abuses by public administrations. One of the key elements of this figure, and perhaps the most important, is its independence; it has to be independent and autonomous. I think it is important that we ask ourselves - I do not know whether Mrs Becerril has asked herself this question - what will the citizens of our country, those who do not have accounts in Switzerland or occupied penthouses of 700 square meters, think that the Ombudsman, who has to monitor the action of the People's Party Public Administration, is in turn a former high-ranking member of that party. It seems to me that it is a question that people on the street will ask. I do not doubt the work that you have been doing, because I know the team of the Ombudsman's Office and it is very professional, but the fact is that the People's Party has already had so many democratic institutions kidnapped that it is impossible for citizens not to think about the likelihood that this institution will also be kidnapped. The people on the street don't trust you and that's why not other institutions, which is something that in democracy should worry us all very much. I wonder how citizens will trust that our interests are well defended if there has been a political police in our country, if prosecutors investigating corruption are dismissed and if the party in government is a genuine mafia plot, as has been demonstrated in recent times. I propose that we use this intervention by the Ombudsman to open a very important debate that has to do with the independence of the Ombudsman's Office. If what we are looking for is that this figure is independent, the citizens of our country no longer need unnecessary guardianship. It could be perfectly argued that the figure of the Ombudsman should be directly elected by the citizens, which is not something that we have proposed, but that different constitutionalists have proposed on numerous occasions. Our people do not need any more tutelage, so I believe it is essential that we open this debate so that the independence of the People's Advocate is never again in question. With regard to content, we are concerned that complaints continue to decrease. I already know that the Ombudsman has stated on numerous occasions that this is due to the fact that in 2014 there were many complaints about the non-return of the extra payment, but it is important that we ask ourselves what this has to do, if there is any more reason, so I believe that a more thorough analysis of the reasons for this constant reduction of the complaints is necessary. One of the fundamental aspects that we are concerned about is the implementation of the law on gags or what have been the laws on both the reform of the Criminal Code and the Criminal Prosecution Act or the law on citizen security. We wonder why your institution did not make an appeal of unconstitutionality, which is what we believe should have occurred taking into account the level of social response, the ardent criticism of the academy and, moreover, the opposition of the whole parliamentary arch, with the exception, of course, of the People's Party. We would like to know why you have requested more information from Government delegations on the implementation of this law and whether there is any problem with the proportionality of these penalties or with the constitutional motivation of these sanctions affecting a fundamental right. As my colleague, Mr Baldoví, has recalled, we are at a time when the law bites and other laws bites, such as the reform of the Penal Code, are seriously challenged when a person like Cassandra is sentenced to one year in prison and, worse still, to seven years of disqualification to exercise what was his greatest desire, which was to be a teacher. It can be said that this young woman has been trumped by her dream of being a teacher, but it is also that a person of low socio-economic level is being condemned on costs for a situation that we believe is tremendously unfair. We do not know whether you are concerned that citizens are being fined in our country for speaking in their native language, such as Catalan, to police officers. As far as migration is concerned, more than missing epigraphs - the truth is that all the epigraphs are related to migration - which we have missed is you, for example, on October 18, when several members of this House were at the door of the CIE and the inmates who were protesting were getting wet and freezing cold. I do not know if you think that human rights are only violated from 8 to 3, but human rights in our country are violated every day at all times. We also miss it the following days, when we personified there and saw the bruises and bruises of so many inmates. We are concerned that up to eight days later you will not make a visit to the alien detention centre, that you will not make a gap in your agenda before, because as you have denounced - not us, but the CIE supervisory judges - normally when these events occur immediately deports the people who have participated in them. As to what it has to do with hot returns, you said last year that we could not tolerate collective and summary returns in our country. I don't know how we call on him to open the door, to throw everyone into Morocco, and to stand in the face of drowning because there are among them some people who have been able to apply for asylum, there may be minors among those people or even injured or sick people who had to be transferred to the hospital. If this is not a collective and summary return, I don't know what we can call a collective and summary return. With regard to deportation flights I encourage you to make visits, but real visits, surprise visits, because when you go to a flight that is prepared the conditions are the best, but we and social organizations have received information of numerous violence against the migrants who are being transferred to the airport. We have a deportation protocol that only prevents the person being killed because everything else is allowed. As far as migrant children are concerned, we are constantly concerned that the police, the State Security Forces and Corps implement protocols that are contrary to sentences and judicial recommendations, which say that the documentation of the countries of origin must be taken into account. I mean, are we worth the documentation from the countries of origin to deport someone, but not to document a minor? It's something that seems incomprehensible to us. With regard to asylum, we cannot share some joy or optimism because we have 15,000 dossiers in stock in the OAR, which are 15,000 people who are seeing their dossier and their lives paralyzed. That is why we demand an in-depth report on how the right of asylum is being guaranteed in Spain, what is happening with those pending asylum applications, what is happening with the offices of Ceuta and Melilla, because no sub-Saharan person has actually been able to apply for asylum in those offices since they were opened, even though others have been able to do so. On the question of torture and ill-treatment, as the comrade of the Basque Nationalist Party has rightly said - today he has not said it, but he said it last year, and I really have been frozen in my seat, and I quote textually -: I say in this house that in Spain there is no torture and there can be no torture in a democratic state. I don't know if your ladies and gentlemen remember Guantanamo and the condemnations the U.S. Senate has made of the tortures that took place there. I do not know if you think that the United States is not a democratic state, but I would remind you that Spain has eight convictions from the European Court of Human Rights for failing to sufficiently investigate allegations of torture, six since we signed the European Convention on Human Rights. This is something we are extremely concerned about, and I believe - and this is what we must defend - that the difference between a democratic State and a non-democratic State is not whether there are tortures, whether they are prevented, whether they are monitored, whether they are punished and whether the perpetrators are persecuted. That is the difference between a democratic State and a State that is not. [[Applauds]] Let us turn Spain - which is what we want - into a state that is truly democratic and investigate in depth the allegations of torture. We certainly find the report's space for male-based violence to be insufficient, only ten out of seven hundred pages. Some 'domestic violence' that, as you know, has already been said by the Istanbul Convention that this kind of terminology must be eliminated. And we are concerned that at a time when the number of killings continues to rise, the Government's budget is constantly falling. Faced with this situation, we believe that it is good enough to have minutes of silence and lavish statements here in the Congress of Deputies; what we need is a real commitment to equality and against all violence. We are also grateful for the concern reflected in your report about trafficking, but we are concerned that the trafficking protection systems in our country are not commensurate with the needs of these victims. We would very much like to see a comprehensive thematic report on the system of protection of victims of trafficking, both for the purpose of sexual exploitation and for the purpose of labour exploitation. Finally, in order to be finished now, I will refer to the prisoners. We are particularly concerned about prison health, you know. We are pleased that you have devoted more attention to this issue in this 2016 report. We are concerned that many prisoners and prisoners continue to serve sentences away from their homes, because this is contradictory for the purpose of supposedly pursuing the prison system, which is social integration. We are concerned about suicides in prison; if there have been up to 23 suicides in 2016, we believe that we need to improve suicide protocols and apply them whenever necessary. We don't read a word about women in prison. Women in prison are few, but they are important, and attention must also be paid to them. And finally, childhood in our country. We still don't have a heading on this subject; there is a specific childhood entanglement, but not a specific heading. Boys and girls have been the group most punished for the economic crisis; many pass cold in their homes, go to class with books that are not adequate or do not even know what it is to go on vacation. We believe that this issue should be an absolute priority within the activities of the Ombudsman's Office. And by the way, we're worried about the practices...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u40	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u41	I'm done, thank you. As I said, we are concerned about the environmental risk practices being implemented by the People's Party. I am talking about Doñana, but also about air quality; I am talking about fracking, about speculating with water; I am talking about the conditions in which we are leaving our biodiversity to the coming generations. I believe that the guarantee of intergenerational rights is also a guarantee of human rights, and our children have the right to receive the world under at least the same conditions as we receive it. As we owe it to them, I also urge you to focus on this issue. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs Galovart Carrera has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u43	Good morning. On behalf of my group, I congratulate and thank the Ombudsman, the deputies and her magnificent technical team on the 2016 report, and I show our fundamental agreement with the Ombudsman's intervention in this House today. But without prejudice to the above, I will make five constructive comments on the report. The first is that the excess of conciseness and sometimes the lack of context and motivation make the report - sometimes - opaque and difficult to understand. There is a lack of a clear and well-reasoned position on the part of the Office of the Ombudsman. The second is that the reduction made at the time of the Ombudsman's response to the citizen is desirable, but provided that this shortening does not affect the quality of his or her decisions. Without prejudice to the above, I understand that it would be most appropriate to reduce the time taken by the Administration to respond to the defence counsel, and I understand that this has not been achieved, except for the shortening of the time taken by the Attorney General's Office. Third. It is true, as the report says, that the number of resolutions accepted by the Administration has increased, but it is also true that the degree of acceptance depends on what is requested, and so in the report I have found quite a few examples of resolutions accepted with requests that are too empty and easy to accept: for example, to study the possibility of, or to assess the desirability of, such resolutions. Fourth. There are recommendations that have been rejected by the Administration that I consider should be more visible and relevant. The previous demonstrations pointed out it is time to enter the bulk of my intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common place that the enjoyment and enjoyment of social rights is conditioned, among other things, on the availability of budgetary resources, but despite this economic conditioning, the social State proclaimed by the Constitution requires that, for the realization of the values of freedom and equality, the State should have minimum welfare for the disadvantaged and excluded, and that without such satisfaction there is no freedom or equality that is worth it. That is how things - and hence the introduction of the report that I have made - the Ombudsman's report points out, or derives from it, what the consequences of the economic crises and the adjustments in expenditure have been, and it also deduces or indicates how these circumstances have affected social rights, which on the other hand dampened or avoided the exclusion of disadvantaged groups. Consequently, and given the prolific nature of the report, I will refer to the following topics: poverty, employment, disability, education and dependency. Poverty and exclusion. If in 2015, according to Eurostat data, 13,100,000 people were at risk of poverty and exclusion -2,000,400 more people than in 2008 - if in 2015, according to these data, 2,000,900 minors were at risk of poverty -100,000 more than in 2010 - and if the defender's report shows that the dual system of protection of families at risk is limited, unwieldy and fails to meet the needs that arise, if all this happens we have enough objective elements to consider that there is a lot to worry about, that the recovery has been slow and uneven, that the economic growth of the past year has not been enough to rebalance the devastating effects of the recession, and that poverty reduction policies have not been effective. That is why we find ourselves not with the social state that proclaims the Constitution, but with a state of poverty in which the lack of equality encamps and comes out to meet all those who are willing to see it. Employment. After the crisis, we have moved from a situation of social emergency to a situation of precariousness and lack of opportunity. The report notes that, according to data from the Statistical Institute, unemployment in Spain affects more than 4 million workers, which represents an unemployment rate of more than 18%. The maintenance of high unemployment rates - defensa dixit - means that people of full working age do not contribute their contributions to the support of the Social Security System and are in need of public support to survive. Hard panorama, ladies and gentlemen. All this - the defender continues - makes it imperative that the administrations maintain active employment policies coordinated that will encourage the improvement of the employability of the collectives punished for the lack of employment. But we wonder, has this recommendation been taken into account? The answer is not in heaven, the answer is no. Continuing with employment, young people - the study points out - have an unemployment rate among those under the age of 25 close to 50%. How much disappointment and how much I am uprooting young people and how much pain in runaway families! She also notes the failure of the youth guarantee system, which the European Union has recently reminded us of. In education, there are three issues that make the difference between a government that supports the social state and a government that deconstructs it: free regulated education, scholarships and inclusive education. The Ombudsman's report again infers the line of overthrow that the Government has drawn on the social state. As for compulsory education, we know that the Constitution provides that basic education is compulsory and free of charge, but is it really free of charge? The Ombudsman's reports indicate that in practice it is not, as many families cannot meet all the costs of compulsory schooling for their children. It follows from the Ombudsman's recommendation that no, there is no equal opportunity for boys and girls in compulsory education. With regard to the fellowships of the complaints submitted, it is inferred that the scholarship system, especially the university system, has been tightened, it takes longer to recognize the right, and once the final amount of the scholarship is recognized, the final amount of the scholarship is unknown. In short, it can be concluded that the restrictive policy of scholarships has triggered and made a target against equal opportunities in education. Inclusive teaching. The reports indicate that the public authorities do not make available to students with disabilities all the necessary means, reasonable adjustments, for them to receive an education that is polite, personalized and on equal terms. From this account it is easy to collate that our education system only formally accepts the mandate of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, especially with regard to cognitive and sensory disabilities, with an educational gap between students with disabilities and other students. The ordinary school is not of all or all. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many issues on my record that lack of time prevents me from exposing, but I am content with pointing out a conclusion. It follows from the report that the economic and social policies against the crisis have been pursued in the most disadvantaged social groups - the small improvements of 2016 have barely affected them -, social groups which have not been satisfied with their basic needs, which has changed the essence of the social state, making equality and freedom for them become wet paper. President, to conclude, says Flores d'Arcais that without political rights people cannot be sure of their personal rights. But without social rights political rights will remain an unattainable dream, a useless fiction or a cruel joke for those - many - to whom the law formally guarantees such rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate and welcome to this House the Ombudsman and her entire team for the clarity of her presentation, for the fulfilment of the deadlines and for the intense activity carried out, which has been meriting the approval of most groups throughout her term of office. This has been demonstrated by the content of some of the speeches we have heard in the rostrum this morning, in which more than appreciating the content of your report has been devoted to that recurring and uncompromising hobby of criticizing the People's Party Government, whether or not it comes to the case, so I will be forced to answer any of those claims. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, no one has left this Parliament here. Spain is a democracy and a rule of law, and democracy is born with freedom, but it lives with the law. We are all obliged to respect the principle of legality. No one is above the law. Those who fail to do so must bear the consequences of such non-compliance. [[Applauds]] I would like to highlight two very significant data from the comprehensive report presented to us today by the human rights defender, which demonstrates the effectiveness of her work. The first is that the number of complaints has been decreasing in recent years. In 2016, 16,485 complaints were received at the institution, far from the nearly 35,000 that were received in 2010, when the disaster called to the doors of Spain, which means that either in these years the administrations work better or Spain works better, or both things at the same time. What you can't say is that things are worse. Well, you can say, we have already seen it in this rostrum, that is, with no credibility, because you accuse us of promoting inequality, but you forget that the greatest source of inequality is unemployment, and that is why when you ruled, from 2007 to 2011, Spain was the OECD country that grew the most in inequality. [[Rumors]] Yes, I know we are all concerned about inequality, but what I'm saying is that when you govern the problems of unemployment and inequality you grow and when we govern you the opposite happens, you decrease, and there are the statistics to prove it. [[Applauds]] The second point I would like to highlight is that there has been a 66% increase in the Office of the Ombudsman, an increase which shows that we are facing a living institution and that it is acting more and more rigorously, closely and effectively. Proof of this - it has already been said - is how the average response time has been reduced or that 82% of the recommendations it addressed to the administrations were accepted by them without any reservation, exceeding by far the percentages of previous years. As far as areas of action are concerned, the report reflects that, although justice has improved, it is still the one that concentrates the largest number of complaints, many of which are related to delays in judicial proceedings. It also notes, although some seek to cast doubt, that there is no ill-treatment and the rights of prisoners are respected in prisons and detention centres in Spain. By the way, Madam Advocate, the efforts and efforts you are making to ensure that in the most dramatic cases of Spanish prisoners in foreign prisons they can be repatriated are commendable. There have been many other areas of activity that have developed in the economic or social sphere where the institution has fulfilled these supervisory functions. From the demand for greater clarity in the financial products offered by banks to the areas of housing - indeed, whether they are so concerned by evictions to support the royal decree - or the areas of education or health, that is, the whole of social policies. I know that there is much use in these matters of demagogy and amplification of the difficulties that many Spaniards continue to face today, but what cannot be said is that the government of the People's Party has little less ended the welfare state. Not with the numbers in your hand, ladies and gentlemen. Because we are succeeding in reducing the deficit and getting out of the crisis with a great effort on the part of the Spaniards, but we are also getting out of the crisis in solidarity and raising social spending. For the first time in history last year we exceeded the EUR 300 billion allocated to social expenditure by all administrations. So facta, no money, facts, not just words. They will be able to make speeches as they please, but reality denies them. We have not dismantled the welfare state. We have done something much more important, which is to save him from bankruptcy, which is a very different thing and you should know it. [[Applauds]] One matter that has merited a special study has been asylum. I know that there is a long way to go to resolve the humanitarian tragedy that millions of displaced people are experiencing, but let us not mix up the issues, because one thing is immigration for economic reasons and another is that caused by armed conflict or political persecution, and that is where we talk about asylum. To resolve almost 18,000 outstanding requests, including 3,000 Syrian citizens, we have increased the budget of the Asylum Office by one hundred per cent. By the way, do you know which nationality has the highest number of asylum seekers? You know that? The Venezuelan woman, more than 4,000 applicants, gives an idea of the serious political situation in that country with the Chavista regime. This is not said by the People's Party, but also by Acnur. So if they are concerned about asylum for political persecution, they also know who they can address. [[Applauds]] One more year, the Ombudsman has again expressed her concern about the victims of gender-based violence. It certainly does not comfort anything that the number of fatalities is falling in the last decade. The goal is to fight this scourge and eradicate it from our society until its total elimination. The important thing for this is not to change the name and call it macho violence. Indeed, in the area of macho language they have many things to correct their leaders. The important thing is to consider any kind of violence incompatible with democracy, the important thing is to reject and combat violence, whether it is called gender or sexist, and any kind of aggression, coercion or intimidation. I say this because some today are very concerned about the situation of ETA prisoners or because there are no suspicions of torture in police units, but then they take the picture and become lawyers for the aggressors of the civilian guards in Alsasua, who were cowardly and savagely beaten by the mere fact of being public servants, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Either with one or with another, there's no middle ground. And that is precisely what the Ombudsman has done in her report on victims of ETA: to stand next to justice and truth. And there are no ambiguities or equidistances in this matter, either with the victims or with their executioners. And we will always be with the victims and also with freedom and peace, which have no price to pay. Therefore, listen carefully, there are already winners and losers - it is a pity that Bildu's representatives are not in this House - there are already winners and losers. They have defeated those who defended their ideas with the word and not with guns; they have defeated the men and women who were able to defend the freedom of all, even with their lives; they have defeated democracy and lost the terrorists and those who supported and justified them. That is why ETA's fate will be its defeat or surrender, unconditionally and without counterpart, and then move on to the garbage dump of history. [[Applauds]] And that's why no one will be able to erase or distort the truth of what happened, and that's why history will have to remember that for the freedom and rights of the Basques and all of us did not fight those who killed, fought those who died. And that is why the future of our democracy will have to rest on the memory and dignity of the victims; of victims like your brother, Mari Mar - who know what you are going through - whom we will never forget, we will always carry in our hearts and who will always be a reference of freedom for all of us. [[Referring to Mrs. Blanco Garrido]] [[Applauds]] Those values in defence of freedom and human rights are those reflected in the report of the Ombudsman, which we are going to support, a living institution that demonstrates every day that it is a useful institution for the defence of the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause in the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u46	Thank you very much. Many thanks to the Ombudsman and the entire team of the Ombudsman. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u47	We now turn to the agenda item on requests for the establishment of committees of inquiry, and in particular to the request of the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Citizens for the establishment of a commission of inquiry concerning the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party. The Socialist Group, Mr Rallo Lombarte, is speaking first of all to defend the request made by its groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we told you the first day the scandal broke out: the shadow of Bárcenas will haunt you as long as you do not explain and assume your political responsibilities. [[The Lord]] And here you are, eight years later, buried under the shadow of Barcens and their papers, which are yours. I'm sure it's scary for all of you, because it shows the disturbing suspicion of the illegal financing of the People's Party. Members of the PP, suspicion became a sign, a sign of proof, and proof of its illegal financing became testimonies and documents that led to current accounts, millionaire figures, envelopes, bonuses, gifts and even mariachis. Suspicions, indications and evidence that have accompanied them every day over the past eight years; suspicions, indications and evidence that have been increasing with every judicial diligence and every piece of information. Without going any further, the press of the day, with two covers. One: The employer financed the campaign of the PP of Esperanza Aguirre in 2007. Another: An example of Correa alerted Granados of the activities of the Gürtel plot. This is today, but it has been so over the past eight years. On February 6, 2009 - remember - was the day of the arrest of Correa and El Bigotes. For you, deputies of the PP, surely it was a fateful day, sure that a cold sweat went through your body; for the rest it was the confirmation of the evidence, the discovery of the plot of illegal financing of the PP for twenty years, the whole of its existence. From the minute one of its foundation the PP had benefited from an illegal anabolic financing, breaking the minimum rules of democratic clean play. Stupid, the citizens had to hear only five days later how Mr. Rajoy claimed outraged: 'This is not a plot of the PP, it is a plot against the PP'. The arrogance that accompanied those ominous images of Mr. Rajoy surrounded by his main plane, of many of you - do you remember?-, became a bochorno when the judicial parade began. Today, only in Gürtel, there are twelve separate pieces and 167 processed, from the PP and its surroundings. The initial explanations of the PP appealed to the honorability of the accused. Do you remember? No one will be able to prove guilt - they said - and so for eight years, without assuming political responsibilities. Silences and lies, live and deferred, will well be remembered by the minister, secretary-general, today absent from this debate, evidenced the lack of a democratic talent, although possibly in thirty minutes he runs this corridor to attend the vote. Gürtel, Bárcenas, Fatur, the Pope, the Punic, Taula, Imelsa, Brugal, Formula 1, Marsa, Novo Carthago, Wind, Palma Arena. Always the illegal financing of the PP, always false explanations, denied by new evidence and new information, always growing garbage before the astonished eyes of the citizens. Today everyone knows that the PP for more than twenty years has been financed outside the law. And do not dare, gentlemen of the PP, to bear the presumption of innocence, because the presumption of innocence put Correa in her suitcase on her way to Alcalá-Meco to fulfill for the moment - for the moment - thirteen years in prison. Correa, the one who was wearing the blue carpet when he was entering Genoa. Because the presumption of innocence is framed by El Bigotes in his cell for - at the moment - the next nine years. The Bigotes, the little friend of Camps' soul. From north to south, from east to west and, unfortunately, always passing through Madrid and the Valencian Community. Illegal financing to pay for works, bonuses, trips, holidays, elections and, of course, for the personal enrichment of collectors, also called in the PP treasurers or managers. Ministers, presidents of autonomous communities, deputies, senators, councillors, autonomous deputies, presidents of the Parliament, mayors, councillors, all beneficiaries of the network. To this day the President of the Government appears in the papers of Barcenas. Illicit association, prevarication, fraud, covetousness, falsehood, embezzlement, fraud, electoral offences: medium Penal Code. And while, the absolute majority of the People's Group, week after week, rejecting more than twenty appearances by Mr Rajoy and all the requests for commissions of inquiry made by my group since 2013. By ignominious episodes, worthy of shame and bochorno like those of 'Luis, be strong', 'we do what we can', the whole world turned its gaze towards Spain. The international press devoted their cover to them, but this was not going with Mr. Rajoy. Far from assuming their political responsibilities, they have dedicated themselves to obstructing the action of the justice system by challenging judges, fraudulently exercising the particular charge, complaining against officials, ceasing tax inspectors, suing the media, complaining against deputies, destroying evidence, hard drives, agendas... The obsession of the PP was nothing more than to prevent the courts and Parliament from ascertaining the reality, the facts, and demanding criminal and political responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a parliamentary chamber, not a court. The judges will determine the criminal responsibilities of the many involved in the financing of the PP, all of them positions of the People's Party and its environment, but what the judges cannot do, but yes, this House, is to demand political responsibilities for machining an illegal financing system in B that allowed them for years to attend over-funded, doped elections and adulterating election results. I'm done, President. Mr Rajoy, wherever you are, absent once again - possibly within half an hour have the courage to come to the House, but not now -, for four years you managed to avoid your appearance in this Congress, but today the People's Party will no longer be able to avoid it. They can no longer avoid responding politically to this House. Today the creation of this Commission will mark a time before and a time after in the democratic health of our country, because to heal a wound we must first clean it up. The gangrene of corruption linked to the illegal financing of the PP has seriously damaged the social appreciation of the Spanish towards democratic institutions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u49	Mr. Rallo, you have to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, we will only recover it by offering the Spanish answers and debugging responsibilities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Rallo. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Bescansa Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u52	Let me begin this intervention by reflecting on the substance of the issue here today, a crucial issue that justifies the request for the establishment of this Commission on the corruption of the People's Party. Let me start the intervention by reflecting on what corruption in democracy means and implies. Historically, the defence of democracy has been carried out by confronting threats of a very different nature. John Locke, in his Second Civil Government Treaty, defended democracy against absolutism and land concentration. Lincoln defended democracy against slavery and against the monarchy. Lassalle defended democracy in the face of social inequality. Bolivar defended democracy in the face of social unhappiness. Clara Campoamor defended democracy against machismo. Gramsci defended democracy against fascism. Today, in the twenty-first century, it is up to us to defend democracy against corruption and corruption. The main threat of representative democracies and Spanish democracy is corruption. Corruption is pre-democracy. There is no democracy that has not had corruption. The first political parties in the world, the British parties, although today this may seem like a joke, were born precisely in the face of corruption. The revolving doors exist even before the political parties existed; they exist as we now know them from the 19th century, as Zola well described in her novel "Money". But that political corruption is a phenomenon of long encouragement does not mean that it is an inevitable phenomenon. It is not consistent with human nature and is not common to all political systems and all parties. Political corruption does not affect all systems equally, not all parties equally, not all politicians alike, nor, of course, impunity affects all systems equally. There are political systems that are corrupt and others that are not, there are political parties that are corrupt and others that are not, there are corrupt politicians and others that are not, and there are entrepreneurs that corrupt and others that do not. To constitute a commission of inquiry into the corruption of the PP is an obligation of all people who are here and who want to defend democracy in Spain, because before any other principle it is our obligation to defend the democracy of their main enemies. It is the duty of all, including the parliamentarians of the People's Party, who must be precisely the most interested in investigating the corruption of their party, to approve the request for the establishment of this commission of inquiry. Gentlemen of the People's Party, I call you to break the voting discipline, I call those of you who want to know how your party worked, how it was financed and who really want to fulfil the commitment to the people who voted for you and put you here, to vote in favour of setting up a commission of inquiry, because if you have something to hide, you will be the first interested ones to know that is revealed, and if you have nothing to hide, you will also be the first interested ones that this commission reveals that you had nothing to hide and that the accusations were false. However, to believe that the People's Party has no corruption is to live in another world. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u53	Wait a minute, Mrs. Bescansa. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u54	The Popular Party is the most corrupt political party in the history of democracy, it is the first political party in Spain to have been accused. The People's Party is the political party that, depending on the particular moment, has had or continues to have between 150 and 250 accused or convicted persons. In the center, in the periphery and in the semi-periphery of the People's Party there have been people stealing at full hands for themselves and for the party. [[Applauds]] To set up a commission of inquiry into corruption in the People's Party is an obligation for all the people in this House, for all the people we have as our first obligation to defend good democracy, a quality democracy in Spain. First of all, democracy must defend itself against its enemies. The ongoing judicial investigations are finding people at all levels of the People's Party stealing public money to finance the party - the whole plot a Gürtel -, people stealing public money to take it raw - like all the Púnica plot -, people stealing to finance the PP and take it raw at the same time - almost all the members of the Gürtel plot and the Púnica plot -, people collecting envelopes to make fools or to continue feeding the plots of corruption, and people corrupting political parties and at the same time stealing from companies that corrupt the PP, which also have them, like López Madrid. In short, judicial investigations have put on the table virtually the full range of possible corrupt practices. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are going to approve the constitution of this committee of inquiry, we are going to approve it even if you vote against it. That is good news for the democracy of our country, but it would be even better news for you to vote in favour of the constitution of that committee; perhaps not the whole parliamentary group, perhaps just some of you, just some decent people who want to investigate and want to put light and stenographers on your party and on the functioning of it. When the judges and this House complete their investigations we will know how much has been stolen, we will know how many people have done so, and although we will never know how many seats, how many mayors and how many governments you have won by cheating and stealing, we will know at least how many people, how many structures, how many political directorates of the PP have participated in the illegal financing of this organization. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs Bescansa. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I have the floor for the Vidal Swift.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. The creation of the committee of inquiry we are dealing with was part of one of the six previous demands put by the Citizens' Group to sit down and negotiate with you our investiture agreement which has allowed Mr Rajoy to be President of the Government at this time. They were prerequisites and non-negotiable because they had to do with regeneration. What do you think is the origin of the political disaffection in Spain, of the bad, often undeserved fame that politicians in Spain have, of the discredit of the Spanish institutions? Well, look, the origin is in the mixture of two ingredients that form an explosive cocktail: that for the first time in a very long time the social elevator has stopped working in Spain, that for the first time in a long time the parents have thought that their children will live worse than they, plus a second ingredient that is political corruption. This is so fundamental that we had them sign this agreement on conditions of regeneration beforehand, and one of them was the creation of a commission of inquiry into the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party. We did not trust you, not because personally, one by one, you are not worthy of trust, but because we do not believe that some of those who are at the origin of that disorder that I was talking about will regenerate motu proprio Spanish politics. [[Applauds]] Have we not understood each other and are we not understanding each other on many issues? Are we not reaching agreements on policies that improve people's lives? What happens, gentlemen of the People's Group, when we come to the chapter on corruption? Why do they start to miss their word when we get there? The spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party - which is not sitting here today and knows me very badly because it should be - and I signed an agreement that committed to creating that Commission. Pacta sunt servanda, the agreements are about to be fulfilled, and you have tried to circumvent that obligation. [[Applauds]] They are obliged to comply with their commitments. How could they not understand that it was going to be the same? How did they not understand that there is an alternative majority? If virtue did not help them, at least intelligence has always helped them. If the Committee of Inquiry is to be formed as well, why not join it? I think it has to do with you continuing to be inertial in the attitude of an absolute majority that you already lack, in the way of those ruined old nobles. You no longer have an absolute majority and you will have to get used to it, and that requires a change of attitude, a change of style and, if you will allow me and let me give you this clue, also the understanding that there are strategic restrictions for those who do not have an absolute majority, because, as I said, with you or without you the Commission is going to be created and you knew that it was going to be created. That is why I, who hold you intelligent and do not prejudice you, because here we are not going to judge you but to seek political responsibilities, I committed my word in front of the media saying: I have the absolute conviction that Mr Hernando - welcome! - will come with me on Monday - I said that on a Thursday at a press conference - and we will report together to the Registry to request the creation of that commission. [[The Lord]] Well, it didn't happen like that, and I don't understand, Don Rafael, I don't understand! [[Applauds]] When we called for the creation of the Commission of Inquiry into the Corruption of the Palau de la Música, you supported us in the Parliament of Catalonia to investigate Convergence. When we called for the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the case of training courses in the Andalusian Parliament, you supported us to investigate the PSOE. But when it comes to investigating the Barcenes case, you ask that everyone be investigated, that is, no one! [[Applauds]] Behind the Bárcenas case we do not believe that there is a mere problem of irregularities of a gentleman. I could now recreate myself with deferred indemnities, out-of-account accounting or hard drive bleeding. I'm not gonna do it because I don't want to make jokes, because this isn't fun, it's not funny. I believe that there is a form of institutionalized corruption in Spain. I believe that in Spain there is a framework dedicated to bites, to grant public works in exchange for financing in black. Please help us to rule out this terrible hypothesis; help us to rule it out, and I am sure they will because they have understood that they will have to vote in favour of setting up this Commission. Therefore, I will put it another way: if we do not rule out the existence of this kind of entanglement, I assure you that for some of us there will be no mercy toward the corrupt. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u58	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. They will allow me to refer to something that happened today in the Parliament of Navarre before I enter into the debate on this point. Today for shipwrecks is a tremendously hard day. Today, in the Parliament of Navarre, a law repealing the Symbols Act has been passed, which will allow flags from other communities to fly in the balconies and halls of the institutions of Navarre. This implies the intention of the present four-party Government, populism and nationalism, to wave the ikurriña in the Navarra institutions. In that sense, I want to say two things. First, that the red flag with the chains of the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa, which is of the Foral Community of Navarra, already welcomes all beliefs and ideologies and logically seeks the unity of all shipwrecks. And, secondly, no symbol, no flag represents any feeling; it represents the institutions, and never the Ikurriña, which represents the Basque institutions, will represent the Foral Community of Navarre. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say the following, and I support the matter. I share with Mr Girauta an analysis that he has made, that is that the greatest disaffection that society has today towards politicians, towards the people we devote ourselves to politics, is undoubtedly due to corruption. Navarro People's Union will always be against any kind of corruption. It is also corruption to use terror to reach power or try to be in power. We are therefore in favour of the fight against corruption, but we are also against a commission of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what the courts of justice are for; let them do their job. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I also sincerely say to you that I believe that you have already written the opinion and conclusions before the establishment of this committee of inquiry. Here we are to legislate, not to judge or to prejudge, which is what is intended here. Since we are talking about legislating, ladies and gentlemen, I hope, after listening to your speeches, that when the proposal for a law of the Navarro People's Union to modify the financing of political parties arrives, they will vote in favour of the proposal of the Navarro People's Union regarding private donations in order to avoid interests. In the founding genes of our political force is the prohibition of private donations, which has allowed, among other issues, that during almost twenty-four years of uninterrupted government of the Navarro People's Union in Navarre never even a public office has been investigated or there has been any firm sentence, because we are noble people as are the Navarros. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Alli. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is that after hearing Mr. Girauta little we can add. We fully agree on this. Yesterday I did a simple exercise before taking notes for this intervention and went to Google. I put three words: 'illegal financing PP'. I got 905,000 results, almost a million results in the search for 'illegal financing PP', and I think this should be worrying. There have been more than thirty documented cases of illegal financing of the People's Party, more than 800 accused of the People's Party and names that are already part of everyday life: Gürtel, Púnica, Taula, Imelsa, Emarsa, Brugal, Formula 1, Palma Arena, Marbella penthouse, etc. As a Valencian, of course, I had to go up here because in my autonomous community too we have had many cases and many accused. All the treasurers of the People's Party have been imputed except Romay Beccaría, five treasurers of six, five of six: Ángel Sanchís, Naseiro, Bárcenas, Lapuerta or Carmen Navarro. Mr Bárcenas, the gentleman who no longer militates in the PP, made it very clear: There has been illegal financing in the People's Party since 1982 and the treasurers reported to the president or secretary-general. Therefore, some assumption of political responsibility had to have been, some resignation. Nothing, an erial, a desert, a lot of hypocrisy, a lot of excuses, a lot of looking away and, what I'm saying, 'That gentleman no longer militates in the People's Party' or 'That's things that happened a long time ago'. This happened today, see the press. Today we are talking about new cases of corruption by the People's Party. Sometimes, when I get an interview, I appreciate you not asking me about corruption because the issue of illegal financing of the People's Party always or almost always appears. I'm done. I want to make a final reflection for Citizens and the Socialist Party. You voted in favour of Mr Rajoy and you abstained for him to be president and for there to be a PP government, which, as we all know, is a serious and responsible party that fulfills what he signs. For example, this. Well, this, no. And Murcia, either. We signed, but then we didn't do it. I'm done. They had to sign with Podemos so that this commission could start. I say: Wouldn't it have been better to leave this party out of government that doesn't keep its promises and try to agree on some things? I'll leave it there. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say that I am glad that the coexistence, tolerance and free expression of sentiments are being made a gap over the intolerance of previous Governments in Navarre. Having said that, a commission of inquiry is proposed on the alleged funding of the People's Party. The People's Party has many things to clarify about the Gürtel case, Barcens, envelopes and hard drives. There is no doubt that the facts should be clarified, punished in their case and that nothing like this should be repeated again. But what is sought at parliamentary level, to clarify the facts or to define political responsibilities over facts that are still under judicious? We have to ask ourselves what the parliamentary seat can do. Is this the right place to clarify some facts? Is it logical to implement it at a time when there is a very advanced judicial process in progress, where evidence and witnesses have passed before the courts in lengthy research? Being realistic, will the committee be able to really clarify the matter? Is there greater capacity in Parliament to gather documents and testimonies, beyond those obtained or to be obtained by judges? Is it appropriate to make a trial to settle political responsibilities, which is the essence of a parliamentary commission of inquiry, when the facts about exactly the same object - I insist, exactly the same object that is proposed for the commission are still being tried by the courts?- Could it not perhaps be possible to wait for clarification of the facts in the courts to then deduce whether political responsibilities are deducted from them or from others beyond the penal ones? Rather, I sense that this may turn out to be the birth of the mountains of the fable of Aesop, in the end the mountains will end up giving birth to a little mouse. A lot of noise and few nuts in terms of the objective that is said to be pursued. On the other hand, what I'm sure of is that it's going to be the perfect scenario for the political pimpampum and the gross disqualifications, targeting the headlines and the 'and you more'. In short, one more episode of the embarrassing spectacle of Spanish politics. But maybe this is what you're looking for, too. I believe that in the search for more sectoral dishes, to the greatest glory of the show, we will continue to create and recreate subcommissions, presentations and so on, sending the misleading signal to the public that all the problems of the country will be solved from here, in one bite, in a minute and without it producing indigestion. And we will write pseudosuccessful reports that will only reflect vague and grandiose disagreements and solutions. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u63	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u64	We are confident that justice will be provided in the specific case before us. It is the judges who, by virtue of their powers, have been able to access testimonies and evidence, and we want the whole truth to be clarified and the criminal responsibilities to be defined and, in their case, the policies, of course, too. We will vote in favour so that no one doubts our position, which is firm from the outset in the face of the events that have taken place in the alleged - as is literally said in the proposal - funding from the People's Party. I wish to serve this committee to shed more light on the case that is the subject of its creation, but allow me to maintain my scepticism for the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà has the floor. [[Pause]] He's not here. We're still here. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Suárez Lamata has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying - not because Mrs Bescansa has asked for it, but because we are going to comply with point 98 of the agreement signed, Mr Girauta, with the Citizens' Parliamentary Group - that we are going to vote in favour of the Committee of Inquiry. But then, ladies and gentlemen, after listening to all of you, I wonder why you want a committee of inquiry, if you know everything. Mr Rallo has been stating one after another that they are currently in the courts in the absence of a sentence. This is not going to be a commission of inquiry, this is going to be a commission of demolition against the People's Party. This is a committee on which a majority has conjured up this morning to dictate what in its day is politically convenient, with a single objective, ladies and gentlemen, which is to wear down the People's Party. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] You all know - and the PNV spokesman said - that in the commissions of inquiry there is no reason but that in the end the majority dictates them, and I will give you two examples. Recently in Aragon, in one of the biggest cases of alleged corruption - I am going to speak of presumption, Mr Rallo - with EUR 162 million that was allegedly paid by a socialist government, the commission of inquiry has decided that there is no political responsibility. In Andalusia, with Citizens and the Socialist Party, the committee has just decided not because Mrs Díaz was not politically responsible, but neither Mr Griñán nor Mr Chaves are politically responsible. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: There, there!]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have confused the Chamber today; this is not a popular court. [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u67	Wait a minute, Mr. Lamata. I beg you all to remain silent. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u68	You do not want a commission of inquiry to end corruption; you want to put the media focus on the People's Party to hide your own inability to contribute in this Chamber and, above all, so that the Spaniards do not know that it is the People's Party that is taking this country forward. Mr. Rallo, I'm addressing you especially because I already did it the other time. How am I not going to talk about article 24, the principle of presumption of innocence? I am addressing nothing more and nothing less than a professor of constitutional law who makes this principle one of the essences of his life and the day he is appointed a politician decides to put on the monkey of politics and trample on all the principles he teaches his students. [[Applauds]] Mr Rallo, this is an example for public education; this is an example. I agree with the PNV spokesman. All honourable Members know that the cases which are the subject of this committee of inquiry are sub judicious. It could not take place in Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium and France since 1958, mainly because the parallel commissions of inquiry ultimately disrupt criminal trials. I say this in a way of reflection, but from here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some considerations. In all the interventions I have seen a very important lapse. You have forgotten to explain in this rostrum why all of you have agreed to prevent this commission from investigating all political parties. If it is to end all corruption, what will have to be explained is why not all political parties can be investigated. Following the example of Mr Baldoví's criterion, which said that there are 800,000 pages of Google search, I will say that there are 1,600,000 pages when one puts: corruption, Socialist Party. But there are 46 million pages of Podemos, 2.1 million pages of Citizens and 2.1 million pages of Commitments talking about alleged funding, Mr Baldoví. [[Mr Baldoví Roda speaks words that are not perceived.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u69	Please, just a moment. Mr. Baldoví, it is not your turn to question at this time. Thank you very much. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u70	You have to explain, ladies and gentlemen, if you have nothing to hide, what you are afraid of. Because in the end, and I address the Podemos Group, is it not reasonable to investigate EREs, training courses, Invercaria? Do you remember the 70,000 euros? Do you remember, Mr. Garzón, a shoebox with 70,000 euros? Do you remember the Macsa case, the Competitive Bay case? Citizens four days ago wanted to know if Podemos had received or had not received, through the CEPS Foundation, 7.2 million Venezuela, and what links it had. Here they want a commission of inquiry, but Mr. Iglesias does not want to go to Venezuela; they do not want to investigate whether or not the electoral campaign, crowdfunding and platforms have been funded with the foundation; they do not want to investigate what about the Iranian connection. [[Rumors]] They don't want to investigate. Is all this not relevant, ladies and gentlemen, to know whether or not there is corruption? Do you really believe that the Gómez Besteiro case, the Pachi Vázquez case, the Patos case, the Santos Héctor case, the Plaza case, the Naves case or the Pagarés case are not relevant? Mr Hernando - who is not - I would like someone from the Socialist Party to tell me whether or not it is relevant, because here, Mr Girauta, there is for everyone. You're a new game, but the projection is nothing good. In 2008, the Court of Auditors accused you of a lack of transparency and cooperation. You ingenuated them in 2010 to not present the accounts and never again knew. In 2013, they did not provide donations, they did not provide bank loans. [[Rumors]] You have 800,000 euros that, according to the 2015 accounts, there is no way to know where they came from, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] You guys have problems. Does it not draw your attention, Mr Girauta, to the fact that the Socialist Party has in the last ten years 40 million people who have been pardoned by banks or that it has in its accounts EUR 8 million of a credit which has never been known, which does not appear in the accounts? Isn't that all relevant? Have you heard of the famous Puerto Rico uncle at the Jaime Vera Foundation, who appeared with 1.2 million and never knew where that money came from? Isn't that all relevant, Your Honor, to end corruption? If everything is relevant, Your Honor, why have you refused to investigate all political parties today? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u71	Mr. Suárez, you have to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u72	Not being curious about all this is what makes this commission of inquiry born dead, delegitimized. Today the People's Party has said yes to this committee of inquiry. It is you, all the others, who have to explain why you say no to try to end, ladies and gentlemen, all the corruption in this country. [[Applauds]] Those who want to be good lawyers in this commission of inquiry have been wrong, because they have started the same ruling. That's a big mouth. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the last item on the agenda, on proposals for the creation of subcommittees and, in particular, on the proposal of the Constitutional Commission for the creation of a subcommittee for electoral reform. In principle, such agreements are adopted without prior debate and, therefore, as no intervention has been requested, this proposal will be put to the vote at the end of this meeting. We shall now proceed to the vote in three minutes. Thank you very much. [[The President took the Chair.-Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u75	Let's start the voting. We begin with the motion following urgent questioning of the Citizens Parliamentary Group, on the policies of the Ministry of the Interior to improve the safety of motorcycle and moped users. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's, Socialist, Confederal of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos, de Esquerra Republicana y Mixto parliamentary groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 311 votes in favour, 311.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u76	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u77	We then vote on Royal Decree-Law 5/2017, of 17 March, amending Royal Decree-Law 6/2012, of 9 March, of urgent measures for the protection of unresourced mortgage debtors and Law 1/2013, of 14 May, of measures to strengthen the protection of mortgage debtors, debt restructuring and social rental. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 313 plus 1 telematic vote, 314; in favour, 236 plus 1 telematic vote, 237; abstentions, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u78	It's validated. [[Applauds]] The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 315 plus one telematic vote, 316; in favour, 78; against, 232 plus one telematic vote, 233; abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u79	Consequently, it will not be dealt with as a draft law by urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u80	We then voted for the request of the Socialist Parliamentary Groups, Confederal of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Citizens to set up a commission of inquiry concerning the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes cast; 316 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u81	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-30-CD170330.u82	Proposals for the establishment of subcommittees. Proposal of the Constitutional Commission for the creation of a subcommission for electoral reform. Can it be understood to be approved by consent? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. It's approved. The meeting rose. It was twelve and twenty-five minutes from noon.
