ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House that the agenda be amended to ensure that the points on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions are discussed today following point 6. This Presidency also proposes to the plenary that, as the last point of today's sitting, the request for a three-month extension of the deadline granted to the subcommittee for the study and definition of a national justice strategy set up within the Committee on Justice be included for the conclusion of the work. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u2	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on the proposal by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, amending Rules 111 and 126. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Montero Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u3	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen - those who are in plenary at three o'clock in the afternoon - the citizens who are following this debate, in general the citizens, think, because this is what the Constitution puts it, that this is the seat of popular sovereignty and that, therefore, it is the place where the laws that regulate our coexistence and our day-to-day life are made. Many of us and of us remember many of you, and many of us also - for example, now Minister Cospedal - how when we exercised our constitutional right of assembly or demonstration they told us: if you want to change things, do not do it by exercising those constitutional rights; to change things, you have to come to Parliament, present laws and get the necessary support; this is how things change in democracy. We also tell the citizens that when there are different political forces in Parliament and no one has an absolute majority, as is the case with this legislature, it is actually Parliament that governs. I remember that my parliamentary group was given a lot of argument by the socialist bench when they proposed that we support Mr Rivera's government, chaired by Sánchez; that nothing really happened to support that government because it was going to be Parliament that ruled. But the reality is that all this we tell the citizens is just a lie. In a year's term of office, this House has only passed a legislative initiative with the rank of law, a law, which has been proposed by a group different from the government group, which is the Spanish Broadcasting Act. This House, in a year's term of office, has only passed five laws, of which four have as one of the proposing groups to the People's Party. And people will wonder how it is possible that in a year we only pass five laws and four of them are at the initiative of the party that is in government. The answer is very simple, and there are formulas by which the government or related groups or those who are interested in nothing changing can turn a rule of this Parliament, which must regulate the activity of this house, into a trap and thus prevent the Legislative from fulfilling its function, which is to legislate. The first of these traps is the eternal extension of the deadline for amendments. When a law is being processed, there is a time limit for amendments in which parliamentary groups can propose changes to that law. That's a normal thing. But when a deadline for amendments is extended indefinitely, then we are turning a rule into a trap that prevents an initiative from being processed. There are several laws - Mr.Garea tells us today - which have almost thirty extensions of the deadline. Do you know, for example, what law takes almost thirty extensions of time? A law to raise the minimum wage to the citizens of this country, a law that proposes to raise the minimum wage to 950 euros, and the People's Party and the Citizens' Party have extended almost thirty times that period of amendments to prevent the minimum wage from being raised to the citizens of Spain. [[Applauds]] The same is true of the law on gallows, which carries with it seventeen extensions of the deadline for amendments by the People's Party and its citizens' partners. There is another trap that has to do with believing that it can only be legislated on the basis of royal decree-laws. The Royal Decrees are legislative proposals made by the Government and approved by this House on a proposal from the Government. They are supposed to be used only in exceptional or extremely urgent cases, but do you know how many royal decree-laws we have passed in this legislature? Five laws versus twenty-one royal decree-laws; a mechanism that should be extraordinary you make it ordinary and make a good and legal mechanism a trap that prevents this Parliament from legislating, beyond what the Government and the People's Party, your ladies and gentlemen, want. The third trap, which is the one that justifies the bill that we bring here, is that of the budget veto; stay with that word. The Government is abusively vetoing laws that present any party other than the one in the Government and also laws of the autonomous communities - you who claim so much to respect the existing territorial order -, preventing those laws from even being debated here with that veto. What the Government does can happen by a constitutional rule that says that the Government can veto bills that this Parliament intends to do if they affect the approved budgets, the existing budgets. The indecent thing is that this Government is abusively and unlawfully using this mechanism to veto laws that explicitly state in its text that do not affect the current budgets and that, if they affect the budget, they will do so to the future budget. [[Applauds]] Therefore, they use this mechanism abusively. The shame of this Government in abusing the budget veto has become a conflict between the executive and legislative branches, which is now in the hands of the Constitutional Court. This Parliament has presented its arguments to the Constitutional Court, and do you know what the Congress of Deputies thinks of the attitude of the People's Party Government, ladies and gentlemen? I quote you literally: this Parliament, this Congress of Deputies, thinks that what the People's Party Government does has an absolute deterrent effect on the legislative initiative of parliamentary authority, which is set out in Article 87.1 of the Constitution, and also on the legislative power of the General Courts, set out in Article 66.2, linked to that own initiative. I will explain it to you in case you have not understood it, ladies and gentlemen: you are preventing Parliament from legislating, and with that you are also violating the fundamental principle of the rule of law, which is the separation of powers. [[Applauds]] You know it perfectly well because this is known to any boy or girl who studies the ESO: the Legislature and the Executive executes; a dish is a dish, a glass is a glass, and take note, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, because you are preventing - and this Congress tells you - the legislative activity in the Congress of Deputies. They have vetoed, ladies and gentlemen, forty-four bills. To give us an idea of what this data means, in case comparisons are useful, your Government has vetoed in a year more than any government has vetoed in four years' term. In addition, his Government had vetoed in one year more than 40% of what had been vetoed by all governments in the history of Spanish democracy; in one year the same had been vetoed in almost forty years of Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]] The initiatives that have vetoed the most - I insist, you say, defend the current territorial order - have been proposed laws of the Autonomous Communities; then eleven laws to the Joint Group; the next, my parliamentary group, with eight laws; the next, six to the Socialist Group; and we could continue to reach forty-four. But the gravity of the matter is especially appreciated if we see what you are refusing to discuss in this Parliament. You are vetoing proposals for legislation that would make it possible to universalise the right to public health that you carried out when you had an absolute majority; to combat energy poverty; to modify or abolish the judicial fees imposed by your imputed minister, Mr Gallardón, to whom we cast women from this country because he wanted to tell us how to do with our bodies; to encourage electric self-consumption; to increase child benefits; to increase the amount of pensions, because in this country you know that, thanks to your policies, they are pensions of misery; to strengthen collective bargaining, or to make paternity and maternity leave equal and non-transferable. [[Applauds]] It is still curious that you propose that this Parliament should not debate all these legislative proposals. I do not say that I approve them or that I do not, only that we can discuss them, that we can talk about them. You tell us that things, in order for them to go forward, must be proposed and sought consensus, but do not believe it, ladies and gentlemen. You do not like democracy, and before you can discuss it you veto it. And more curious is when in these weeks you are getting involved in the flag of Spain, telling us that this is the privileged space for debate and for the search for agreement, but then when others want to debate and we want to agree, you veto parliamentary initiatives and prevent us from raising the minimum wage or prevent us from having maternity and paternity permits equal and non-transferable or raising pensions. [[Applauds]] But also, when you prevent Parliament from making laws it is logical for people to wonder what the hell we're doing here three hundred and fifty Members of Parliament. You, with this abusive attitude, are causing people to lose confidence in politics and to lose confidence in the capacity for action of this Parliament. In the same way, ladies and gentlemen, that you are taking Catalonia further and further away from Spain every day, with this abusive way of using the budgetary veto, you are increasingly pushing citizens away from the confidence in democracy and from the confidence in the political system they claim to be defending. [[Applauds]] I know you don't like to change things, but in Spain you need changes to improve people's lives. In this country, ladies and gentlemen, there are 13 million people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, one out of every three citizens; three people have the same wealth as that 30% who are at risk of poverty; three out of every four unemployed people do not receive any benefits and 185 evictions per day continue to occur in our country. The Spanish and the Spanish can't afford another minute for you to continue to veto laws that allow people to improve their lives. You not only do not solve problems, you aggravate them, as we are now seeing, together with the Socialist Party and Citizens, by applying 155. [[Applauds]] And when a parliamentary group comes and proposes things to fix, you go and veto it, because you neither help nor let help, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And we are not telling you, not telling you that my parliamentary group is presenting this initiative today, I insist that the lawyers of this Congress - and I take advantage of it to recognize the work they have done - prepared a report, which was voted by the majority of the Bureau of Congress and therefore became the allegations made by this house, the Congress of Deputies, before the Constitutional Court for the conflict between the Executive and the Legislative that you have opened. These allegations make it clear that the Government is abusing the budgetary veto mechanism and that the use of this power is preventing the Chambers from exercising legislative power over their own initiative. Please note, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, ladies and gentlemen of the citizens - I hope the head of state is also attentive to the debate that we have in this House today - because the problem of the People's Party is not that it uses the government and the institutions to slap corrupt people or that we have the Minister of Justice reproached by this House for interfering in the judiciary and telling them what they have to do to judges and prosecutors; it is no longer just that you have shamefully used the Ministry of the Interior to fabricate false evidence against the political adversary, it is that, in addition to that, you are now using the law in a tortuous way to prevent this House from doing what it has to do, that is to make laws. And with that you are breaking the separation of powers, which is the fundamental pillar of the rule of law. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. Spain cannot be allowed a minute longer to have a government that dynamises the separation of powers, cancels Parliament and prevents us from improving people's lives. There are no flags, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that can cover the number of articles in the Constitution that you pass through the arch of triumph day after day. [[Applauds]] Stop patrimonizing the institutions, stop believing that this is your private court - this House is Spanish and not yours - let Parliament work. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, when you come up here to say that there are non-working parliamentary groups, remember that it is you, with your partners, who are preventing this Parliament from working, vetoing the proposals that the parliamentary groups make. [[Applauds]] As I said to you, let Parliament work and - as this House and not only my group have already asked - return to legality, respect the Constitution, which the Democrats and Democrats are waiting for you there. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u4	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Shows a role in which you read: 35!]] Thirty-five, thirty-five times the deadline for amendments to the reform of the Valencian Statute has been extended; thirty-five times. A reform that has only one article, one. It has been almost a year since November last year, extending the deadline for amendments. One article; they should be thinking very well because they have not yet tabled any amendments, so the amendment they are going to do must be large. Look at you've had time; thirty-five times. Swindle, fraud, filibusterism... This is what we are talking about here today; today we are talking about usurpation, kidnapping, theft of the legislative power of this Congress by the government, by the executive. They resort to all kinds of tricks, but above all to two: the vetoes that are not even discussed or this one, extending indefinitely the deadlines for amendments so that we cannot discuss such important laws as the protection of vulnerable consumers, energy poverty, the universalization of the right to health care, the generation of renewable energy for self-consumption, or the compensation fund for asbestos victims. As the U.S. spokesman Podemos said a moment ago, only five laws have managed to get out of this House. Up to 70 legislative initiatives have been halted by vetoing them directly because - they say - it affects the general budgets of the State and because this has always been done - I do not like that, because this has always been done - or by extending the deadlines for amendment indefinitely. Consequences - because this has consequences - all the laws passed by absolute majority in the 10th Legislature by the People's Party remain in force: the Law gags, the labor reform, the Lomce... And we're still alive. Of course, we announce our favorable and enthusiastic vote to this reform because if not, this will look more and more like the title of a movie: Perfect Attraction. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u6	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Montero. His initiative is fully shared by us and we can subscribe to one hundred percent of his intervention. I could add some more consideration - the fruit, if I may, of my experience as a member of this House - in relation to the vetoes. I have never experienced a situation in which, systematically, virtually all the legislative initiatives of the opposition are vetoed by the Government, and I have lived with different minority governments since 1996, with the first government of the People's Party, and then with the governments of the Socialist Party. And there were vetoes? There were, of course, vetoes, but there was a reasonable use of the veto and what there was in no case was, for example, the use of the veto in the budget procedure, by definition, because with that veto the majority does is to liquidate the only constitutional function clearly assigned to the General Courts, which is the drafting of laws and the approval of the budget. That expresses at least two issues. One, that the Government, in parliamentary terms, is very weak. The Government does not have the majority to really rule in this complex. At the same time, he said that the People's Party, as a result of its own weakness, had decided to call into question the functioning of the democratic system. Look at you, in the debate this afternoon, I must inevitably place this attitude of the People's Party against the Constitution, against the democratic system, against the rules that allow this House to function and put it in parallel with what it is applying on the issue of Catalonia. The People's Party has decided that the price that it is willing to pay to defend its ideas, to defend the unity of Spain, to defend the majority that it does not have in this House is the price of freedom, democracy and non-compliance with the Constitution itself; that is the price that it is willing to pay and in the face of this, we must rebel. They want to build a low-cost democracy and do not worry that there is no legislative initiative, do not worry that this House does not legislate, do not worry at all. And, frankly, there I must appeal to the main opposition group. The Socialist Party cannot be an accomplice to this action of the People's Party. The People's Party does not have a majority in this House today, and its responsibility is also to change, once and for all, the majorities that work in this House. The main political problem that the Spanish State has today is the political attitude of the People's Party to the great collective challenges, that of Catalonia and the challenges of democracy itself. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u9	Good afternoon. There is no doubt that the most responsible for introducing this initiative into today's debate is the People's Party, especially the Government and the attitude it is maintaining throughout the entire blockage legislature, abusing its prerogative to question initiatives that may have a budgetary impact. And not only because, in addition to the above, there is the constant blocking of the Bureau, with the majorities formed between the People's Party and Citizens, to a multitude of initiatives that make this House, on many occasions, beyond what can be declarative in PNL, empty of content. The four proposals taken into consideration by our group are still blocked and cannot be discussed. Therefore, we can give citizens many expectations that some things are taken into consideration in a first instance, but after nothing at all. I am afraid that with this initiative to reform the Rules of Procedure the same will happen again: the deadlines will be extended and the dream of the just week after week, month after month will fall asleep to what we will get used to; but I believe that it will come out and go out precisely because of the tiredness of the parliamentary groups to the abuse of the Government on topics as varied as those contained in the report: from the system of judicial fees to the exemption of certain entities, the creation of a fund for compensation to the victims of asbestos or mobility with electric power; we can find examples of absolutely everything. The fact is that, in the end, this attitude undermines the legislative capacity of Parliament and article 66.2 of the Constitution. The Chambers are being prevented from exercising that legislative power and, in fact, are being prevented by the one who has no legislative power but only regulatory power. Therefore, is there a balance of powers today in the daily functioning of the institutions in Spain? I'd say no. And in the meantime, the Constitutional Court continues there, unsolved. But neither can this House stand still; at least it will have to protest, kick and make such initiatives. Why can't the Bureau assess the government's reasons? Do we have to assume that it is precisely the government that values and weighs correctly whether or not an initiative will have budgetary influence? It is not, however, that the Constitutional Court's own jurisprudence insists that the Bureau should assess the Government's reasons because, if we do so as we are doing now, the Bureau's ability to make that assessment will ultimately be nullified. Nor is that other argument used by the Government that it has already occurred on one occasion and that one cannot also be valued as one more. What do you mean, no? Before each of the drafts, initiatives or proposals for legislation, the Bureau has not only the right but also the obligation to assess it and, if this House considers that there is an interpretative abuse by the Government, to proceed. It is not because a majority of groups on the Board of Spokesmen, representing a majority of this House in a weighted vote, have not told them that one initiative or another should not be dealt with. However, this has not been the case on the part of the Bureau, swallowing absolutely everything the Government was asking for. I will not deny that right of the Government to be able to prevent initiatives, but when there are initiatives that, even expressly, point out that in the approved budget it must not have any influence and that, in any case, it will be in the future - said expressly in the text - and yet the Government says that this will affect the budget..., so we could go ad etherum, until 2050. No, if this House takes the initiative and believes that a certain matter needs to be addressed, what is being said is not that it will influence this year's budget, but that the Government has an obligation, in the next year's draft budgets, to introduce it and then this House will tell you whether it is right or wrong; it will change, if necessary, depending on the parliamentary majority. We agree that initiatives need not have an impact on the current budget, but, what about the future? What the Government would have to do in the future is to include them in the budget. I can maintain - I am not going to go into this - certain differences in nuances in the regulation that has been raised, but, although, frankly, this should not have been achieved, it has forced us to adopt the Government's attitude. Our group will therefore vote in favour, although, I am afraid, this is going to sleep the dream of the righteous by extending the deadline for amendments week after week, as is also the proposal to reform the Congressional Rules for the parliamentary control of parliamentary agreements without force of law, which was taken into consideration by this House at the initiative of my group, and with so many other things. You will not see the light, but, of course, in this way no favour will be given to democracy or to the balance of powers or to the system itself, but quite the contrary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u10	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this matter is being raised in these terms, because the groups that have lost all hope of governing some day; others we intend to do so, not only because of that, but because of a minimal political responsibility, we are concerned about the balance between the powers. I will not stop at the arguments of those who do not accept any control over their government where they rule. [[Applauds]] So, I'm gonna try to be pretty clear. The proposal is very important, it affects the Rules of the House, it affects the way in which we interpret the Constitution, it affects a constitutional prerogative of the Government and it affects the institutional balance, the balance of the powers of the State. So go ahead and take this matter with the utmost seriousness. It is a question of limiting the prerogative, as you all know, of article 134.6 of the Constitution, which allows the Government to veto initiatives that involve an increase in credit or a decrease in income. Does this therefore affect Parliament's legislative capacity? Yes, Mrs Montero, it does, indeed. So I understand that it is important, I understand that it affects and I understand that the prerogative is constitutional, what we would like is for the need to understand the need to maximize the balance; that is, we can propose to change the Constitution, in which case the reform of the Constitution is the right way, or without the reform of the Constitution we can propose the greatest possible balance, safeguard the legislative function to the maximum and at the same time maintain the prerogative of the Government that is there and, while it is there, we must take it into account. Are you there for a whim? It is not there either for a whim, it is there because ultimately the President of the Government is elected from this House and the most important law he makes in the exercise are the budgets, and if the legislative initiatives were to go ahead affecting the budgets, it would not make much sense for us to put confidence in a person who is to lead the government action by applying that most important law in each exercise. Your Honor, in addition to this purely logical issue, there are two issues, two reasons I want to explain to you. Firstly, the impertinence - the impertinence in the legal sense - of the proposal and, secondly, the underlying reasons for the rejection. Why is he impertinent now? Because we are waiting for the Constitutional Court to rule on this. In other words, the Constitutional Court, which is obviously the highest interpreter of the Constitution, is called upon to resolve when, how, how, how, the prerogative is lifted, the government's budgetary veto is lifted. As long as the Constitutional Court has not ruled on the points I am going to say to you now, but has not ruled on those occasions on which we too have agreed to lift that veto, because we have done so and I will now remind you of that, is it the right time to give positive answers in the Rules of Procedure without waiting for what we have been told to the Constitutional Court when we all raised this question of powers? I personally don't see it that way. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you, before we move on to the substantive issues, that you, we and the Socialist Party have twice lifted the government's vetoes. One had to do with the paralysis of the Lomce and the other with a partial revision of the labour reform. In both cases we understand - I speak for ourselves alone - that there were the assumptions that the Constitutional Court does consider inadequate, that is, that they are beyond the prerogative, that they are irrational or arbitrary. It seemed to us that it was arbitrary, it seemed to us that neither of the two cases concerned the Rules of Procedure and, therefore, it was arbitrary. I was talking to him about fundamentals, and we have them, too. The purpose of his proposal is to limit the prerogative of the Government, by giving the Bureau of Congress powers that far exceed those it has to introduce - and I quote literally - to examine and value, that is, that the Bureau examine and value, the formal requirements as a motivation provided by the Government to decide whether it accepts its disagreement or opposes it. In other words, the Bureau would assess whether an article of the Constitution could be applied or not, which would be to give the Bureau functions that would completely exceed its task. I do not say that, as the House's lawyers say, when they have argued that control by the Bureau must be exceptional and limited in the terms of Constitutional Court judgment 242/2006 to arbitrary or manifestly unreasonable decisions, as I said. It seems to us that this limitation imposed by the Constitutional Court leaves the government prerogative in a state acceptable to the quest for balance. As time runs out, let me remind you that during the IX Legislature President Zapatero used this prerogative twenty-two times instead of addressing the proposer or the proposer group. Therefore, when you govern you do what you think you have to do, even when it comes to redressing the labour discrimination suffered by women during the Franco dictatorship, note, which is one of the cases. Even in these cases you consider: this affects budgets in some way and we will therefore have to veto it. It is all very well, but I hope coherence, I hope that a party will have the same logic in the government and in the opposition in those issues that have nothing to do with ideological positions, but with something as serious in the institutional world as the powers that the Bureau of a Parliament has and the prerogatives that the Constitution gives to the executive branch. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u12	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ciscar Casabán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative before us, defended in this rostrum by Mrs Montero, has to do with the amendment of Rules 111 and 126 of the Rules of Procedure concerning the procedure for the processing of the Government's power to oppose the admission of proposals for legislation and amendments for budgetary reasons. This power of the Government has its constitutional basis in article 134.6 of the Spanish Constitution, which provides that any proposal or amendment that entails an increase in appropriations or a decrease in budgetary revenue shall require the Government's consent for its processing. The proposal seeks to amend the above-mentioned articles primarily to include that the non-conformity to the processing of a proposal for a law must be communicated expressly, sufficiently reasoned and referred to solely and exclusively to the current budget year. Both article 134.6 of the Constitution and articles 126 and 111 of the Rules of Procedure are now more than thirty-five years old and have never been the subject of a dispute until this legislature. One wonders how in thirty-five years there has been no initiative to amend these articles of the Regulation and is now being considered. Well, it's pretty obvious. Because, even though Mr Girauta in his speech has spoken of twenty-two vetoes in four years, in just over a year we have forty-six. [[Applauds]] Something must be happening, therefore, in that respect. If anyone had put forward this proposal in previous years, very few would have considered it necessary - not even this amendment proposal appears in the various studies that had begun at the time for the reform of the Rules - but in this legislature we consider it a timely initiative, because, as I say, during the same one forty-six times the Government has exercised the veto, thirty-four corresponding to initiatives of the parliamentary groups and twelve to initiatives of the autonomous communities. Therefore, 25% of the initiatives put forward by the parliamentary groups in this House have been vetoed by the government and 70% of the initiatives of the autonomous communities. This is the first difference in relation to previous legislatures that we can contemplate: the disproportionate use by the Government of that constitutional power, which we in no way discuss, but we believe that it must be subject to the corresponding budgetary exercise and not subject to the arbitrariness of the wishes that the Government itself has. The second is that, despite the fact that at the beginning of the legislature the Bureau of the House agreed on two proposals for legislation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on suspension of the Lomce calendar and on amendment of article 42 of the Workers' Statute, to reject the opposition of the Government, believing that it was not objectively or sufficiently justified, from the time of the investiture it has not again questioned, or even considered, the justification of the vetoes of the Executive, accepting each and every one of them by the majority of the Bureau, renouncing to exercise a function which corresponds, that of qualification to ask for further arguments, reasoning, reports, something that justifies the veto of the Government and, if necessary, to oppose the veto of the Government leaving the process. It can be concluded from the record in this Chamber of the Government's vetoes since 1982 that, given the opposition of the Government, the Bureau had been exercising the function of qualification, in most cases accepting the Government's criterion, but also requesting the Executive in other cases additional information to endorse its criterion and, finally, in some cases not accepting that criterion and deciding on the continuation of the processing of proposals, that is, the Bureau had exercised the function assigned to it by the rules, considering not only the fulfilment of the formal requirements by the Government, but also the motivation provided by the Government, whether it was objective or sufficient to be admitted and to prevent the processing. This is the second difference from what happened before. The Bureau or, rather, the majority in the Bureau has been taking the decision to endorse each and every veto put forward by the Government to the various initiatives, which have acquired the greatest number at any time of legislatures that we contemplate and, in particular, during the time in which we are in the legislature; and this, despite the fact that the services of the House have informed on 28 November 2016 that this governmental faculty is constrained by the current fiscal year and that it must be exercised in an explicit and sufficiently motivated manner. As noted in the above-mentioned report, neither the Executive can oppose the processing of legislative initiatives in an unfounded or unmotivated manner, nor can the Bureau circumvent its constitutional and regulatory obligation that its decisions, in addition to being in conformity with the legal order, be reasoned and reasonable. We are therefore at a time when the attitude of the Government is absolutely conditioning the legislative capacity of the Courts to conform the Government with its content. If the Government is comfortable with the initiative, go ahead; if not, it is threatened or determined by the veto. We see, therefore, that arbitrariness in these matters should not be allowed as provided for in the Constitution itself in its Article 9.3 as regards the performance of the public authorities. I would like to recall that today we have witnessed a final veto of the Government so far accepted this morning by the Bureau of the House and that it has to do with - in case something was missing -...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u14	Your Honor, you have to finish because you have exceeded your time by a long time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u15	I'm done, Madam President. ... with the proposed law on the effects of access and maintenance on the receipt of social security pensions in its non-contributory form, trying to remove a pension of 380 euros to a person living with his sister in a residence because he considers the unit of domicile. In the face of this, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has put forward a proposal to resolve this problem, it finds itself with the veto and announces here that the Socialist Parliamentary Group will appeal to the Bureau and, if necessary, to the Constitutional Court for the resolution of this point. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u16	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Borrego Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u17	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group is going to vote no. I mean entry without complexes and clearly. We will vote that it is not because this reform of the Rules of Procedure, as it is proposed, involves an amendment of the covert Constitution without the proper channels and a very clear attack on the separation of powers. [[Laughter]] What you have presented is not democracy, as you have said, nor respect for Parliament. It is going - so that we understand each other - to interfere in the executive power from Congress, to try that it is not the Constitutional Court that resolves the conflicts between powers, but that it is done from Congress and, even more so, from the Bureau with the majority that it has at every moment. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, this initiative concerns the capacity of the Executive to veto initiatives and, once vetoed, it is the Bureau that has to decide whether or not the Constitutional Court is competent. As you said, Mrs Montero, democracies and this democracy have three clearly separate powers. This is studied in the first year of law or any other career or in the first year of baccalaureate, but in the second year it is studied that the budgetary initiative is the government's and the veto affects the budgetary initiative, which is what we are debating here today. [[Applauds]] There are three clear powers and you know it better than anyone: to create laws, the Legislature; to rule the country according to laws, the Executive; and to watch over everyone without exception to comply with the laws, the Judiciary. All laws must respect the constitutional framework, which is the basis of legality in a democratic society, and our Constitution reflects the non-conformity in order to ensure that parliamentary initiatives are not conducted for strictly budgetary reasons, by entailing an increase in expenditure or a decrease in income. We are not talking about a political disagreement - he is mistaken - but objective because of the budget. The budget has a special drafting process, and during the procedure we can all put forward the amendments that we consider appropriate, it is clear, provided that the principle of low and high is respected; something that many Members in the last budget did not know how to do. The initiatives that can have effect are those that are basically just an amendment to an already approved budget, which is an incongruity. And this has not only been done in this People's Party government legislature, it has been done in all legislatures and in all autonomous governments. In the 9th Legislature, the socialist government - here one figure has been given; I have another - the government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero put almost a hundred vetoes. The initiatives that have been put forward during this parliamentary term by the opposition would have involved spending more than €80 billion. As you will understand, this affects public accounts, the deficit target and budgetary stability in a significant way. What if one of these initiatives is approved? How does it come about? What game? For this reason, our Constitution contains article 134.6, which does not give the executive power over the legislature, but tries to make public accounts sound. On the other hand, we are talking about who resolves conflicts between powers, between one organ and another. Who's leading them? The Constitutional Court does not have to dismiss them from the Bureau of Congress. That is why we have the Constitutional Court, and this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure leaves the resolution of the conflict to Congress, as has been said before, and turns the Bureau into a judge and in part. What if the Bureau is wrong? What if that initiative has a budgetary impact? Who will be responsible? All members of the Bureau? The one who votes in favour or the one who votes against? Or are the accounts of the political groups or political parties that have adopted this measure? Who will be responsible for the budgetary impact of this approved measure? Parliament or Members cannot, on the basis of votes, do what we want. Everything must be done according to the legal framework. We are representatives of the citizens who have elected us, within a legal framework for us to defend that framework. That and not another is the reason to swear or promise the Constitution. If that were exercised elsewhere, we wouldn't have the troubles we're now immersed in. If you skip the legal framework, you are no longer capable or worthy of your position and, therefore, you must lose the condition. Why am I saying all this? Because this proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure aims to eliminate the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, to resolve conflicts between powers, by bypassing the functions and the constitutional framework and, in the end, by assigning to the Parliament functions of the Executive again bypassing the Constitution. At the moment, as the spokesman for the Citizens' Group has said, the Constitutional Court is already studying two conflicts of powers between the Executive and the Legislature as a result of the admission to procedure by the Bureau of two proposals for law... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u19	... on which the Government had expressed its disagreement. Shouldn't we wait until the Constitutional Court is resolved? In my opinion and that of my group, yes. Or perhaps what we should do is to reform the Rules so that all legislative proposals are accompanied by a memoir that assesses their economic impact, as is regulated in the Rules of the Senate? This group is going to reject this proposal, and the rest of the groups should also do so, because this initiative can mean wasting the government - that is what it wants - but I do not think it is a very serious option to support an initiative just to wear down the government, even for those who think that budgetary balance does not matter. It can be an option for those who think politics is theatre, that politics are the numbers that are mounted in this House or that the scenes are more important than reality and that, therefore, cheating does not matter. It's an option for those who think that trampling on the Constitution doesn't matter either. My group will vote that not because it believes in the rule of law, because my colleagues believe that the separation of powers is basic, that they represent the citizens, that they represent this House and that they respect this rostrum, both in form and in substance, because you, Mrs Montero, with your way of speaking, with your way of shouting, if you want, in this rostrum, you have... [[Laughter]] I think it's very good that you laughed, but your way of screaming has left you in evidence. He spoke of a proposal to raise the inter-professional minimum wage. And that doesn't have a budget impact? It does have a budgetary impact, of course. [[Applauds]] My group is worth more the principles of constitutional respect than sticking well to be with the majority and saying frivolously that we will already change it during its processing and that we will turn it around. Mrs Montero, I think you want to jump to the Constitutional Court, you want to skip the separation of powers, and this House has to work according to what the Constitution proposes to us, the government has to work according to the Constitution and the judiciary has to work according to the Constitution. If we all respected the Constitution, we wouldn't be where we are. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u20	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u21	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Organic Amendment of Organic Law 6/1985 of 1 July of the Judiciary, partial reform of the permit and license regime. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Moro Almaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. With this proposal for an organic law, which I have the honour to present on behalf of my parliamentary group, we are submitting to this House for consideration a regulatory amendment to the Organic Law on the Judiciary, which seeks essentially to restore the conditions for permits and licences that existed prior to the economic crisis, both with regard to judges and magistrates and by extension to members of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the lawyers of the Administration of Justice and the staff of the Administration of Justice in all that they have not recovered so far. This proposed organic law also aims to equalize the regulation of paternity leave, in particular as regards its duration, thus assuming the same criterion for the four-week period of enjoyment as has been generally established in the Basic Staff Regulations. To this end, the proposal for a law amends Article 371 (1), Article 373 (2), (4) and (6), Article 503 (1), and there is a legal derogation from Article 373 (8). As you see, a technical, but necessary, justice issue. It is necessary and just because it refers to the public servants of the Judiciary and the Administration of Justice who, during the years of the crisis, like so many other public servants, have diminished their rights in order to comply with those measures that we were asked to contribute to the inexcusable achievement of the objective of budgetary stability. And I say that it is necessary and just because it makes no sense to keep it in time waiting for a deeper, more extensive amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary - which can undoubtedly be produced in the near future depending on the conclusions reached in this House by the Sub-Commission for a national justice strategy - when these issues have already been partly recovered by officials or public servants of the General Administration of the State and also partly by the corresponding referrals by some of these persons only with regard to some rights, such as the lawyers of the Administration of Justice or the staff of the Administration of Justice, although I insist only with regard to some permissions and not for the rest. After a legislature that we may consider to have failed, since the reform of Royal Decree-Law 10/2015 of 11 September, which modified some of those measures that had led to the decrease, the cut-off - as you want - of some of the rights of each of the officials, also of the Administration of Justice, to expect would mean further delaying and opening up that gap that occurs between some public servants and others. That is why this parliamentary group, which supports the Government, in accordance with what the Government is doing in direct and immediate communication, in direct and immediate dialogue with the most representative trade unions and with the trade unions in general, with the various agreements adopted and with the associations in relation to those professionals who cannot be, according to our Constitution, trade unions, believe that no longer should be expected and that we should use our legislative initiative to obtain this recognition as quickly as possible and return to the pre-crisis situation. My group and the Government have always said that the provisional conditions in a national emergency situation should be re-established when the conditions are being changed, and we have been doing so, as the Government has been fulfilling and specifically in the area of justice, but with one difference, and that some of the measures are contained in rules included in the Organic Law of the Judiciary and they are unable to reach that amendment of 2015. This commitment to improve the situation of justice since the recognition of the best rights for its staff, from the best professional situations, the increase of the plant, the increase of the staff, has become clear since the agreement adopted with the main trade union associations of 18 December 2015, which incorporated this commitment, which is now part of this proposed law. In addition, agreements as important as the one of 5 October 2017 have been transferred in those aspects that allow for greater stability in the future of the staff by decreasing the interinity index or as that agreement in general for public employment of 29 March 2017. That is why - I insist - it is a necessary change, which is in contradiction with what I have read out there that some representatives point out that it is demagogic. Gentlemen, what is necessary cannot be demagogic. This is a necessary change, and I am convinced that all the groups represented in this House believe so and that they will therefore receive the approval, the approval, in order to be able to deal with it properly. This will allow them, and I will not tire them with the details of the type of permits - on their own matters, by seniority, that they have a different treatment both in the case of judges, judges and prosecutors as well as in the case of the staff of the Administration of Justice in relation to the staff of the General Administration of the State -, not the equivalence but the recognition of the previous situation, that they already had before the crisis; but, as I told them, not only in this matter, not only in the permits for private matters or by seniority in the body, the intention is to amend the Organic Law of the Judiciary in the above-mentioned articles, but also to recognize here some of those rules that in the Staff Regulations allow a better reconciliation of personal, family and work life, as is the case of the paternity permit of four weeks. And what is done with the amendment of article 373, sixth paragraph, of the Organic Law of the Judiciary is precisely the equivalence to that proposal for extension that was already made by Law 9/2009 of 6 October. In addition to this amendment, and to conclude with the reference to the central aspects of the proposed law, we also intend to adapt the terms, the budgets for child protection that are linked to the corresponding norms of the Organic Law of the Judiciary to the Law 26/2015 of 28 July on Amendment of the Child Protection System. In short, and as you see, this is a coherent proposal, which in no way alters our commitments to reach the maximum consensus on those central aspects that we believe should formulate a national justice strategy in the area of both better resources and greater professionalization and strengthening the independence of the judiciary. That lies in our work, in our conclusions and in the impetus that we have given here to a change in this direction. This proposal responds, as you see, to those commitments made regularly and to that level of commitment which I believe you all have but which of course has the People's Parliamentary Group to ensure that our responsibilities, circumstances, parliamentary situations or situations resulting from a government in office do not harm some of the public servants who have in their hands the defence of the rights and freedoms of all and who have suffered as many Spaniards at the stage of economic crisis. But if others have recovered - and speak to them from here not only a public servant as a deputy, but a public official - I think it is welcome that they also have that recovery. As a union said a few days ago in the Committee on Justice, I don't care who gives the legislative impetus. This has to come and it has to come soon. Well, we believe that the legislative impetus of all groups, including the one supporting the Government, must always be respected, must be maintained, and if it is also a matter of general interest or of public servants, it must be accompanied, with the qualifications to be carried out, by the support of all parliamentary groups who believe that all these professionals should have the best conditions for their best work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are now debating has a fund of interest, but it is accompanied by music that we do not like, because it talks about permits and licenses as if we were referring to prebends, privileges that can be given or removed, can be increased or reduced gracefully. I think that with this music we would be offering citizens a very wrong message about where the permissions and licenses regime of the staff serving the Justice Administration should go. In short, for this staff and for any staff, the important thing is to contribute to vocational training, to personal construction and to the necessary reconciliation of work and family life, and all of this being very clear that there is also a great gender bias in the administration of justice that must be addressed already, because this is what is making women bear the worst part in terms of their professional qualification. That is where we must put our main efforts. I will give you some data from the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary for the year 2015, which we have been able to examine in this House. In that report, we see that, for example, 82.2% of the licences applied for to attend to their own affairs without the right to pay have been applied for by women. When we talk about study licenses, things change. If they are study licenses, in Spain almost 55% ask for them men, and if we talk about studies abroad, men represent 73.2% among licence applicants. Conclusion, women still have little to do with studies within the judiciary, and this is an issue that we must address. But there's more. It turns out that if we look at the participants in the International Relations Service, we see that only 37.6% are women, and when we talk about voluntary child-care surpluses we have 20 women and zero men. Instead, when we go to good things - the commission of services, for example - we have 150 men versus only 66 women. For us, therefore, it is important that when we talk about licenses, permits, let us not forget the clearly instrumental role they play and, of course, if this is not done, it seems - and I am going back to what I said earlier - that the music we are hearing rather refers to the fact that at this time we want to content the members of the judiciary by patting them on the back by increasing the licenses that have to really get into the bottom of the solution of the important problem that we have in order to achieve a true equality in formation, in promotion, in conciliation, also within the judiciary. For this reason, Compromís is not going to support this proposal for a law; we are going to abstain and, if it goes ahead, in due course we will make the necessary amendments to try to direct it in the direction I have pointed out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor for the same group. [[Denial]] Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u26	Thank you very much, President. We are presented with a proposal for a law reforming the Organic Law of the Judiciary to recover the social rights of judges and judges and staff in the service of the Administration of Justice, who suffered a cut in 2012 on the occasion of measures taken for the efficiency and containment of public expenditure. The previous situation with regard to leave and leave of judges and judges and staff in the service of the Administration of Justice is now being remedied, as has been done with other staff in the service of the Administration. In this way the lost days corresponding to the antiquity in the service are recovered, being able to reach up to four according to the antiquity. The days that existed prior to 2012 were also recovered for individual cases, recovering up to thirteen annual days, which together with the current five would give a total of eighteen annual days. Paternity leave is also substantially improved, as a different permit from a shared birth leave, from fifteen days to four weeks, equivalent to the period of enjoyment of EBEP staff. Lastly, as far as judges and magistrates are concerned, they are kept for leave and leave purposes for adoption to pre-adoptive care, in compliance with the Child and Adolescent Protection Act. With regard to staff in the service of the Administration of Justice, the wording of article 503.1 that existed before 2012 was restored so that improvements in staff in the service of the Administration of Justice could be automatically transferred to the scope of the Administration of Justice, with the exception of days in respect of particular matters which would have the duration of nine days. Our parliamentary group will support the consideration of this proposal as it comes to replenish social rights cut back in 2012 and we will also support the proposal as a common demand of the four judicial associations, circumstances which allow us to separate ourselves from the criterion of rejection that we have sustained in the face of proposed reforms in the field of the administration of justice until the work on a strategy for justice has been completed, currently being drawn up in a subcommittee within the Committee on Justice. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Group brings us today a proposal for a law amending Organic Law 6/1985, Organic Law of the Judiciary, which consists of a single article. Last week he brought us a proposal for a law amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which was also a technical amendment and which also contained a single article. Both initiatives seek to correct errors or actions by the Government. Today we intend to recover the leave and leave regime of our judges and magistrates, prosecutors, lawyers and staff at the service of the Administration of Justice. Last week we wanted to change the composition of the Free Justice Commissions, since they cannot normally be celebrated in some territories due to an unforced error, as would be said in tennis, committed in Law 45/2015. Why do I compare both initiatives? Because last week the self-called left-wing groups voted against and the initiative did not prosper, so I'm curious to see what happens to today's vote. Socialists, ladies and gentlemen of the people, last week, after very hard speeches, you wanted to give a vote of punishment to the People's Group and to the only ones who punished the applicants for free legal aid, to hundreds of applicants whose files, whose recognition of the right will be delayed for several weeks because of their fault. You have harmed the most disadvantaged. [[Applauds]] But today we are talking about our judges and magistrates and about recovering lost labour rights. From Mrs Robles's PSOE I hope more understanding with her colleagues than they had with the applicants for free justice; instead, from her confederate ladies and gentlemen I do not know what to expect today really. Now that a new division has been invented, monarchists and democrats, in what category are we going to include our judges and prosecutors today? You are so critical of the judicial decisions that, at worst, today surprise us and tell us that this initiative is intended to reward groups that collaborate with the repression of the state in Catalonia or, at best, surprise us with another.Long live the Civil Guard! But in a justice version, you never know. [[Applauds]] Allow me to urge you, ladies and gentlemen - and I therefore express my group's position - to vote in favour of taking into account this amendment to the Organic Law on the Judiciary and not just because it is a matter of recovering labour rights cut by the Government during the crisis. The Members who are part of the Committee on Justice usually meet with the associations of judges, prosecutors, lawyers and workers' unions of the Administration of Justice, and all agree to move to the same point at the beginning of all meetings: the discouragement present in their respective collectives; the discouragement that has been taking place for some years and is being established among our judges, judges, prosecutors, lawyers and officials. We are discouraged by the burden of work that our courts accumulate, we are discouraged by the precarious material and human means with which they work, we are discouraged by the fact that their professional careers give way to the posts of free designation and do not give priority to merit and capacity, we are discouraged by the fact that their daily work and social prestige are questioned every time the news shows the interference of the executive power in the judiciary. In view of this, a reform is proposed today which aims to help alleviate this discouragement, albeit in a minimal way, in a small part, by allowing them to reconcile. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group will therefore vote in favour, without prejudice to pointing out that there is a long way to go, and we therefore urge this House to support all initiatives that we will include in this national justice strategy in this regard, especially merit and capacity as guiding principles of professional careers and above all measures that contribute to strengthening the independence of the judiciary. Finally, I would like to address these groups, judges, prosecutors, lawyers, all the staff at the service of the Administration of Justice, whose representatives are surely following this debate. This is most likely to be taken into consideration today, but remember that all groups that support them today and instead vote against the State's General Budgets will be fooling them because much of this reform, if the State's General Budgets are not approved, will be on wet paper. There is no point in supporting today that the new improvements that affect the reconciliation of family and work life move immediately to the scope of the Administration of Justice and, however, vote against the budgets, because today they will be patting them on the back but tomorrow they will be stealing the possibility of enjoying those five weeks of paternity leave that citizens have obtained in the 2018 budgets. [[Applauds]] They will be depriving them of the tax cuts and subsidies for all those families with children from zero to three years, subsidies for the children's schools that we have negotiated and which, logically, also benefit the families of civil servants. They will also be preventing the implementation of the shock plan that we have negotiated with the Government to increase the number of judges and prosecutors. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, - especially ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group - if you are going to vote in favour of this initiative, for consistency, allow the general budgets of the State to move forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u29	Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u30	Pick up where we are. Good afternoon. The truth is that the People's Party is bringing us some very interesting debates. If last Tuesday we reached splendid dialectic quotas talking about whether the officials of the Committee on Free Justice had to be from Group A or Group A1, we are now going to talk nothing less than about the moscows and those paid permits which, if we remember, were given to the judges, the prosecutors, etc., in exchange for not raising their salary and which is the model that is now intended to perpetuate. But anyway, you took them off and you put them on. You took them out in 2012 with that fantastic excuse from the crisis, which involved cutting workers' and civil servants' labour rights - and at that time it is not that you make a great dialectical or argumentative effort beyond the absolute majority with which you imposed things - and you put them now. And in this very interesting debate, we must read your explanatory statement - the spokesman for the People's Party has said - is that the economy has improved. If the economy has improved - and we are going to assume for dialectical purposes that all this was so - we would have to assume that this situation that you have just raised with regard to the judges, prosecutors and justice officials themselves, who have been the poor sisters in the budget always, will have a cost. But you have not bothered to say what the cost of these measures is because if you had any kind of cost, it would logically be - in view of the approach that the People's Group is doing to date and with what Mrs Montero has already said to you, which I do not know if you have heard - that you were to take this law for granted because it will have an impact on a budget increase. As you have already vetoed forty-four laws that you have brought to this Parliament by saying this, I do not know how you will get out of this situation. Of course, I'm quite curious about it. Within the strategy that you are following, it is not reasonable that you will do this, but someone has to assume that these measures will actually have a cost. And what cost are they going to have? Because if these officials, these judges, these prosecutors, take these permits logically they are going to be in their offices, that is, in the public service, less time; and if they are less time, it turns out that someone has to replace them; and if someone has to replace them, we have to understand that either you are going to call up oppositions - we return to the cost - and you are going to bring more judges and prosecutors to a country that is far below the European average - we are talking about twelve judges per 100,000 inhabitants in Spain, while in Europe we are talking about twenty-one - or the reverse of the measures that you bring us, you are going to bring in more substitute judges, which is also what they cut with the crisis, if you remember. Because, if not, we're going to have to understand that they're telling the judges that they're going to be able to get permits, but they're going to have to ask a favor, a favor from the judge next door to do the most urgent things that they've got stuck in that office. And since we know that many of Spain's judges and prosecutors are responsible people, in the end, they will not get the permits so that they will not unravel the work of the office and, therefore, these measures will remain exactly on the paper, but by the very practical essence that they will have no connection with reality. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u31	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u32	Are the judges really asking for this, or are they asking that their working conditions be dignified, that they be given more material and personal means, that they be given screens, that they be given access to the electronic file under decent conditions, so that what was once costing them ten minutes does not cost them now forty or fifty? [[Applauds]] We have all heard what the demands of the workers of Justice are and, of course, none of them went on this issue of permits. Therefore, if you say that it is at zero cost, this is simply a scam, a trap for the workers of the Administration of Justice, who are actually going to have to do the same either take the permits or not take the permits; it is a trap for the citizenry, who is going to see how it is given a lower quality justice as a public service; it is a trap for certain autonomous communities, who are going to have to pay that cost of the officials they put in. In short, it is also a trap for this Parliament. Why? Because if we and we are in a subcommittee for the national pact of justice and we are saying - we have heard that from you and the citizens and the ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE - that we are going to see what priorities are those of justice, perhaps the highest priorities were these others that I have just commented on and not the return of these permits. However, and already responding to the curiosity of Citizens, we are not going to vote against. We are always in favour of the return of the rights of those unjustly deprived by the People's Party of workers, public officials in this case. Of course, if it has not been explained before, at least now that it is returned, but that it really is returned, seriously, and that we do not do what we always do, that is to put things on paper to save in this case a problem of the failed Minister Catalá, who saw how in August we heard the fructu of the robes that were already beginning to raise disobediences - and that is that neither judges nor prosecutors are characterized by being especially uplifted - because they were absolutely uncomfortable and fed up and fed up with the working conditions with which every day they have to raise the justice of this country and give service to the citizenry. Therefore, we are not voting against, of course not, but we are also not going to participate in an initiative that only gives oxygen to a government in crisis, with an absolutely failed minister whose main zero paper strategy makes absolutely water everywhere and which of course cannot defraud citizens with such initiatives. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Campo Moreno has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We are considering a bill by the People's Group to reinstate, as we have heard on many occasions this afternoon, permits, holidays and licences from the justice sector, judges, prosecutors, lawyers from the Justice Administration and other staff. Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to allow me a small leave, I don't know if it is the hours when I prepared this speech, the hours when we discussed it or the very peculiar subjects that we discussed, but the truth is that strange things came to my mind, the Gospel of Matthew about the whitened tombs and the Pharisees came to my mind. Yes, Mrs. Moro, I know you're laughing, but it's true, I think we're talking about a proposition that's genuinely glittering on the outside but with a certain hypocritical tuff on the inside. [[Applauds]] We have seen that what is intended is to return something that already existed, but being Minister Gallardón and following the guidelines of the Public Service - and I think I quote textually the explanatory statement of Law 8/2012 - this type of vacation and permits are suppressed because they beat the country at a time of crisis - I close the quotes -. Now, at a time - at least in macroeconomic terms - of overcoming the crisis, we are trying to have a gesture with the sector, but I do not think that this is what the sector is demanding or what citizens' justice deserves. Perhaps this proposal is more connected with the words of the President of the Supreme Court and of the General Council of the Judiciary at the opening of the judicial year, where it was put at the head of the demonstrations of the four judicial associations claiming that it is already right to a situation of justice in the ICU; it is already good for microsurgery. The proposal now before us has some very specific aspects which have already been described but which, to recall some points, are very simple: a single article, amending three fundamental precepts: 371.1, i.e. leave for judges, which is no more than the twenty-two working days with a package up to twenty-six depending on the age; 373.2, 4 and 6, the first relating to the leave of judges, maternity leave, to which the guards are assimilated for the purposes of adoption and reception, three-day leave and paternity leave last, in the sixth paragraph, at four weeks. A reference is made to 503, which establishes the right of staff members to permits in relation to those established for officials of the General Administration of the State, without prejudice to the nine-day period, which is the only exception. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this on some occasion, this is not the right way to do politics. Mrs Moro, I listened to you a moment ago, you know that you deserve the greatest of professional respect and personal consideration, but your proposal, that of your parliamentary group, is labeled as a great burden of symbolism in the worst sense, call it electoral advantageism or even that which is now so fashionable of goodism. Why am I telling you this? I'd like to explain it by using one's opinion of motivation. Let us see, it is not your parliamentary group that should have brought this proposal to this House, no, it is the government. Why? Because the Government is bound by the laws, and 561 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary states that everything concerning the Organic Law of the Judiciary must be submitted to the General Council of the Judiciary and, therefore, everything concerning also the Statute of Judges and Judges, which we are seeing here. What's going on? That it's better not to ask for the council's report, we won't be opening the melon and we'll get to it. I am not going to talk about the results of the subcommission that can be established for the setting of the strategy. But it is more sin still - using the evangelical terms - it is more sin because with the Law 8 April 2013 you deleted article 109 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, an article that allowed us in parliamentary seat to collect the report before a proposal or an amendment of the General Council of the Judiciary, but you removed it. We therefore have no opportunity to hear such important issues at the General Council of the Judiciary. But I assure you that my parliamentary group will try by whatever method it is, bringing in the judges and how many people are needed, to cover that deficit that you are mocking. I am not going to tell you that if we had done so another parliamentary group would have had the exercise of something we have already heard here, the right of veto, no. When he prepared the notes there were forty-five; one more has fallen since Friday, now there are forty-six: the use of the veto right. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way to do politics. We cannot articulate mechanisms that allow us to avoid the real problem and that is to bring to justice as an effective judicial guardianship, that is, as a fundamental right of every citizen, of the ICU. We have an obligation to do so and, of course, with proposals such as last week's, or as last week's, we do not fix the situation of justice. My group will vote in favour only in the expectation of opening that tailor's drawer. Because, I tell you one thing, they no longer have the legislative majority that allowed them in the X Legislature to legislate at their will. Not now. Do you invite us into your house? We will enter, but do not complain later because we will change them - or at least try - the plumbing, electricity and all the furniture. I tell you more - by ending the Gospel, which may be an element of peace - they are not right even when they rectify. Stop drinking because you preach drinking water but drink wine, and there you won't find us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u35	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the reprobations of the Minister of the Interior, Don Juan Ignacio Zoido Álvarez, and of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Don Alfonso Dastis Quecedo. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Belarra Urteaga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, throughout history there have always been people who have been forced to leave their homes, leaving behind their families, their friends, their land and their country, in short, everything that was daily, warm and familiar to them. Political, religious, ethnic or gender-based persecutions have driven people to flee. However, in recent decades, we have seen how an absolutely uncontrolled and unscrupulous financial capitalism, which has devoted itself to robbing the lands and wealth of the peoples of the South and to systematically polluting the environment, has forced millions of people to flee their homes. Today, refugees, as a result of climate change, are already the largest group of people who are forced to travel. And in the face of this situation, which is the greatest refugee crisis since World War II, there are only two options, the two options that all people and communities that receive people when they have to flee their countries or lands. The first of these options is to help, to welcome, is to open the doors of our homes, as the Syrian people did, for example, when thousands of Iraqis had to flee their country as a result of a war promoted by the United States and in which we too participate. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when all Spanish citizens shouted to them: "No to war!" And you got us into that war too? [[Applauds]] As I told you, welcoming means articulating legal and secure avenues, as, for example, the Mexican ambassador to Lisbon after the Spanish civil war, an ambassador to whom the government of Lázaro Cárdenas gave the necessary freedom of action to save thousands of Spanish exiles fleeing the Franco dictatorship, Spaniards who found their second home in Mexico. If the Government of our country had articulated the possibility of applying for asylum in embassies and consulates from third countries, as we have been demanding for two years, Spain would now look more like Mexico that welcomed María Zambrano. However, with its policies, we look more and more like France that locked us up in concentration camps in Gurs, in Algiers-South-Mer, and in so many others, that France that called us undesirable criminals and foreigners. [[Applauds]] Because that is the other option, to do like France of the 1930s or the European Union of 2017: choose selfishness, to close the doors, to hide and look away. Your choice, Mr. Zoido and Mr. Dastis - who do not honor us with your presence... ah, look!, Mr. Zoido has come: thank you for coming - has been the most absolute contempt for others and a total lack of humanity. You have humiliated our country by failing to meet a reception quota which is minimal and which we accepted two years ago. And from Madrid to Barcelona, from Coruña to Cádiz, from Navarre to Valencia, people have said loud and clear in our country: ongi etorri errefukiatuak; benevitas refuxiadas; volem acollir; we want to welcome. In Spain, Mr Zoido, Mr Dastis, there is a town that you want to welcome and you do not leave it. Hundreds of municipalities of change, of the host network, autonomous communities, have offered reception places. People have organized themselves on solidarity platforms, have gone to Méndez Álvaro station to welcome refugees from Melilla and have travelled to refugee camps in Greece, such as Katsikas. But you have not systematically listened. While our country chose solidarity, which is nothing other than tenderness among peoples, you again chose the option of death at borders, of closing access routes. It is not necessary to look too far back, ministers, this very week we had to regret the death of another person on the border of Melilla. Well, this House is again saying to you today loud and clear: Not on our behalf, ladies and gentlemen; not on our behalf. [[Applauds]] We demand today, in the Congress of Deputies, the reprobation of Mr Zoido and Mr Dastis. We demand their reprobation because the two, in a necessary collaboration, have systematically violated human rights, have failed to comply with the decision of the Council of Europe of 14 September 2015 and have once again put us out of the question of legality. The Minister of the Interior and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have violated what is the very essence of our framework of international law and the values that inspire common coexistence within the European Union. In two years we have fulfilled a humiliating 11% of the welcome commitment we have made. They have had no political will or word, and they themselves have failed with their actions. In the eyes of citizens and in the eyes of all those who defend the rule of law, these ministers are already reprobated. All we need now is for this House to ratify it. We know, however, that this reprobation is not enough; reprobation is only the first step from which it is the only way to restore legality and democracy in our country, which is nothing other than to throw the People's Party away. We must throw it out, ladies and gentlemen, because only then will we be able to build, once and for all, a welcoming country. Worst of all, as has been said in a campaign by civil society organisations, is that you are proud to fail. Mr Zoido and Mr Dastis, you have not only failed to fulfil your obligations and legality, but have also boasted of it and are hiding behind excuses that have proved increasingly pilgrims. To fail, they have proudly hidden behind the nationality criteria, which you know discriminate against refugees from Iraq, Sudan, Nigeria, in breach of the Geneva Convention. They have hidden behind the inflexible reception requirements, bureaucratic obstacles and unjustifiable delays that have prevented the movement of people from Greece and Italy. They have been hiding behind the EU-Turkey agreement, which has made it possible for all those who have arrived in Greece to apply for relocation since its entry into force and which has, as you know, turned the Central Mediterranean into a genuine cemetery. They have hidden behind the alleged incompetence of Greece and Italy, something which the European Commission itself has denied in its last report, in which it states that 50 000 people are trapped in Greece waiting for relocation and that more than 7200 have arrived in Italy. That is its brand Spain, that of illegality, that of a Spain that has been the laboratory and the field of proof of a criminal migration policy; a Spain that has just been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for the hot returns, which are illegal. [[Applauds]] We want to be pioneers in a model of migration management that guarantees legal and secure paths and complies with human rights, and that is that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - and I am telling you this, you are not democrats, you are anti-democratic. [[Applauds]] And we were able to check it out my partner Noelia Vera and I last Friday at the CIE in Algeciras. They force the State Security Forces and Bodies to engage in anti-democratic practices, as they did the other day by preventing two public representatives from moving to an IEC, which has more complaints from the entire State. You do not believe in democracy, and the worst part is that you force others to put themselves also out of the law and out of the rules of the democratic game. All I want, and I want it heartily, is for Spain not to unite its destiny for any longer to the destiny of the People's Party government. So, in the absence of forceful sanctions by the European Commission for non-compliant Member States, we are here today to defend the reproach of the Ministers of the Interior and Foreign Affairs. But we are not fooled: despite the gravity of the actions in which Mr Zoilo and Mr Dastis have taken place, we know that Mr Mariano Rajoy is going to continue to harbour in the Council of Ministers incompetent, corrupt and legal persons. [[Applauds]] That is why there is no choice but to throw them out; that is why we cannot stand another minute of a People's Party government. Today - I am finished, President, thank you - we have to make a fundamental decision, ladies and gentlemen of the citizens, of the Socialist Group, of the Basque Nationalist Party, of the Republican Left and of the Joint Group: how we want them to remember us, how we want them to think of us tomorrow. I want you to say of my country that we strive, that we were not afraid, that we did not get carried away by the siren songs of Mr. García Albiol and his 'Cleaning Badalona'. I want them to say that we were brave...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u37	Mrs. Belarus, you have to finish because you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u38	Thank you. I'm done. I want you to say that we were brave and welcoming, that we opened the doors of our houses; I want you to remember us because we built plural, diverse, mestizo neighborhoods of neighbors who, coming from all over the world, stopped together evictions, that we took together the people of the CIE, that we share, in short, our lives. It's up to you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u39	As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Matute García de Jalón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u40	Good afternoon. Today are brought the reprobations of the ministers Dastis and Zoilo and in Euskal Herria Bildu - it is not going to be any new - we will support them because we believe that the reasons are left, either for those who today bring them here with this reprobation or for any other. Zoilo could be reprimanded for his prison policy, for the fences, for the concertinas, for the Law gag or for the dead in the Strait, and Mr. Dastis for his ineffable interview with the BBC - sufficient reason - or for the use of embassies for his enjoyment, such as that of Ecuador. But, returning to the subject before us today, we ask for your reprobation for what you have not done and for what you have not intended to do. As representatives of the Government of the Spanish State, they pledged to host 17,337 refugees and have hosted 1910. As noted above, they have not reached almost 10% of the number they have committed to host. But they also lie; they lie when they say that there are no applicants because, as has been said, there are more than 10,000 people in Greece waiting. They also lie because they know that more than 20,000 people in the last three years have passed through Spanish territory and you have had no desire to welcome them, even if most of them were Syrians, because what you have intended is for them to go to other countries and leave Spanish territory. Not to mention those who have prevented them from entering through Ceuta and Melilla and the Strait. And they lie because Acnur - not us and us, not the people of Euskal Herria Bildu - has pointed out that 80% of those more than 20 000 - that would meet the quota - could be potential asylum seekers. The hemeroteca is clumsy, but it is present, and you said that by this date you would have fulfilled the quota to which you committed and have not done so. You, who will surely consider yourselves men of word and deep moral and ethical convictions, for what I have seen - decorations to Christs of the Legion on the margin -, what you would have to do, since you have failed to fulfill your word, is leave. But if in any case that is not good for you, you could resign, because if for you the law is so sacred and the fulfillment of the same obliges all and all and justifies articles as aberrant as 155, think that if that article has any sense it has for you and what you would have to do is resign or be ceased. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u41	I have the floor for the same group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, a compromise is an obligation that must be fulfilled. Almost a year ago, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation said in plenary session - I quote textually - that this Government will follow with all determination in a policy of defending human rights and supporting humanitarian causes and refugees. It is true that we have some commitments that we have not achieved, but we must also bear in mind that we have one more year to implement them and I pledge that after that year Spain will comply with those commitments. Well, the situation we have is that this hasn't been the case. That two-year period expired on 26 September and we have failed. I don't know if you'll be ashamed of this, we are ashamed, and so much. From Compromís we will defend the reprobation of a minister who does not comply and who does not act as an interlocutor with the Government to ensure that international agreements that should have binding effects are observed. You, the very ones who are filled with mouths when talking about law enforcement and who give so much importance to metaphysical breaches, should perhaps give more importance to these breaches that have clear consequences: the death of many people, the sufferings of many people and the tearing of many families; but you still get your chest out of this. Shame on you! On the other hand, Minister Dastis, on 21 December, committed himself in plenary session with - I also read literally - a policy that is determined by generosity, solidarity and responsibility. What about generosity, solidarity and responsibility? You, Minister of the Interior, told us that Greece does not have relocable refugees, but we know that this is not the case. You said that NGOs should be made aware that they do not favour irregular immigration. Who should be made aware of human rights and asylum issues? It seems to be a lie, but it is the Government that must be made aware of it, which also practices hot returns. We understand that something else needs to be done. This must be treated as the serious humanitarian crisis that we actually have and, as long as the competent ministers do not act as competent ministers, a reproach must be brought forward in this House. With this I conclude. As I said at the time when we reproach the Minister of Justice, a reform of the Rules of Procedure of this House would be necessary in order for the President of the Government to be obliged to convene an extraordinary plenary session in order to take account of the steps he intends to take with regard to the accused,...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u43	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u44	...because here we're accumulating reprobations...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u45	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u46	...and we lack responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u47	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u48	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u49	Your Honor, when the Presidency tells you that it has to end, the Presidency must be listened to. I am telling you this because, in addition to having exceeded the time of the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have exceeded much more. I would ask you to always attend to the presidency. Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Zoido, I appreciate you having the package to come here. What we think about your management is going to be said to you by Mr Guillaumes - he has already told you a few times - and therefore allow me to focus our vote in favour of disapproval on the absent minister, who has not come to Parliament at the time when his ministerial management, Mr Dastis, is being discussed. A year ago, the new government was appointed, and some of them had to use Google to put the name Dastis and know exactly who this new foreign minister was. But I assure you that this minister is going to go into history, and he is going to do so by exercising precisely non-diplomaticism, by not knowing how to practice nuances, by saying lies, by saying lies in the BBC and by having a cabinet that allows him to tell lies in the BBC; lies like that Spanish education in Catalonia is not allowed. [[Rumors]] Look, who speaks to you was born in 1973, has been educated in a democratic school and I think I am addressing a Castilian whom you, Mr Matarí, who is directly questioning me, can understand. That is why our disapproval is the reprobation of everything that the Podemos Parliamentary Group has raised with regard to its management of refugees, but also, ladies and gentlemen, this capacity to lie in an international environment. The interviewer himself drew the images recorded by the BBC to note that those who spoke of false news, of fake news, were nothing more than the minister of diplomacy; a minister who seems to be in the same temptation as his predecessor to become the minister of Catalonia, when there is North Korea, Brexit, refugees, the European Union or North Africa; a minister whose stupendous silence has only broken for a trip to Ecuador that we still have to clarify and travel everywhere without being known anywhere. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u52	Thank you very much, President. At the plenary session held in this House on 10th of this month, we discussed a motion tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the implementation of the relocation and resettlement commitments for refugees, in accordance with Union decisions adopted in 2015, and at the next session we adopted a number of points urging the Government, among which were not to extinguish the relocation commitments that the Government had failed to fulfil and to revise the criteria for the relocation programme, and in particular those concerning the international protection rate and the enlargement of the list of countries to be included in these programmes. The Government was also urged to implement legal, safe and effective channels, humanitarian corridors, for access to the right of asylum, or eliminate the requirement of co-financing by NGOs engaged in the integration of immigrants. Moreover - and this measure seems to me relevant to the proposal now before us - to activate a table of coordination between the Government and the autonomous communities and municipalities, since these administrations are the recipients in their territorial areas and to a large extent the competitors of the refugees who have arrived through relocation or resettlement. It was also proposed to activate the coordination table to channel the offers that have been made from these territorial administrations to accommodate these people who seek, deserve and are creditors of international protection. We are now being presented with a proposal calling for the reprobation and cessation of two ministers for holding them responsible for the failure of the central government to fulfil its commitments to the Union in the field of refugees. We have to remember that in that motion on relocation and resettlement to the now-proposing parliamentary group, much of its amendments were admitted to it and that it did not raise the objection of any minister, although it certainly did refer to it in a marked way in its turn of taking office. This parliamentary group of the Basque Nationalist Party already showed in that debate that it was evidence that asylum policy was not working properly in Spain. Affirming this was not - nor is it today - demagogic, for the data so testify. The relocation programme completed in September has had a very small degree of effective compliance, 8 % of what is committed, and the actual implementation of the resettlement programme - also completed - is not a receipt, reaching 49 % of what has been agreed with the Union. We also said and said that there is no excuse for the complexity of the procedures and rules governing these programmes, since for all the members of the Union they are the same, with countries with infinitely higher compliance than those of Spain. We also added that not only does relocation and resettlement policy not work in Spain, but asylum policy does not work, apart from the Union's programmes. In Spain, we said, only 1% of the Union's total applications were received, and only thirty-one of every 100 were resolved, with less than fifteen in favour. In Spain there are 76 refugees per million and in Europe there are 702 refugees per million inhabitants. But all this being pointed out, we wonder, is it a measure consistent with what I have said to support now, at this time, the cessation of two ministers? We believe that it is not and, as I have pointed out, we do not think that those breaches in these two members of the Government should be focused for the time being. Non-compliances must be framed in the value crisis in which the Union finds itself in this area with regard to the migration crises which challenge it and which are also political and legal crises for the Union. Political crises because they strain relations between their members - remember the cases of Poland and Hungary - and political crises also because of their domestic dimension; remember the election results in the different countries of the Union, which are being conditioned by the migration issue. The same Union agreements in 2015 to establish resettlement and resettlement programmes were preceded by failed and ultimately reluctant attempts by the Member States, which did not even show unequivocal solidarity with their two partners most affected by these crises, as they were and are Italy and Greece. This is the context in which we are moving in the Union with regard to the migration crises of both refugees and economic migrants, so it is not appropriate to focus without context a responsibility on two ministers, at least for the time being, especially when we believe that it is appropriate to establish a constructive dialogue with the Government of all public and private actors involved in the migration crises and, in particular, for what we are dealing with now, with refugees seeking asylum. We do not believe that the best way to address a dialogue and subsequent agreement on what the State's migration policy should be is to begin by calling for the cessation of two members of the Government. The dialogue should begin with the launch of the Government's coordination table with the autonomous communities and municipalities to channel the needs of refugees to receive and offers to host the autonomous and municipal administrations that have been carrying out over time, all in order to better fulfil our humanitarian, political and legal obligations and commitments. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u53	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Spain does not comply with international refugee treaties, sabotages its own asylum law by not deploying the regulation and disobeys its concrete commitments by accepting less than 11.4% of the refugees it undertook to relocate two years ago. Catalans and Catalans already know this way of acting: they fail to comply with the Statute of Autonomy, boycott transfers and rulings favorable to the Generalitat and disobey their budgetary commitments in investments in Catalonia, as we see every year when calculating the actual liquidations they have made. They're the champions of non-compliance. The government doesn't care about refugees because they don't have empathy, we also know that, we just have to see the percentage of refugees who don't come from the relocation commitments they received in 2016, 3.4% of the 10,250 asylum applications they received. We also know that the Catalans and the Catalans, the inability of the Spanish Government to get into each other's shoes and respond to their legitimate demands, as we have seen in the absence of political proposals to resolve the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain, while we see the humiliating video recorded by some judges singing 'Puigdemont, they will put you in prison, and Trapero, who will be your partner', in an allard of judicial independence that is the antithesis of the separation of powers from the State. The Spanish Government has done Europe's most xenophobic dirty work when it warns its European partners that they will support their hot returns to prevent them from invading the continent. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u55	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u56	A recipe that has already been formalised with the European Union's agreement with Turkey and that has generated more deaths in the Mediterranean and greater insecurity for thousands of people who risk their lives to cross the border through the mafias because they do not have safe routes to access borders and apply for asylum. They do not care, given their reaction; neither the one hundred and fifty deaths in the Tarajal spur between the rubber balls that hit the water and the bodies of the people who tried to reach Spanish territory swimming blindly; nor the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which condemned the hot returns from Spain for the expulsion of two young people from Mali and Côte d'Ivoire in August 2014. Catalans and Catalans already know what it is that they are going through Europe warning of the danger they are in if Catalan Democrats are right when they deny on television from Europe and around the world the beatings of national police or civilian guards that the entire international press saw and recorded directly. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Hala!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u57	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u58	At this point one can only think that the Government of Spain does all this because it has no historical memory, surely because among its ranks there are no cases of parents, mothers or grandparents who had to exile or seek refuge in Europe or America when fleeing Spain after the civil war, who knows, perhaps because they are children, grandchildren or heirs more or less direct to those who won that war. The fact that they have neither the historical memory nor the memory of the Catalans suffer as well when they remind the president of the Generalitat not to end up like the president of the companies, who was shot by the fascist army in Montjuic, the result of a council of war that the People's Party refuses to condemn as null, unjust or invalid. In short, because of non-compliance with laws, sentences and commitments, because we lack the necessary empathy for the people seeking refuge, because we are the students at the worst of the repression on the borders against the refugees and because of their amnesia with fascism, we support the non-law proposal of Unidad Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, although we do not expect them to pay much attention to us, because as Catalans and Catalans we know that theirs is to fail, to beat and to lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u59	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the normal thing in an intervention is to end with an appointment, but I would like to start on this occasion, instead of ending, with one that says: A politician cannot be a cold man. His first obligation is not to become an automaton. You have to remember that each of your decisions affects human beings. Some benefit and others harm. And you must always remember the injured. Adolfo Suárez. I believe that this appointment comes very close to today's intervention because the policies we apply in these matters affect human beings and we cannot be cold politicians, without feelings or not understanding that in the end, behind figures and a budget, there are lives, there are dreams and there are hopes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Citizens, in the agreements that we have reached with you in order to guarantee the investiture at the moment, item 145 - I would like to remind you - said the following: To defend within the European Union a just, responsible and solidarity solution with the refugee crisis in accordance with the commitments made with the European Union; to continue to promote a common policy on migration and asylum that responds to this challenge, with a comprehensive and balanced approach that addresses all aspects, with sufficient and coherent financial and human resources, visible to all citizens and supported by shared solidarity and responsibility. Citizens were not that cold and sentimentless policy, we understood that this was an important part of the agreement, just as at the time we introduced a similar one into the agreement we concluded with the Socialist Party. I said recently that the world was not perfect, but that today the world has its seams about to explode; its economic, social and environmental seams. We have war conflicts, we have terrorism, we have an increase in inequality, we have famines, we have 65.3 million displaced people by mid-2006, a figure that has not occurred since World War II. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have a big problem; a problem that not only affects us but also affects the whole of the planet, in which the United Nations, the European Union and economic and political powers like ours have to live up to. We need changes in productive models; we also need to balance the financial markets and the productive market to generate employment and wealth in our societies, also internal ones. We also need to promote solutions to the problems at hand; we need, as a result, to bring down migrations and also to bring down refugees. We need official development aid in solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, what have we done in Spain and in the European Union during this time? The European Commission has already touched on the fact that 11.4 billion have been allocated to refugees, 75% of all official development assistance. As a result, the money that also belonged to those third countries to which aid has not come has been put as a refugee policy, because it is being allocated here and is being included in something that had to be clearly separated. In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, from 2008 until now, official development aid has fallen by 73.5%. In the 2016 budgets we have been exclusively in 0.21, far from that 0.4 which we have agreed on by the political groups in the Committee on Cooperation and far from that 0.7 idyllic which is aspired to within development policies. We have placed ourselves at twenty-six of twenty-eight, which means that we are far from achieving the optimal degree that an economic and political power like ours must have. How much money has been put into these policies right now? Germany, for the refugee issue, has put $6.2 billion; the United Kingdom, 613; France, 426; Italy, 1650; Holland, 460; Sweden, 824; Norway, 847; Spain, 32 million euros, ladies and gentlemen. We are committed to bringing in 17,337 people and only 1980, 11.4%. In the European Union, which has not met its commitments, they have reached 27 %. Mr Dastis, I cannot tell you anything because you are not present - the truth is that we do not know if you have come to take possession as a minister - and I thank you for being here. His reprobation is being dealt with today. The figures speak for themselves and say that management has been disastrous, very ineffective and far removed from what we had committed to the European Union. In conclusion, Mr President-in-Office - I am not saying anything to the Minister who, when he takes office, we will get to know - I would give advice to the Government of our country. We are committed to ending poverty and hunger in the world by 2030, combating inequalities within countries and building peaceful, just and inclusive societies, protecting human rights and promoting gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls and ensuring lasting protection of the planet and its natural resources. Minister, this is the 2030 Agenda, on which your Government is committed, to fulfilling international commitments to, among other things, fewer displaced persons and fewer refugee problems in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u61	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Elorza González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u62	Good afternoon, aratsalde on. From the outset, the Socialists have the impression that this of the reprobations has not just been taken seriously, it is obvious; not because they proliferate excessively, but because, in the end, when Parliament, the seat of popular sovereignty, approves a reprobation, the next day nothing happens, and this is not normal. In the end, we may put forward a formula to prevent this from continuing to be so. Minister and Mr Dastis - absent - what are we judging here today? In this case, we are judging and censuring the Government for the breach you have acknowledged, Mr Zoido, of an obligation entered into with the European Union. We are here judging and censoring mismanagement because we are not developing our commitments as the Government of Spain, commitments made with the signing of international conventions and treaties. We are here because in a society, in a global world with many uncertainties and with many people who have to travel because of climate or war causes, we are not demonstrating the slightest sensitivity. The Government was not demonstrating that it was humanitarian in its failure to comply with the quota of refugees to which it had committed. In short, we are talking about a violation of human rights, and this is serious, it is not a baladí issue, it is not a small nonsense; we are talking about human lives, as has been stressed. Minister Zoido - forgive me for referring only to you because you are present, which I thank you for, and you know it - do you know what I would have liked? That during these days that have passed since the adoption of the motion of seven points agreed with more groups you would have had the detail, the parliamentary courtesy, if you had sent us a letter or summoned us to a café and told us: of these seven points that you - Parliament - have approved, I pledge to approve these, this cannot be, this one has difficulties, in this we are already... But the answer to the approved motion, what was it? Silence. There you go, something else. In politics - you have also been mayor - dialogue, interaction and relationship with political groups must be given permanently. The Socialists have put forward very well-founded objections. Recently that of Minister Montoro for the indecency of the fiscal amnesty, declared unconstitutional; we have presented the reprobation of Minister Catalá and the Attorney General for his behavior in the investigation of cases of corruption. Corruption, hacienda... We also tried twice to present a reprobation to Minister Wert for how he acted in education, for how little he defended the public school and for the mistakes he made, by the way, in education in Catalonia. We appreciate very much what a reprobation is; therefore, today we are going to support this reprobation, mainly because, in addition to mismanagement, we have not seen enough political will to correct what was happening. It is true that there have been problems - of course there are, we already know the difficulty of management - but we have not seen the reaction, a year ago, to change the rate of selection of the nationalities of people who could arrive in Spain as refugees to be relocated. Honestly, we haven't seen her. Moreover, in this case we are faced with a bad example for Spanish citizens because in Parliament we must project images of education and training in values, and when we leave people forgotten and marginalized in Turkey or in refugee camps in other countries or allow people to play their lives to save the obstacle of the Mediterranean and reach European shores and do not do the least, we deserve a sanction, from ethics and morals, indeed we do. Because we are in politics for something as fundamental as human rights to be respected, even if it is a minimum portion. Of the 17,337 men, women and refugee children committed to bringing them to Spain, we have met 12% and there are people we have disappointed because they were willing, in communities and in city councils, to welcome them, to participate. That's the serious sanction and censorship we're doing here today. If from this Parliament we do not project those values of human rights, solidarity, humanity, coexistence and what a twenty-first-century Government should do, I do not know what we really paint. I'll make you a final recommendation. So that this of the reprobations - if it is approved, if I do not know it - have a meaning, a purpose and a weight why do we not think of approving - to the one who corresponds to it in his day - a norm of rank so that the minister or minister who is reprobated cannot again occupy that position, cannot again be minister or minister? What does a minister who has been repudiated by the majority of Parliament in a serious, formal and reasoned manner do? It's all right now, you're still there. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u63	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreno Palanques has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, everything that is exaggerated is insignificant. Today, by a new formula, by a GNP, we are asking not one but two reprobations of the two ministers. There was a time in this House when a minister was reproached he was concerned; today, the one who begins to worry is the one who is not asked to be reproached. [[Laughter]] However, it is necessary to be very bold to go up to this rostrum to ask for the resignation or cessation of two ministers with a badly done GNP. They talk about two Community directives that are no longer in force; they talk about the extension of legal and safe routes when they already exist - the resettlement programme -; they criticize the 75% criterion of the recognition rate across the European Union or the European Union-Turkey Declaration when they are decisions of the European Union taken unanimously and not of Spain, a statement, by the way, which has reduced the number of deaths in the Eastern Mediterranean from 900 in 2015 to 46 in 2017, which are many, while there are one, there are many. Some of you are radical in this House, but there is nothing more radical than the facts, and the facts are as follows: the Commission's latest report has reduced relocation commitments from 160 000 to 98 255, 54,000 fewer than the Hungarian reserve. I have no time to explain to you what the Hungarian reserve is, but I have time to explain to you that Spain's commitments are not 15,888 but 9323. As of 24 October 2017, 1999 relocations have been carried out; in resettlement, the commitment was 1449 and the national resettlement plans for 2016 and 2017 are 1579. We are working with Acnur at the level of Spain and at the level of Acnur-Turkey in the program one by one and they will all arrive, 100 per cent; in fact, tomorrow they arrive 220 more. Spain is the eighth country in relocations; we lack 8000. They are close to 1221, but Germany lacks 20 000, France lacks 15 000 and Denmark, Hungary, Iceland, Poland and the United Kingdom have not relocated anyone. Therefore, we are not the last. Perhaps that is why the Greek relocation office - the minister has already said - thanked Spain for its insistence on soliciting people, but said that at that time they had no more to meet the requirements. I am not saying that there are no people to relocate, but there are no people who meet the requirements of the European Union. This is the communication from the Greek refugee office; it's not that anyone invents it here when they come up to this rostrum. [[Show a document]] But there's more than just a relocation and resettlement program. Here are people who come every year to seek asylum directly. Do you know how many asked for it in 2016? They asked 23 787; of them, 4200 from Venezuela - we already know, Mrs.Belara, that for you there is no such thing - ; 3100 from Syria directly, without these programs, directly; from Ukraine, 2800, but in what we have in 2017 there are already 25 416. [[Applauds]] In the last three years - and we have not yet finished - it has been 72,500 who have applied for asylum. By the way, Mrs Surra, the best example of this country's immigration policy is that you can be in this House this afternoon defending it. [[Applauds]] The best example. In its recent reports, the Commission has not criticized Spain, it has criticized many countries but not Spain, which continues to comply with its commitments. European policy is inspired precisely by the programme developed during the crisis in 2006 by this comprehensive approach. We're dedicating resources to operations Triton and Sofia as the most. We have contributed to the refugee fund in Turkey not only with our share of 3 billion but with an additional 153 million. The program's over, but we're gonna keep moving. It can be proposed that the solution to all these problems is the cessation of two ministers; it is a brilliant solution, an ingenious solution, but not of any kind of ingenuity, no, no, it is a superlative ingenuity, a XXL ingenuity, an ingenuity with balconies on the street, the father of all the ingenuities. Look, what I'm saying to you, especially to the Lords of Podemos, is that you start working already on positive solutions to solve the problems of this country because it may be that you can storm the heavens, but of course what you cannot do is to keep an entire population that has trusted you deceived for the rest of eternity. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u65	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on Support and Response to the Security Bodies and Forces of the State as Guarantees of the State of Right. [[File number 162/000470]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u66	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning support and support for the State Security Forces and Bodies as guarantors of the rule of law. In defence of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Martín-Toledano Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, supporting and supporting the Civil Guard and the National Police in fulfilling their constitutional obligations, and more so when they act as judicial police, it should be and is a duty of all democrats; it should be a duty of all democrats. To support the State Security Forces and Bodies - National Police and Civil Guard - is also to recognize that we must bet on the increase of their salaries. That is why the Group of the European People's Party has tabled an amendment to this GNP in which, apart from making some technical corrections, we are firmly committed - it is a pride for us as a group because we have worked hard and put a lot of interest and effort into it - and we recognise that it is necessary to equate the salaries of the Civil Guard and the National Police and, at the same time, to equate the salaries of both bodies with those of other police officers. [[Applauds]] That is a commitment that the People's Group acquires in support of the Government from the 2018 budgets and progressively. What we ask of all political groups is that they do not block the approval of the 2018 budgets because in them goes the salary matching of our State Security Forces and Bodies with other police officers. Ladies and gentlemen, condemning the harassment that the Civil Guard and the National Police have suffered in their performance of the judicial orders in the Catalan crisis is also an obligation, a duty of this House, because, of course, there cannot be any justification for insults, harassments, aggressions and coercions to both members of the National Police and the Civil Guard and their families. It cannot be tolerated and we must condemn it. We must also condemn and reproach those who have justified this harassment, and in this House there are political forces that have justified the harassment of the State Security Forces and Bodies, not only the independenceist forces, but also those who are acting as allies of this 'democratic' coup in Catalonia, which is Podemos and its confluences. Evidently, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a campaign of discredit to place the State Security Forces on the target, pointing them as if they were the enemies of the Catalan people, and from that there is a bad experience in the Basque Country that we should not repeat, because to place someone on the target is to dehumanize it, and that is typical of fascist and communist regimes. Therefore, we cannot and must not tolerate it. There has been a campaign of manifest lies, falsehoods and deceptions, total. Some have reported that they have broken their fingers one by one, there are lists of wounded on October 1 and have been shown to be false. The State Security Forces and Corps have been accused of pushing elderly people down stairs or holding children. Nothing further from reality, ladies and gentlemen. What has happened is people, like Ada Colau, who have accused the security forces of the State of sexual assault and no one has yet resigned. That's why you should resign immediately because you haven't even asked for forgiveness. [[Shows a photograph of Doña Ada Colau speaking to the media.-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, violence is never good and must be controlled. There is no need to incite hatred, but if there have been attacks and injuries, those of the State Security Forces and Corpses could also be recognized. Here's a national cop bleeding out of his head 'cause he's been opened. [[Shows a photograph of a wounded national police officer]] Of course, that cannot be said to be peaceful attitudes. In this GNP we also call on all democratic institutions, because of their powers, with proportionality but also with speed, to do their utmost to curb the independence challenge in Catalonia. In fact, the government is already doing so, and so are other institutions, but what I have to tell you is that the goal is to recover the law in Catalonia, to recover the self-government of Catalonia, because those who have put at risk the self-government of Catalonia have been the separatists themselves. They are the greatest enemy of progress and the Catalan people. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the independenceists and their allies have so much abused the lie that even the international press no longer regard them at all. They consider that they have made an unorthodox campaign of lies and that they have an absolutely entrepreneurship victimism. Of course, they have lost all international support. They've never had it, but less have it now. They have lost it from all but one; curiously they have international support: Nicolás Maduro, who supports Catalan independence and his allies from Podemos and its confluences. [[Applauds]] Interestingly, it mixes what happens systematically among those who talk about democracy, but all they want is to use democracy to destroy our democratic system, our Constitution and our coexistence, and they base it on sowing hatred, discord among Spanish citizens. I want to tell you one thing, the Civil Guard and the National Police are very dear to everyone who respects the Constitution and the law in Catalonia. They're very dear. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what I am asking you to do is to return to common sense, return to legality and, of course, vote in favour of this GNP with its amendment to support and support the Civil Guard and the National Police. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u68	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde has the floor in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u69	Pick it up on. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u70	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u71	For years they have tried to sell us an official version of the facts that distorted reality, so they have tried to make believe that police stations and barracks were not tortured, that the State had not participated in the dirty war, that no one was imprisoned for their political ideas or that without violence any project could be defended including independence. All this is false in relation to Euskal Herria and is now repeated in Catalonia. The leaders of ANC and Ómniun are in prison for promoting independence, there are voices in the People's Party that point to a possible illegalization of parties that defend independence, and even pretend to make us believe that since 20 September and mainly on 1 October the harassed, assaulted and harassed have been police and civilian guards and not a Catalan citizen who has shown a civic, peaceful, firm and praiseworthy attitude. That and no other is the reality that, however much you try to manipulate via official version, it will be impossible for you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, as you have a problem: the images of police brutality on 1 October, of excessive and disproportionate action, have turned the world around, prompting all kinds of condemnation reactions, such as the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights or the European Council Commissioner. Of what they have said, they should take note of and promote an independent, impartial and effective investigation into the events of the past few weeks. That is what we propose in our amendment, although we know that it will fall into a broken bag, because you are not interested in the truth of what has happened that leaves you in a bad place and shows you ready to use police brutality for political purposes. Because more and more voices denounce what has happened, such as the twenty-four Nobel Prizes, which, in addition to condemning the scenes of police brutality, have reminded them that in mature democracies, referendums of self-determination have been held without problems. You, on the contrary, try to prevent them using force against a population whose only defence is their own bodies, coming to deny, despite the violence exercised and the evidence of the images, that their performance has left - yes, I will repeat it again, as has been said many times here - 893 wounded. Therefore, I ask you - and with this I finish - to stop manipulating reality. There are more and more people who do not believe their official version, so there are fewer and fewer who support them in Euskal Herria and Catalonia, and so they go: the way of being residual. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The majority political force of the Foral Community of Navarre supports the State Security Forces and Bodies and we also come to this retributive modification of both the Civil Guard and the National Police. Therefore, at the outset, we have our support from the two seats of the Navarro People's Union within the Joint Group. A political vision of the situation we are experiencing. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who organizes any number of numbers cannot present themselves as victims of police repression. I will say this in another way: those who defy the laws, ladies and gentlemen, cannot show that the rights of demonstration or free expression are not respected in Spain. And it is true, of course, that the image that Spain has projected has clearly damaged us, but let us not be hypocrites, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be hypocrites, because the one who caused this is not the State, it is not, and you know it; and the police are to maintain public order. In conclusion, Union del Pueblo Navarro has made public that will support, unless someone fixes it, in the Senate, next Friday - this Friday - the application of article 155, but also let me say the following, two very brief reflections: first, we repudiate any boycott of Catalonia because we do not understand Spain without Catalonia or Catalonia without Spain. And another question, I say with all humility, as spokesman for the Joint Group: in the time that has come for me, we have tried to delay the appointments to the Commission for the modernization of the territory of the autonomous state to achieve from dialogue, mediation and above all from the compromise that the PDECAT is present and we can talk about the future and stop talking about the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u74	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u75	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I prepared this speech right away, some cinematographic comparison came to my mind and the most obvious was Matrix, it seemed that we were living the world backwards, but then, given the arduous nature of the subject, it occurred to me that I could find a more pleasant example. Do you remember dreams of a seducer? The protagonist arrives beaten to the house of his friends who say: How did the fight go? It went very well, I hit them with my face against his fist and then I hit them with my stomach against his knee. It seems that the one who had this PNL in his head maintained more or less this mentality of confusing the one who sticks with the sticker. Now it is no longer the media, but the College of Physicians that speaks of about a thousand medical certificates - they are playing their prestige logically - of people who have been injured. We have a comprehensive Human Rights Watch report, which says the police have gone too far. We have a report from Amnesty International, which gathered information on the ground, saying that the police were out of bounds. We have the request for investigation by the Commissioner of the European Council and we have the request by the Commissioner of the United Nations. Meanwhile, you live in Matrix saying that nothing has happened and that what there are are wounded cops. When we've seen people pushed down stairs, when we've seen people caught by hair, when we've seen cops beat people on their backs with defense, we've seen this and there's over a hundred videos, you're gonna deny it? You live in Matrix. I ended up very briefly with a phrase: To the People's Party, to be Franco does not win anyone. Good afternoon. [[Let's have a round of applause. Rumours. A Member of Parliament: Come on!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u76	Silence! Mr Delgado Ramos has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group is bringing us here today with a GNP - they say - to recognise the work of police and civilian guards and it is curious that those who have never taken into account neither the demands nor the demands of police and civilian guards but rather the opposite, that is, those who have deceived both groups over and over again, say that they are now coming to recognize police and civilian guards. It is an empty PNL of content that is nothing but a toast to the sun and with the sole objective of using it as an alibi to cover its political incompetence over the management of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] That is why we, when we saw this initiative, have set out to work to make this GNP a real recognition for police and civilian guards, to make it a proposal that would lead to a real and effective commitment to police and civilian guards, and we have added three points that I believe the civilian guards would appreciate for you to approve. The first is the immediate readmission within three months of all those civilian guards expelled, retaliated and imprisoned for demanding rights for civilian guards. [[Applauds]] The second, salary equalization in a maximum of three years of Civil Guard and National Police with autonomous police officers, clear commitment, in three years, not when there is money. [[Applauds]] Finally, the Civil Guard's right to trade unionize. Because you come here to say that you love the police and the civilian guards very much, but you have always used, deceived and manipulated the workers of the National Police and the Civil Guard. You have never defended the national police and the civilian guards and I will illustrate it to you with some images to remind you of what you have done for the national police and the civilian guards. [[Report to the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] Here is a photo showing that Felipe González, when he was not yet president, was protesting for demilitarization. [[Shows a sign with two drawings]] Then, as president, he imprisoned the civil guards who asked for trade union rights. Do you know who this gentleman is? [[Show another photograph]] José Morata, sergeant of the Civil Guard, number 1 of his promotion, persecuted, retaliated, imprisoned and expelled from the Civil Guard for demanding rights for the agents. [[Applauds]] That's what you and you used to do. [[Report to the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] I've got more. [[Show another photograph]] This is a demonstration of civilian guards in front of the Ombudsman's headquarters demanding rights that neither you nor you wanted to give them. [[Report to the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] And here they have a demonstration of 25,000 civilian guards asking for equality, the one that Mr Toledo says will now arrive. [[Show another photograph]] And I've got more. [[Continue to show pictures]] This is what the Socialist and People's parties have done: to ban the right of demonstration to civilian guards. That's what they have agreed to, to ban rights. And the last thing the People's Party has brought has been the amendment of the Military Penal Code to tighten its application to police and civilian guards. That's what you've done for these forty years by the civilian guards. If you really want this non-law proposal to be a recognition to police and civilian guards, accept our proposal. A clear, concrete commitment: wage equality in three years between the National Police and the Civil Guard and the autonomous police and no more toast to the sun, no more lies and no more manipulation. Finally, I give you one piece of advice: send the police and the civilian guards who are in Catalonia with their families and their children, which is where they have to be. And take the Piolin and bring in Mr Rajoy and Mr Puigdemont to dialogue, dialogue and dialogue. [[Applauds]] If you want, send him to Corsica, but until you reach an agreement that you don't get off the boat. You'll see how they get along. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u78	Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will speak from the seat because I will be brief in setting out my group's position on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the British, who are practical people, have a saying about crises. They say it with quite irony and much truth: The first step to get out of a hole is to stop digging. However, in our opinion, this proposition digs at full hands. He won't count on our support. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u80	Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and annexes of the PSOE and Citizens, I am beginning to read. Acute myocardial infarction, 30 head trauma, 23 bone fractures, 383 polycontusions, 435 contusions, 50 wounds, 36 lipotomies, 2 conjunctivitis, 3 arrhythmias and 28 anxiety attacks. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u82	Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u83	Do you know what this is, comrades and friends of the PP bench and annexes of the PSOE and Citizens? It is the report of the Department of Health of the Generalitat of Catalonia on the police performance of its military police during the referendum of self-determination on 1 October in Catalonia. They're the wounded that you deny they exist. I ask you sincerely: do you still deny it? Good! Well, I'll keep going. There were 325 people served in Barcelona, 48 people served in Tarragona, 254 people served in Girona, 123 people served in Lleida and Arán - which will sound rare, but it is also a Catalan population -, 188 people served in the metropolitan area, 56 people served in Terres de l'Ebre. Are you still denying it? All right, I'll keep going. In total, there are 991 persons served, 823 of mild consideration, 163 of moderate consideration and 5 of serious consideration; 991 persons affected by the actions of their police ranging from 2 children aged eleven to 23 over seventy-nine. People beaten - I repeat, beaten - by your orders simply for wanting to vote. Are you still denying it? Well, I'll keep going. As I understand that you and your media consider that all this that I have just read is part of a judeomasonic or separatist-Bolivar contubernium, I will read you other things. Metro: Gross force. The Daily Telegraph: Crisis in the European Union for violence in the Catalan referendum. The Times: Spain is chopping - I repeat, chopping -; 850 injured in the Catalan referendum. BBC - that place where his Foreign Minister, Mr. Dastis, goes as if it were 13TV, Spanish Television or even worse, and ends up making the ridiculous -: video compilation of police abuse in the Catalan referendum. Do you know what this is? They're international means they can't buy. Are you still denying it? [[Rumors.-Mr. Hernando Fraile: The Morning, The Guardian]] Yeah, well, I'm on it. Violence can never be the answer; we condemn all forms of violence - Belgian Prime Minister. It is time to reduce tension; the only way forward is a negotiated solution, - former Belgian Prime Minister -. The escalation in Spain is worrying; Madrid and Barcelona must negotiate - German social democrat leader -. Some scenes this morning in Catalonia are quite shocking and certainly unnecessary; simply let the people - Scottish Prime Minister - vote. Police violence against the citizens of Catalonia is shocking; the Spanish Government should immediately dialogue - leader of the British Labour Party -. Are you still denying it? They think they're on a TV set? [[Rumors]] His spokesman - and I don't mean his puppy, Pablo Casado, who remembers Companies with us, but Méndez de Vigo - has just said in The Times that they are willing to use violence against the process of Catalan self-determination. [[A Member of Parliament: Lie!]] All we have to say is that here we are waiting for you with open arms and a message to the good people of the Spanish people: the same people who lied to you with the Prestige, the same people who lied to you with Iraq, the same people who lied to you with the 11M, the same people who lied to you with the YAK42, the same people who lied to you with the Valencia subway accident, the same people who lied to you with the bank bailout, the same people who lied to you with the preferents, the same people who lied to you with the Gürtel, with Rato, with Bárcenas and with nine hundred others, are lying to you around Catalonia. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u84	Mr. Rufián, you have to finish. It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u85	Thirty seconds, Madam President?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u86	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u87	There are two good people in prison, two people of peace who carry much more than they spent in prison in Rato, Bárcenas, Utrera Molina and Martín Villa. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u88	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you very much. [[applause- Mr. Rufián Romero shows two posters]] Mr. Rufián, your time is over, also the time to be in the rostrum, and I call you to order. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to ask ourselves first of all why we are here today, why the People's Parliamentary Group brings us this initiative today. And I'm gonna tell her. It brings it to us for two things that I believe we are not posing well so far. First of all, because undoubtedly in Catalonia the secessionist coup has probably been the saddest episode in the recent history of our democracy, ladies and gentlemen, a violation of the law, a clamorous violation of our Constitution, a direct attack on our national sovereignty, a basic pillar on which democracy is based, an insult at the end for all the good Spaniards who believe in the law and democracy and, I would also say, for all those who suffer the suspension of this legality by coups. [[The Lord]] I am referring to the citizens of Catalonia, who are suffering the most from what is happening right now. All this would deserve a firm response from the Government, the justice system, the State Security Forces and Bodies, but - and here comes the second reason for this non-law proposal - the Government has had a contemplative attitude. Minister, thank you very much for being here, the truth is that we didn't expect you to be, but I must tell you that your attitude has been contemplative, a government that has acted late and has acted badly. That is the real reason why the People's Parliamentary Group is now bringing us a non-legislative proposal to try to cover the government's action during these days; a government that has had about 6,000 agents destined in Catalonia in a situation of almost abandonment, semi-abandoning, unprotected and helpless. I want to tell you one thing, a government whose delegate in Catalonia, Mr Millo, apologized on TV3 for the police proceedings instead of calling his own government to account for the delay in deploying, instead of asking the government to account for how he was able to be persuaded by a gentleman named Trapero, a gentleman who will end up in prison, as we all know, or who could be in prison right now. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, the truth is that their lack of foresight, the overconfidence with these Mossos has been a disastrous management, a management in which everything was done on the march, where there were agents who had to leave Catalonia for changes of destination and who remained there and were notified five days earlier by e-mail, where they still do not notify them of the deadline for the completion of this exceptional situation, where they have hosted about 6,000 agents on cruises, with logistical problems, with problems of poor food and which, by the way, are still staying in the same places. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been others who have most fortunately stayed in hotels, hotels which have had to be left overnight harassed by some citizens in Catalonia, where contracts have not been respected, where the Government has been unable to enforce the contracts it had signed with these hoteliers. We continue with suspensions of permits, with working days with excessive hours, without holidays, with different diets - there are agents who are charging 40 euros per day on diets and another 110, depending simply on where they are intended -, with a widespread disconcert in all people, in all the Security Forces and Bodies, in all the men and women who are doing their best to protect us all. Ladies and gentlemen, now you want to please everyone with a simple non-law proposal. For, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the situation of the agents of the State Security Forces and Corpses is not managed by a simple GNP, it is managed by concrete measures, by effective measures, by real measures such as wage equality, which is so necessary. They have managed one thing, gentlemen of the Government, to bring all the unions of the National Police Corps together, who have never done anything together and have precisely joined forces to talk about this model. You've managed to get all the Civil Guard associations to go together. They have managed to create a platform on the Internet to support a wage equalization that is more than just. The members of the People's Party and the members of the Socialist Party have been doing nothing for thirty years, and now they come here to say that they will support this GNP because it will mean wage equality. Minister, you are aware - you know it, because you have lived it and because I have told you and we have spoken about it - that your Minister of Finance did not want to put equal pay. It has had to be citizens who committed support to budgets to allocate money for wage equalization. [[Applauds]] It's been citizens. Don't you guys come with PNL now. [[Applauds]] We committed budget support if there was no wage matching with the Mossos d'Esquadra, if that path was not initiated, and not only the retributive path but the path of conditions, the path of adequate investment, the path of investment in suitable vehicles, in equipment, in vests. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, you have already heard Mr de Podemos today and you will now hear Mr Socialists saying that all this seems very good to you, but neither of you will support the budgets that are so necessary for equality. If there is no support from anyone, there will be no equal pay here, however much you come here to tear your clothes, Mr Delgado, and to speak on behalf of your former companions. As much as you come to talk about it, you will vote no to the budgets, just like the Socialist Party gentlemen. Without that consensus, there will never be equal pay here. If we really want and are thinking about the State Security Forces and Corpses, if we really think about the men and women who make up the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard, please bear in mind that the way in which these agents are supported does not go through statements, it really goes through improving their conditions for them to carry out their duties effectively, because they deserve it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The Socialist Group has no doubt in supporting our State Security Forces and Bodies in their constitutional mission to ensure the free exercise of our rights and freedoms, to guarantee citizens' security and to preserve our coexistence, in the same way that we do not have any reservations about criticizing and demanding responsibility for any wrong police action, because that demand for responsibility is the best way to preserve the good name that our Police and our Civil Guard have in our society. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u92	Wait a minute, Mr. Sicilia. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u93	Thank you, President, for your protection. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that disproportionate police action sometimes takes place, even some that may be left outside the law, and in view of this our obligation cannot be other than to demand political responsibilities, if any, and to ask for justice to act in order to see whether such police action responds to the legal order, is timely, consistent, proportionate and seeks the least harm possible. [[Applauds]] That is the way the State Security Forces and Bodies act and it is the way we must preserve it. But while some groups in this House, in order to avoid giving their support to our State Security Forces and Corpses, prefer to keep the image of police and civilian guards acting forcefully in front of a demonstration, my group prefers to keep the image of civilian guards rescuing immigrants in the Mediterranean by playing life. [[Applauds]] My group prefers to keep the image of national cops who not only play their lives, but have given it, like Inspector Blas Gámez, who only a week ago was fatally stabbed and left his life when trying to identify a murderer; or with that of those mossos d'esquadra who were working day and night until they discovered who committed the bombings of the Rambla de Barcelona. [[Applauds]] The comments of some groups, such as the PDECAT, who criticized the police's actions when they tried to dislodge some polling stations on 1 October in Catalonia, but who fully justified the use of force when, in 2011, the mossos d'ésquadra were forcibly charged with the demonstrators occupying the Plaza de Catalunya. [[Applauds]] That's right, the man who gave the order was an interior adviser to the Government of the Generalitat. That's the difference. In the same way that they brought to the courts demonstrators who prevented or tried to prevent a plenary session of the Parliament of Catalonia. Now, they find it shocking that two people are getting into a fully destroyed Civil Guard car and that thousands of people are preventing a judicial commission from coming out. For that there is no crime, according to the lords of the PDECAT. However, they brought to the courts those who, in 2011, were protesting at the door of Parliament against the government of Artur Mas. [[Applauds]] To the gentlemen of Esquerra I just want to say that it is enough to see the behavior of his spokesman today in the rostrum, that more than arguments the only thing he has sought is to win a few seconds of television today. That you have to use this rostrum to go on TV instead of giving arguments, says very little of your arguments and your way of doing politics, Mr Rufián. [[applause.- Mr. Rufian shows a photo]] Special mention deserves those who want to swim and keep their clothes, as do the Lords of Podemos, who are involved in rhetoric in order not to have to talk about what we are really talking about today, and it is to try to support our forces and state security bodies when they are suffering aggression in Catalonia, that is, punctual aggressions and attacks of minority groups, let us not forget it. Gentlemen of Podemos, it's very good to come here...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u94	Wait a minute, Mr. Sicilia. Mr Rufián, I ask you, please, to lower that sign and respect the speaker's intervention. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u95	Mr Delgado, it is very good to come here to shout 'live the Civil Guard' in a control session, but it would be much better for you to support this kind of initiative in those parliamentary assemblies of the Autonomous Communities, as in the Community of Madrid, where you refused to support them, or to call your leader to order when you say that Mr Otegi is a man of peace. [[Denials of Mr Delgado Ramos]] [[Applauds]] You'd better leave that double game and that double rhetoric of wanting to swim and keep your clothes on, Mr. Delgado. [[Mr. Delgado Ramos again shows two posters: in one you see the drawings referring to Felipe González and in the other the photo of José Morata]] Mr Delgado, you are not going to give the Socialist Party a single lesson in what it is to defend the rights of the Civil Guards and the National Police, because it was a socialist government, that of Zapatero, that launched the Civil Guards Rights and Duties Act, which you yourself have recognized as a tremendous advance in the rights of police and civilian guards. [[Mr. Delgado Ramos shows again the photo of José Morata]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u96	Wait a minute, Mr. Sicilia. Mr. Delgado...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u97	That is the truth of what the Socialist Government does when it is in the Government and what we do in the opposition, which is to support the State Security Forces and Bodies without any complex. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u98	A moment before it continues. Mr Delgado, you have heard the warning I have given to Mr Rufián. I wish I didn't have to do it to you, too. Thank you very much. Go on, Mr. Sicilia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I should like to end by asking you a few questions. Have you really put forward this initiative to support our State Security Forces and Bodies or simply to criticize the attitude of other political forces and to seek a partisan outcome of what happened in Catalonia during October 1 and the days after? For it seems rather the second, that you have brought this proposition not of law, rather than to support the Forces and Bodies of State Security, to make a partisan use of them. My group does not tell you, all the police unions - all of them - who have asked us not to make a partisan or political use of what happened on 1 October in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Mr Minister, taking advantage of the fact that you are here, my group has many questions to raise about the arrangement and deployment that took place around 1 October and we have not yet done so out of responsibility and because we have been asked by the trade unions, while you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have not been able to listen to them when those trade unions - all the police unions - have asked us not to use politically what happened in Catalonia. We are not going to do it out of responsibility and sense of state, which has always characterized my party.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u100	It has to end, Mr. Sicily.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u101	I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. We can talk about improving and really supporting the State Security Forces and Bodies by talking about increasing staffing. There are police and civilian guards who cannot ask for days of their own business because they are denied the lack of personnel in police stations and barracks. More stuff, better stuff. Minister, there are still entire units that lack bulletproof vests and you know it. Or, of course, also improvements in police stations...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u102	In conclusion, Mr Sicilia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u103	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. Also improvements in police stations and barracks, or measures to increase women's visibility and presence in the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard. Or measures to reconcile work and family life. Many measures, gentlemen of the People's Party, which we can talk about and which would really improve the lives of the police and the Civil Guard.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u104	Your time is up, Mr Sicilia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u105	And I'm just telling him he's gonna find us collaborating with the police and the Civil Guard. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u106	Your time has long ended. Look at the excess of time, Mr. Sicilia. Thank you very much. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Martín-Toledano whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u107	We don't accept any.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u108	All right. Thank you very much. The initiative will be voted on in its own terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u109	Except for the People's Group. The amendment by the Group of the European People's Party will be voted on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u110	All right. I'd heard you all, including yours. We will bear in mind that they accept their own amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u111	The next item is the following item on the agenda: Motion for an urgent debate by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on measures to ensure decent public pensions that retain their purchasing power. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion and of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u112	Good afternoon. Once again, from the Socialist Group we want to defend our public pension system, which is the same as defending the safety and dignity of more than nine million men and women living on a pension, the heroes of this crisis because, thanks to them, to them and to their mattress, many families have endured the lack of work and the reduction of unemployment benefits. And yes, we bring him to this plenary so that Congress confirms its commitment to the maintenance and improvement of the public pension system, with the guarantee of decent and sufficient pensions, regularly updated and preserved with measures to ensure financial balance. And we do so by calling on this Government to comply, to comply with the first and second recommendations of the Toledo Pact as long as a new political and social agreement is reached. Yes, and to resume urgently the dialogue with the social partners, those who, after the marches towards decent pensions, which ended here a few days ago, reminded him that since 2013 they are condemning current and future pensioners to poverty. Yes, that social dialogue that hasn't met since last February. And it is that, gentlemen of the People's Party, we are not going to play the game; things are bad but there is no situation, however bad, that is not likely to improve. We must explore the sufficiency and strengths of the system, not the weaknesses, as you do. You are alarmed about the viability of the public system, when the crisis really is not of the pension model, but of its incompetence in management. They declare that there is a deficit, that has been triggered - of course - but not by the increase in the number of pensioners, but because their labor reform precarious contracts, devalues wages and bets on the non-application of the agreements. By the way, you will wonder how we have paid for this deficit so far. Well, with the famous heritage. Since 2012, every pensioner in this country has collected 6500 euros from the evil former President Zapatero, more than a million of the former pesetas of the reserves that the Socialist Party left behind. [[Applauds]] You say that creating jobs is good enough, and that is not the case because new jobs, between bonuses and ridiculous wages, contribute not 6000 euros like the old ones, but exactly half. With the position of his Government, it would take seven new jobs to pay for each new retirement. They argue that the system is unsustainable and this is false, there is enough margin. This country invests 11 % of GDP in pensions. Look here close, to the neighbors of Portugal, who do so up to two more points; therefore, there is margin. By the way, now that the government has responded to everything with law enforcement, I wonder when you will comply with Law 27/2011, which seeks to improve widowhood pensions. In short, why or why do you do all this? To reduce expenditure, to cut public benefits and to encourage the hiring of private pension schemes. You have decided to cut costs but, please, we ask you to look at income because there is the solution. The future must also be managed. Look, today in this country there are thirty people over sixty-five years of age for every hundred years of working age, by 2050 there will be seventy-six for every hundred. You announce through the back door that in 2050 you will apply the same investment in pensions, when there will be twice as many pensioners as now; white and bottled, pensions will be much lower than those we know today. Luckily, you won't rule by then. There are solutions for today because pensioners in this country could have a 1.7% increase in their pensions today, exactly the same as the cost of living. Why would they have it? Because, if the Government wished, the recommendations of the Toledo Pact - which they are for - would be implemented and would free the single box of expenses that it does not have. For example, it could stop imputing to this box the active employment policies of the system, such policies of reductions, bonuses and exemptions to Social Security. By the way, measures that do not serve any purpose, do not serve to create jobs with sufficient wages, but they do, according to his own report, serve to spend 21 billion euros in 2016; 21 billion improper expenses, when if they revalued pensions by 1.7% we would only spend 16 billion euros. Therefore, there is money, there are funds, there are measures to dignify pensions but you, gentlemen of the People's Party, do not want to. Do justice with the pensioners or else, tell them to face that, even if they can, they do not raise their pensions because you have decided that in this country it is the pensioners who pay for their erratic employment policies. Tell him. What I do want to tell you is that the Socialist Party will do whatever it takes to secure a decent pension today and also tomorrow. That is why we have submitted a compromise, in accordance with articles 41 and 50 of the Constitution, but, representatives of Podemos, we cannot accept the rest because the re-evaluation is only concrete in the implementation of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. Let's not confuse anymore. Beyond incompetent management, the news we discovered yesterday in Parliament's Bureau shows us that its management can even become miserable. [[Shows a photo reading: Living apart or losing your pension]] Encarna and Julia are two sisters of Almazan, Soria, whom you will not allow to end your life together. Incarna and Julia lived in a residence, each one was paid their place, but the current legislation considers that, being sisters and being in the same residence, they constitute an economic unit of coexistence and one of them, Encarna, must stop collecting his non-contributory pension of 380 euros. These are the options given by his Government: whether they live separately or lose their pension, the only income that Encarna had. [[Applauds]] We asked them to change the regulation of the cohabitation unit and yesterday we were told no. Yesterday the People's Party and Citizens vetoed the consideration of this proposal, and they have left out four hundred people with scarce resources who will not be able to live in residences with their loved ones and, according to you, it is because they lose 13 million euros and this unbalances the system. What a system we have in this country that 13 million are capable of unbalanced! [[Applauds]] So I announce to you that the Socialist Party will present a remedy of unconstitutionality. But above all, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of the Citizens, to think back and give no more headaches to the pensioners of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. In defence of the amendments made, Mrs Vidal Sáez intervenes, first of all, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States, Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Vidal Sáez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u114	Good afternoon. Let me begin by saying that if nothing changes, this Friday the Senate will be the scene of the final funeral of the 1978 territorial agreement, and you, the People's Party, Citizens and also the Socialist Party, will be the executioners. As a Catalan, let me tell you something. No one, absolutely no one, is going to forget that you are going to dynamite all the agreements and consensus that up to now had governed coexistence, no one. Stop gassing, stop this delusion, sit down, talk like you want to do politics or something, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u115	Mrs Vidal, I ask you to stick to the question we are debating, the subject of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u116	Yeah. Thank you, President. You're going to break the territorial contract and it wouldn't be the first. They've also broken the social contract and it's not literature. Breaking the social contract means breaking with the expectations of improving a generation; it means instability and inequality; it means breaking with the credibility of an entire State, international credibility too, of course. Look, the index to measure Oxfam's commitment to fighting inequality leaves Spain at the lowest in the ranking of rich states. Oxfam attributes the low score to our labour market, and places us at 98 out of 152 countries. A lot of happiness, minister, wherever you are. The IMF warns of the loss of purchasing power of pensions in Spain and announces that the benefits will suffer an erosion of 30% thanks to the 2013 reform; a reform that condemns pensioners to lose purchasing power for life and that refuses - in that, of course - the Constitution. But you must think that we are idiots and take advantage of the fact that in the last eight months the CPI has been negative to do trilerism and announce that the purchasing power of pensions rises. What they do not say is that by the end of the year the rise of the CPI is expected to be more than 1 point and that, therefore, the loss of purchasing power will be a fact. Another is the recent OECD report 'Avoiding inequality in old age', where Spain again does not come out well, especially with regard to the situation in which future retirees will be left and as regards youth. It says: The reform of the People's Party will help reduce the amounts to future pensioners and this will result in greater inequality in their incomes. This is not what I am saying, this is what the relative record of the OECD report which I was quoting right now says. Current pensioners cannot continue to lose purchasing power and future pensioners must be guaranteed a public and sufficient pension. And it is not such an abstract concept of sufficiency, ladies and gentlemen. It has to do with where we located the soil of the welfare state. It has to do with an order of political priorities. It has to do with cohesion and a determined struggle to tackle inequality. Integrating this concept into future reforms is essential. Social security cannot be treated as a mere accounting balance sheet where only financial balance is important. Social security is the most important protection mechanism available to us, and our group has therefore tabled an amendment to this motion to ensure the economic adequacy of pensions as a basic principle. There are many workers who today believe that their pension is not going to be enough to reach the end of the month, and many studies give them reason, just as there are many young people who believe that they will never be entitled to a pension. This is exactly what I mean when I say that you have broken the social contract and, very careful because a state, a democracy in fact does not hold on to the uncertainty and social insecurity that your reforms offer us as a citizen! This executive is like a monkey with guns managing pensions, with an aggravating: that a monkey doesn't know what he's doing and you're dynamitating the adrede system. It is their reforms, not an atmospheric accident, that is leading to disaster: it is the labor reform that impoverishes us, it is the pension reform that devalues the system and makes all pensioners lose purchasing power, it is their fiscal policy designed to make those who have more contribute less. I told you recently: stop hiding behind the skirts of the Toledo Pact; concertation or dialogue cannot be an excuse for them not to do anything about the social emergency. The social security crisis has to do with an income deficit. The wealth generated by the working class throughout our lives makes it perfectly possible to ensure that we grow old with dignity with a sufficient public pension and the doubts about it are only explained by the policies of social expoliation practiced by the People's Party. The crisis is you, gentlemen of the People's Party. Their corruption, their disastrous management with Catalonia and their policies of misery for the majority and the fiscal amnesties for those who fill their envelopes invalidate them to continue governing. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u117	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u118	Thank you, President. They come to this rostrum and are presented as big managers, with an accumulated deficit of 80 billion euros from Social Security since they govern, 80 billion euros. I end up with a message. The citizenship of this country deserves guarantees and guarantees. Well-being and plurinationality are not only the most sensible project, they are an urgent need to restore the social pact. To the Socialist Party: this new consensus must and will be. They have two options: to be in chaos or to work for a new social contract. We're on time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question that led to this motion was tortuous manipulation of the data. We do not agree with this motion either in substance or in form, and that is why we have tabled an amendment. In the form, because the Socialist Party is continually trying to break the Toledo Pact by the back door, bringing in constantly motions, calls and initiatives that have to be voted on and where we have to position ourselves on issues that are being discussed right now in the Toledo Pact. It seems to me a total and absolute disrespect not to me, but to the spokespersons of all the groups in the Toledo Pact, what you are doing here in recent times. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to ask the Government what it is going to do. The Government would do as the Toledo Pact told it; that was the temporary sequence. And if you want to break it, as you did at the time when you froze the pensions, say loud and clear that you do not want to reach an agreement because you do not care about the pensions or pensioners of this country, but this weekly theater, this farce that you are doing continuously we cannot allow. Basically, ladies and gentlemen, you are asking us to go back to re-evaluation under the CPI, and I will tell you one thing that I can say louder but no clearer: the maintenance of purchasing power is a priority for the People's Party government and for this parliamentary group and so far there has been a gain of purchasing power. Look at the 2013-2016 period, 2 billion euros of purchasing power gain. If the CPI is higher - which is going to be higher, apparently - than 0.25 in 2017, that possible loss of purchasing power will be compensated and in the period 2013-2017 there will continue to be gain of purchasing power. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the countries of the European Union have rejected the CPI formula; only four countries revalue CPI. In addition, they failed in the crisis, as did the Socialist Party when it froze. I tell you one thing that I have told you in the Toledo Pact: if you do not like the revaluation index formula, let us all look for a formula that implies the maintenance of purchasing power, because so far what I can tell you is that the revaluation index formula scrupulously complies with the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, which is to use other indices other than the CPI. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest loss of purchasing power in this country was when it was precisely the criterion of the CPI and the Socialist Party froze the pensions: year 2009, €930 million of loss of purchasing power for all pensioners; year 2011, €27 billion; that is, in total, almost €37 billion of loss of purchasing power for all pensioners just when the CPI was being applied and when the Socialist Party was ruling. You tell me about pension spending. No, Your Honor, it's not three points less, it's three tenths less: 12.8 to 13.1. Do not tell me about the Reserve Fund, Your Honor, that we are still waiting to be told what was spent on the EUR 15 billion that the Socialist Party pulled out of the Reserve Fund through the back door. [[Applauds]] Do not tell me about Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, Your Honor, who left the country in bankruptcy and Social Security, once again, in deficit. [[Rumors]] I did not refer to Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, his colleague from the Socialist Group did. Social security deficit, by the way, which is mainly due to the massive destruction of employment; today we have already recovered 65% of the employment that was destroyed during the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, pensioners start shaking when they hear them talking. And it is true, now you speak at the second point that we should move the reductions to bonuses, but, ladies and gentlemen, if that is already what the law says, if that is what is said in the Royal Decree-Law on Youth Guarantee or in the Law on Self-Government. I mean, all the agreements that are being reached in the Toledo Pact, are they going to bring them here for us to vote on? Is that going to be your stand on the Toledo Pact? You're telling me about inappropriate expenses. No, Your Honor, improper spending when governing the Socialist Party and charging EUR 40 billion of improper spending to the social security system. And don't be defiant about us promoting business with banks with private pensions, because it was precisely former Minister Solbes who advised young people to make private pension plans, surely because he already knew how to leave Social Security; surely, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] You are the ones giving the banks business by permanently questioning the public pension system. With regard to the pensioner poverty rate, it has been halved, according to Eurostat 2015: from 23% to 11%, half. I'm finishing up. You are altering the order of the Toledo Pact. It is normal for us to reach an agreement in the Toledo Pact, to send it to the Government and the Government, with the social partners, to close it and bring an initiative here. So, if the government is going to tell us what we have to do, why is the Toledo Pact? What are we meeting for? What's the Congress of Deputies for? Ladies and gentlemen, we are not the UGT, although some seem to.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u121	Go finish it, Mrs. Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u122	I only say one thing - and I finish, Mr President - to you: return to the Toledo Pact, ladies and gentlemen, we are waiting for you; do not break it, reach an agreement, withdraw pensions from the political debate, do not play with the millions of pensioners because we are not going to allow it; you have already played at the time and made them lose EUR 37 billion. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, return to the Toledo Pact where the People's Party will be holding hands waiting for you where you must be, in the Toledo Pact. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u124	Pensions are one of those issues on which the Socialist Party has recently asked us to pronounce very often, but everything has to be said, without making any practical progress, on the one hand, because of the kind of initiatives that have been under discussion in recent months, none of which are binding on the Government. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, although you come to agreements with the Government to act against Catalonia, to apply Article 155 by ignoring, if necessary, the violent action of the police on 1 October in the face of a civic and peaceful citizenship, for that matter; for the unity of Spain you agree by announcing constitutional reforms that, if there is any change, we are convinced that it will be worse, in no case better; but when it comes to social issues, so much so that Mr Sánchez speaks in recent times of the social state, in that respect, nothing at all. Secondly, they make the mistake of focusing on the issue of pensions only in order to talk about the reforms carried out by the People's Party, forgetting that it was the socialists who opened the way for action against the rights of pensioners, and that it is all those who caused the impoverishment of these people, even though the reform of the PP - I am not going to deny it - has meant an even more serious attack on pensions, which in more than half of the cases do not allow those who cover them to cover basic needs. This is going to continue because the ultimate objective of all these reforms, both those of the PP and those of the PSOE ultimately, not only the change in the revaluation index, also the increase in the retirement age or the years to calculate the amount, the ultimate objective of all of them, I insist, is nothing more than spending less on pensions in the long term. There is no willingness to go to the fund, to establish the amount of a decent pension, to calculate what is needed to cover it and to address its form of financing, and there, yes, to make the necessary reforms for it. This would mean cancelling the reforms carried out, not just that of 2013, and not making pensions worthy of a financial equilibrium framework that guarantees the future viability of the system, as your proposal says, if we start from the basis that pensions must be dignified, which we believe is what should be done and is far from happening today. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, by reminding you of another issue that we have had before: Zapatero was president of the Spanish Government who in an interview defined Arnaldo Otegi as a man of peace, who is, but it seems that you only remember a few things. Since so many concerns arise from my training partner, at least don't say things half way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u125	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. I simply want to show our support for the Socialist Group's initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to be brief, but not as brief as Mr Campuzano. When I read this motion, believe me that I was very much doubting the meaning of my speech because I was moving between two reasons, to call it something: one, those aspects of disagreement which were not related to its content but to its opportunity; the other has just been mentioned by Mrs Spain, and it is that there seems to be some kind of tacit pact that does not deal in the plenary with those issues that can be discussed in the Toledo Pact, but it is true that at the time we are sitting there are certain issues that will have to be addressed, perhaps in the draft budget law when it comes to it, but of course they can be taken into account for the current situation of pensioners because otherwise those situations that do not currently have it will be covered, and they do not have it in the notes made by the motion itself, in the sense that it is true that there is an intense debate within the Toledo Pact on pension revaluation, on the implementation of the CPI and on the indexing of the purchasing power to the CPI and we are going to agree with that proposal. We will also agree with the motion's proposal to remove from the scope of social security policies those relating to active employment policies which refer to reductions, exemptions and subsidies which we believe are active employment policies, as well as to the question of the promotion of dialogue, also with social representation, which must in some way encourage certain changes or definitions in the field of people's coverage. What about the fourth question proposed, which is the self-amendment that the Socialist Group has raised on the definition of unity of living which, as Mrs Peña has quite rightly explained, is simply shameful? Well, all these situations obviously made us move between one position or another, but it is true that postponing this debate when, precisely today morning, we also decided to postpone our differences within the Toledo Pact itself, could lead, if necessary, to certain positions even of the Government itself when drafting the draft budget law could be left without content and situations in fact also without coverage. That will, of course, lead us to support this motion, but it does point out one thing, and it does no favour to reverse that situation of debate, which must be more serene, which must exist in the Toledo Pact to this plenary, not because it should not be part of it, but because it is not the opportune time and, above all, because it cannot be postponed, and that is the meaning of our favourable vote, the content of certain decisions that the Government could, even now, project through the timely legislative draft to avoid the loss of purchasing power, to prevent social security revenues from continuing to decline, to ensure that these revenues could be increased and, ultimately, that the sustainability of the system and the adequacy of pensioners could be guaranteed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u129	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few weeks we have seen an intense parliamentary debate on pensions through the various written questions, interpellations, now a motion, in which we have seen the spokesman of the Socialist Group, Mrs Perea, and the Minister for Employment and Social Security with great macroeconomic data which Mrs Peña and Mrs Spain have also joined today and in which we have basically seen more of the same thing again, how the Socialist Party through these data blames all the evils of our social security system on the reforms carried out by the People's Party in 2013, speaking of the goodness of the reforms carried out by them in 2011 with Mr Zapatero's Government. On the other hand, we have seen the Minister and also Mrs Spain say that what they are really doing is supporting the social security system and that all the problems, over and over again, come from the time of the crisis and the destruction of employment of the Socialist Party. We come up here once again today, because it is not the first - many times we have come up here to talk about pensions - to defend the same position we have always had. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u131	Wait a minute, Mr. Del Campo. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u132	He said that today we have come up here to defend the same position that we have always had in the area of pensions and that we are also maintaining in the Committee on the Toledo Pact. Why instead of looking back, instead of talking about repealing, 2011 and 2013 reforms, do we not look forward? Why not instead of scaring, as we are scaring pensioners every week or every two weeks by bringing a pension motion here, we do not let work on the Toledo Pact, which is where all these problems have to be solved? [[Applauds]] That's what we're doing. We are going to be supporting and encouraging the social security system to be sustainable over time and at the same time able to provide sufficient pensions, but within the framework in which this has to be discussed, which is the framework of the Toledo Pact. The Socialist Party was talking about spending containment measures carried out by the People's Party, but I want to remind you that you made a reform in 2011 that we have on other occasions marked courageous reform, but you - and you don't say it when you come up here - were the ones who raised the retirement age from sixty-five to sixty-seven years. You were also the ones who set up a much broader contribution period to be able to access one hundred percent of the pension and when you go up here you don't say that either. [[Applauds]] And it was also, even though they now deny it and do not support us when we say that we want to take into account the entire contribution period when determining the pension, those who extended the contribution period or made it difficult to access early pensions. The same line that was followed in 2011 was followed in 2013, developing a sustainability factor that took into account pension life expectancy. They developed this factor in 2011 and introduced criteria of financial balance in the accounts - income and expenditure -, balance between contributors and pensioners through the pension revaluation index. What we say is that neither of the two parties invented anything in one case or another, because in the end these measures were recommended by the European Union, both the establishment of sustainability factors and the increase in the retirement age and other expenditure containment measures that have been adopted by all the countries in our environment. By entering the motion - we will read carefully the transactions that have been made -, they propose - it has been said here - transfer the reductions, the flat rates, all the incentives to employment to the General Budgets of the State, but it is that that is already agreed in the Toledo Pact. And not just that. An agreement was reached by all political parties in the Act on Urgent Self-Government Measures so that, in a transitional manner, all employment incentives that are now paid with quotas are paid with the State General Budgets. And in terms of the pension revaluation index, the two reforms, both 2011 and 2013, have their lights and shadows. It is true that all the specialists who have passed through the Toledo Pact say that, as we have the pension revaluation index, if we do not carry out other reform measures, which we are proposing in the Toledo Pact Commission, they may lose purchasing power, but it is also true that in the time since the application of the pension revaluation index we have not lost purchasing value. Moreover, if we had followed with the CPI, they would not have been revalued and they have done so by 0.25 %. To finish - I'm running out of time - I tell you to stop scaring people, to stop using pensions as a bold weapon, to stop using pensions as an electoral code and to let work, as we have been doing so far, on the Toledo Pact. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Peña Camarero whether she accepts any of them.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u134	We have prepared a compromise in which we introduce a self-amendment from the Socialist Group and we also accept that of Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u135	Thank you very much. We shall take this into account for the vote. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America may, in common, on the position of Spain in the negotiation of the European directives, with a view to configuring the Energy Union. [[File number 173/000054]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u136	We shall now proceed to the debate on the following agenda item: Motion for an urgent debate by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the position of Spain in the negotiation of the European directives aimed at setting up the Energy Union. For the author group of the initiative, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to remain silent and respect the speaker and also respect this presidency, so that you do not have to make this request to them repeatedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u137	Thank you, Madam President. This motion goes on climate change, it goes on modernity, it goes on from Europe at a time when precisely the government of the People's Party with its authoritarianism, its 155, its lies to the international media is moving us away from modernity and Europe. Climate change places the world, Europe and Spain at a crossroads. According to the European Environment Agency in a recent report, the level of devastation of forest fires, floods and storms has shown that the cost of not acting against climate change is extremely high. According to the same report, there are about EUR 12 billion of losses per year that affect ecosystems but also people's living conditions. My colleague Rosa Martínez said in last week's inquiry that it is more expensive for Spain to fight climate change because it suffers more from climate change: farmers who lose their crops, the devastating fires in Galicia and Asturias or the risk of desertification that affects 80% of the territory. Therefore, at global level with the Paris Agreement and at European level we have to decide whether we take climate change very seriously and take action to reduce it and mitigate it or simply resign ourselves to its effects. As a country, we have to decide whether we want to have a leadership role or a brake on the inevitable changes in the energy model and in the economic and territorial model involved in the fight against climate change. It is essential for a country like Spain not to cross the red line of a temperature increase at the end of the century of 1.5 or 2 degrees. What time are we at? We are at the time of the European Parliament's handling of the so-called winter package, the set of directives and regulations that aim to reduce emissions by 40% and place Europe in the world's renewable energy leadership with the 2030 perspective. The debate in the Commission and Parliament has been intense and difficult with more favourable attitudes on the part of some countries and Parliament itself. And what was the role of the Spanish Government? The PP Government has been among the countries that put more obstacles to more ambitious targets for energy transition to renewables, putting forward a slower transition than technology currently allows and partnering with Poland and not, for example, with France or Germany. The government has defended renewable energy and energy efficiency targets below those proposed by the Commission, which we consider to be low; we believe that the renewable energy target should be between 40% and 45%. Moreover, these objectives to be effective would have to be binding at the level of each State. The Government also opposed the priority access of renewable energy to the electricity grid, an absolutely fundamental issue. The Government's strategy is to make Spain's contribution in renewables conditional on electricity interconnections. We do not stand in the way of interconnections, although we are a poor country with expensive infrastructures that never end up amortising, but in any case interconnections cannot be an excuse to prevent the development of renewable energies. We are at a time when the argument of the lack of flexibility of renewables no longer serves much. The fact that transport networks would no longer support the generalization of renewables is less and less sustained by the development of smart networks, demand aggregators, efficiency and savings, and storage technology. The government - of course not! - also opposed self-consumption and energy production in Europe. When in Europe it is considered a right of citizenship, in Spain self-consumption is criminalized and it is placed many obstacles and obstacles to preventing the democratization of the generation of energy and that citizens, cooperatives or municipalities can access the electricity system, the generation of energy; and all this for the benefit of the big electrics. Another issue is capacity payments and subsidies for coal and gas to have power plant operators for use in case of need. In fact, these are covert subsidies to companies - some EUR 700 million per year - which we would have to review for their lack of efficiency in the case of Spain. They cost us a lot of money and have little use. Furthermore, the message of European policy to citizens and markets must be clear: renewable energy must be the priority at the moment. The minister repeatedly justifies his policy to maintain a reasonable energy price and it is clear that the Government has failed to do so. Without going any further, yesterday we had one of the highest peaks of the energy price, the highest value in what goes for the year, and the increase has been constant during this same period. Renewables contribute precisely to cheaper energy. What do we propose in this motion? We propose that Spain should stand alongside the most advanced countries in Europe in the drive for the energy transition and not alongside the most conservative and reactionary countries. Minister Nadal has a technological conception of energy; for the government it is simply a change from one technology to another technology, in this case renewable, and whether it can be at a slow pace not to alter the economic system, the economic order. We do not share this view. [[Rumors]] The fight against climate change to be effective, to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u138	Wait a minute, Mr. Vendrell. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u139	... In order to achieve a decarbonised economy, it needs an economic model change, a real energy transition that abandons fossil fuels, it needs a much fairer model that distributes wealth and also risk, because now, with the benefit of a small minority, health is damaged by the climate change of the majority of society, and also by democratization in energy generation and in the electricity system and not by the predominance of large oligopolies. Finally, in Europe you are giving a very painful image with the position against the expansion of renewables, with the repression of 1 October and now with the attempt of authoritarian liquidation of the Government of Catalonia, and the image to be given in Europe, which a country like Spain should give in Europe, is of a democratic and green country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Vendrell. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union committed itself - as has been widely stated - to reducing greenhouse gases by 80 to 95 % in 2050 compared to 1990 levels. That is why there have been 2020 targets which we - at least my group believes so - believe we will not be able to achieve in all its aspects, and also the 2030 targets, which include that winter package presented a year ago and which is already in the final phase of conclusions, both in the European Parliament and in the Council, with a 40% reduction in greenhouse gases, always compared to 1990, with an increase and putting a minimum on renewable energy by 27% - although we believe that it can be more ambitious -, with a stake of almost 30% energy efficiency and also a percentage increase in electricity interconnections. The renewable target, as I have already said, and as we have also negotiated with the various groups, can be higher; we have to be realistic but also ambitious, and we believe that the data of 27% for a country like Spain remains short. In addition, we are very concerned about the reluctance of the Spanish Government to deal with various aspects, such as the increase in the rate of penetration of renewable energies, the creation of small producers and the distributed generation, with which the Spanish Government always puts a wall in front, and also, as it cannot otherwise be, the electric self-consumption, with which we have seen and suffered that the Government is not in favour within the Spanish borders but is in favour of its own party and its own militants outside of them. In this regard, we continue with ambition and negotiation, because we believe that there can be a variation, although we continue to clash with the wall called the Ministry of Energy of this country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u142	Wait a minute, Mrs. Rodriguez. Thank you very much, continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u143	The exhibition of this interpellation spoke of interconnections, and some questioned them and others put them as the currency of exchange for greater penetration of renewables. We don't think it has to be one thing or the other. Betting on electrical and gas interconnections is part of the future or what the energy future of this country should be. And not only do we bet on interconnections with the European continent, but we believe that they also have to be with the African continent, as we have put it in countless positions and believe that it is necessary to be taken into account. But all this search for a wider market must always be based on the basic trilemma: environmental sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply. The minister spoke to us the other day about the price of energy, and it must be said that the price of electricity cannot be the remorse or what justifies the lack of ambition in the energy transition process, because since we open the debate we would have to start by auditing that bill of light, see what charges are on that bill and they don't have to be, and why the consumer is taking on a lot of burdens that he doesn't have to take on, such as political costs, because it must be clear that what we are paying today are most of the inappropriate policies of the various political parties that have ruled in this country. [[Applauds]] We have spoken with the comrade of the Union Podemos and also with the comrades of the Socialist Party and we have understood that we have to go far beyond the objective, in the percentage of renewable energies. We have also agreed that it is necessary to give an option to all these vulnerable households. In this case, we have already been betting in this House on the social bonus; we have been a party that has always been betting that the most disadvantaged households have that support not only through the social bonus but also by investing in energy efficiency. A carbon budget for the countries of the European Union is indispensable if we really want to combat the effects of climate change; something else is not to be desired. We will have to ask the ministry what its position is on this. Questions such as where we are going, what model we want or whether we have a consensus or not are what the minister should have answered and it has not been so. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u144	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u145	We have a key strategic position in relation to the energy future of this country. We believe that it is essential that the countries of southern Europe start to be leaders as to where the European Union should go in the energy field. We are not just talking about renewables, social bonds or emission reductions, but also leadership, security, geostrategy and, above all, the future. So we hope that no party will put obstacles to the future and that we will start looking towards a Spain with a sustainable energy model. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has now presented almost a year ago the largest package of measures in the Union's energy history, the Winter Package. Each Member State has been and still is defending its interests within this negotiation, and the Spanish State too. However, the Spanish position has not exactly reflected what most of this parliamentary arc thinks. Today, in this debate, we have the opportunity to say what is the majority position of this national Parliament, which we believe should be the position of the Commission, Parliament and the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Socialists and Democrats and the Spanish Socialists require more ambition because the objectives set by the Commission in the revision of its directives are too modest for the dimension of the challenge ahead. It is overwhelmingly accepted by all public and private actors that if we do not act on the energy model it will be very difficult to achieve the objectives that the governments of most parts of the planet assumed at COP21 in Paris. Both the proposing group and the Energy Minister argued last week that there was an urgent need for in-depth discussions on this issue. Well, in addition to discussing, which is essential, we must have the determination and courage necessary to make it possible to achieve these objectives set out and agreed in Paris. That is why we think it is extremely important that today in the Spanish Parliament we agree exactly what the Spanish position should be in order to achieve this reduction in emissions that will prevent the temperature of the planet from rising above 1.5 degrees, even though in this summer it seems to us that that temperature has already risen. Spain must push for the European Union to increase its climate commitments with the support of each and every country of the Union. We in the Socialist Group believe that the agreements must be binding. We believe that the European Union is ready to increase its targets by 2030. That is why we call for an increase from 30% to 35% to 40% in the share of renewables in our energy mix. We also call for 40% savings in energy efficiency. We are aware that this is not an easy task, but we also know that with political will it can be achieved. We must follow cost/efficiency criteria, but we must analyse in depth the costs of not doing so and the savings we will have for implementing these measures. The debate on the change of energy model requires a transversal, omni-comprehensive and solidarity vision with future generations. Without this vision it is difficult to define scenarios until 2050, knowing that technological advances, changes in consumption patterns and the growing empowerment of consumers have to be taken into account. Some of the directives under review have not yet been properly transposed into Spanish law. We ask that, at least before the winter package is adopted, these directives be complied with by our Government. But that requires a real conviction, a government conviction, that they are truly committed to climate change goals and a winter package that will contribute to meeting those goals. The Socialist Group wants this Parliament to show the government what the feeling of the majority of the Spaniards represented here is. We want the government to defend what this House decides and not what is decided in the offices of Genoa and Moncloa. That is why the Socialist Group, together with the proposing group, will vote in favour of an amendment that we have also been working with the Citizens' Group, because we believe it is important to reach that parliamentary agreement. The mandates that come out of this House are very serious, for us they are very serious and we must take them as such. It cannot be that only a few mandates are important. Each and every mandate in this House is important. I hope that the compromise amendment that we are voting on today, in which the proposing group, Citizens and us, have worked, will be adopted in the majority and will help our Government to stop being side by side with the countries that are being scariest with the emission reduction targets and to side by side with the most ambitious ones, of course by demanding what Spain has to do with the differences between the energy systems and other countries, but without ever reducing our ambition and our determination. With commitment and clear leadership from the European Union, we will fight climate change and the winter package will be one of our main tools. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lucio. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. The motion submitted by the United States We can consider this plenary is very enlightening and we are sure that it will have been widely debated and agreed in its Asturian circles of Mieres, Langreo, Cangas del Narcea and Degaña. I take it that almost everyone admits that Spain is one of the European countries with the lowest energy sovereignty because of the very high dependence we suffer and that it makes the lives of consumers, our companies and our industries very difficult. See for more information the historic record price reached yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion put forward by Mr Vendrell has the effect of overloading taxation on coal in order to discourage its consumption, with the consequent effect on the production of the national mineral and the closure of the few farms which are to a very severe extent still to be found. On behalf of the Forum I maintain what has already been approved at the Congress of Deputies on 28 April 2016 in the Committee on Industry and Energy on the future of indigenous coal as a key factor for Spanish energy sovereignty. Two points that go in defense of our coal. And in addition to supporting the Government of Spain in its joint position with Poland, I would like to point out that we include in our electoral coalition programme with the People's Party the establishment of transparent mechanisms to equip our thermal power stations with financial instruments... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u150	Wait a minute, Mr. Oblanca. I beg your silence. This affects all groups but, of course, the groups that have less time cause them greater harm. I would ask you, even when the Presidency speaks, to have at least the desire to listen to me. [[Pause]] Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. He said that in our electoral coalition programme with the People's Party we included the establishment of transparent mechanisms to equip our thermal power stations with financial instruments to equip them with technologies to achieve the European zero-emission target, that is, the so-called clean coal. In short, I will vote against this initiative, which aims to introduce as a progressive and social initiative reactionary measures for the desertification of the Asturian basins of Nalón, Caudal and Southwestern Narcea and Ibias. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Oblanca. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of energy, the People's Party once again demonstrates its inability to adapt to the challenges of the future and thus its inability to govern efficiently. When ex-Minister Miguel Arias Cañete was proposed as Commissioner of Action for Climate and Energy Policy, many people raised our voice by showing our opposition to an ex-Minister who had done nothing to curb climate change dealing at European level with energy issues as if his management had been exemplary. Former Minister Cañete had done the opposite: he had obstructed the start-up of renewable energies, had raided the land to authorize oil explorations in the Ebro Delta, had permitted the exploitation of oil sands, had passed a coastal law that paradoxically unprotected the coast. However, it seems that European pressure forces him to make far more advanced decisions than Commissioner Cañete was used to when he was a minister. As explained in the explanatory statement for this motion, the proposed objectives are not ambitious enough to comply with the Paris Agreements, but even so the general orientation of the legislative package is much more advanced than what Spain and Minister Nadal have us accustomed to with their energy policy. It seems that the pressure groups in Spain still know how to make good use of the ministers. Compromís is on the side of those who want to move forward, progress and live up to the global challenges of the planet; we do not want to be on the side of those who, like Trump, prefer to avoid having to comply with commitments made like the Paris Accords. That is why we welcome the compromise proposal presented by the Podemos, Socialist Party and Citizens, to which we join and show our commitment to the vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Denial]] Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u155	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Energy is a central theme for almost all the major challenges and opportunities facing the world today, not only in terms of climate change, but also in terms of employment and security. In addition, energy consumption presents a number of problems. On the one hand, the use of energy in the most efficient way possible, which is already a challenge in current societies in both physical and economic terms and, on the other hand, the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. The foreseeable consequences of climate change, which have a broad scientific consensus, therefore make it necessary to adopt measures that significantly reduce these emissions through, inter alia, energy sustainability. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in Title XXI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which is specifically devoted to energy policy, sets out a number of basic objectives to ensure the functioning of the energy market, the security of energy supply, the promotion of energy efficiency and saving, as well as the development of new and renewable energy sources and the promotion of the interconnection of energy networks, all of which are reflected in numerous directives. Having said all this, and although we agree that it is a matter of promoting measures of, as I have said, energy efficiency and saving, we also note that the motion put forward on the objectives is even more ambitious than the approach taken by the European energy policy. Therefore, we would like to perform a series of numerals to the different points of the same. With regard to point 1, when we are talking about binding national targets of 45% in renewables and 40% in savings, we have to say that in order to assess those targets which are indicated, we should first know how they are to be achieved, how technologies and sectors are to be achieved, and at what cost and how this is financed. It should be borne in mind that Spain in renewables closed 2015 with a share on final consumption of 16%, with a target of 20% by 2020. At present, the European target set for 2030 is 27%, so for Spain a target of 45% for 2030, as you say, seems very demanding and will require a high rate of investment in renewable technologies in twelve years, which should be put in place already because otherwise it would be unattainable, if it is not already. On the other hand, as far as energy efficiency is concerned, Spain can meet the 20% savings target by 2020. Furthermore, Europe sets a European target of 27% by 2030, so achieving additional savings in Spain to reach 40% by 2030, as they put forward in the motion, would at least mean doubling current efforts. Currently, at the state level, 4360 megawatts of wind are needed to contribute a point in the share of renewables. The wind turbine installed in Spain is 22,900 megawatts, which contributes about five points in the share of renewables, thus increasing 25 points to reach a share of renewables 45 % by 2030, starting from the 20% target in 2020 for Spain, would mean incorporating the equivalent of 92 000 megawatts of new wind in ten years, considering also an energy saving scenario. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u156	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u157	Therefore, setting targets is fine, but we understand that we also need to be realistic with the starting situation and, therefore, perhaps we need to rethink something in them. With regard to paragraphs 2 and 7 of the motion, we understand that they can be assumed depending on how they are approached, so in principle we would agree with them. With regard to point eight, the end of capacity mechanisms, we have to say that today capacity mechanisms in electricity generation are important for security of supply and, of course, they are more necessary in high-power scenarios through renewables, which is the trend. This capacity is usually provided by thermal power plants, coal and gas, which provide flexibility. With regard to the proposed maximum limit of less than 350 grams of CO2 kilowatt/hour for backup plants, capacity mechanisms are also being considered in Europe to ensure the availability of lower-emission power, 550 grams, but it should be borne in mind that conventional coal plants emit about 1000 grams of CO2 per kilowatt generated and combined natural gas cycles about 370 grams of CO2 kilowatt/hour, so that this proposal would obviously remain out of many power plants. With regard to point nine, as regards the target of the 3% energy renovation rate for housing to reach 100 per cent by 2050, it should be said that while it is the European rate for the renovation of public buildings of the central government, it is a target for demanding housing because renovations in housing buildings are expensive and recover in the long term in a sector, which is also very diffuse. Objectives of this magnitude require not only a set of combined strategies for action such as regulations, theorisation, training, promotion, financing mechanisms, but also have to be linked to other sectoral policies in housing, social, environmental, waste policies, accessibility, mobility, and all this in order to use energy savings as an essential tool to improve the competitiveness of businesses, reduce costs in the domestic economy and contain maintenance costs in public facilities. This, as I said, requires the implementation of a combined strategy. Despite all these reticences and seeing that there is a compromise in which many of them are already settled, my group will abstain in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Herrero Bono has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u159	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has tabled this motion on Spain's position in the European Union on the configuration of the energy union. The position of Spain is very clear in this respect. From the very beginning, Spain has taken a constructive position to meet all the objectives set to reach 2050 with zero carbon emissions to the atmosphere. We were one of the signatories, along with 196 others, of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change; we are also one of the major drivers of the measures to be taken and we are also the country of the so-called big ones that the most renewable energy has installed. Spain is the leader in renewable energy generation - more than 41% of the electricity generated in Spain comes from renewable sources - and the country that has the most penetration is renewable - more than 17% - more than countries such as France and Germany and much more than Holland and the United Kingdom. In addition, with this year's two auctions - by the way, free of charge to the consumer - Spain will reach the target of 19.8%, which is 20% by 2020. Therefore, to say that the Government is not providing the agreed measures is to go back to the truth, to try to manipulate reality and try to deceive our people again. [[Applauds]] The objective of the European Union is the same as that of Spain: the creation of a more competitive, modern and clean energy system. Our Government has committed itself to this, and we continue to work to fulfil three main premises: security of supply, competitiveness and the maintenance of environmental sustainability. Ladies and gentlemen, what we must not do is to obviate the particularities of our country in carrying out these proposed measures, nor the way in which they are implemented, nor the technological development we have at present. What we are never going to do as a political party is to support an excessive energy policy such as that which we all suffer from in Spain and for which we still have to pay everyone more than EUR 5 billion a year and which we will have to continue to pay for over the next 20 years. They are all more than sufficient grounds for our Government to adopt the winter package. You know that on 26 June the Council of Europe adopted a directive on energy efficiency in buildings. Well, do you know what this government did? He did two things. The first was to support the rise of the Council from 27 % to 30 %. The second was to better compute the efficiency of public and private buildings as an alternative to energy efficiency. Spain's uniqueness vis-à-vis other eurozone countries is the lack of energy exchange. Spain is an energy-isolated country and therefore the Spanish Government considers the development of our interconnections to increase renewable energy capacity in Spain to be key. The interconnection of the Gulf of Vizcaya has become today a fundamental infrastructure to further improve the Spanish energy system. But until these interconnections have greater capacity - today we are at 2.8% and the target is 15% in 2020 - the Spanish Government must continue to have a backup energy to maintain the electrical safety of all Spaniards through traditional energies, such as coal. United We can affirm in this motion that they are contrary to the generation of thermal energy in this period of energy transition but, allow me a localism: I, who am from the province of Teruel and we have a thermal power plant in Andorra that generates more than 40% of the gross domestic product, I ask the friends of Aragon de Unidos We can do in this period of transition the favor of not trying to deceive with the defense of thermal power plants in our land. You want to put an end to them and so you have again manifested yourselves in this motion. Finally, and because the various spokesmen of the political groups that preceded me will surely have been passed on: you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, of the United Podemos and of citizens, who have so much promoted the slogan of the sun tax and who have made false accusations to this government concerning the abuses that it committed against consumers, I would like to say that the Supreme Court on Wednesday, 18 October, rejected the contentious-administrative appeal against the decree regulating electric self-consumption. Therefore, the sun tax is another false justification for the lack of rigour that you are having as opposition. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this government has once again shown that it works from honesty and honesty to ensure that, in addition to meeting environmental objectives and security of supply, all Spaniards also have a competitive price. All this government demands is that the principle of equal costs with the rest of the countries be adopted when setting national targets to contribute to climate change, promote the well-being of the Spaniards and increase the competitiveness of our companies. The People's Parliamentary Group will therefore vote against this motion. Thank you, President. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u160	Thank you very much, Mr Herrero. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Vendrell whether his group accepts any.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u161	We have reached an agreement with the Socialist and Citizens' Group on a compromise amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u162	All right, thank you very much, we will take this into account for the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u163	We now turn to the next item on the Committee on Foreign Affairs' opinions on international conventions with dossier numbers 110/41 to 110/48 and 110/50 to 110/54. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, a three-minute shift is opened for parliamentary groups to set their positions. [[Rumors]] As it is a rather brief shift, I would beg your silence and attention, as I have been doing, with little success, throughout this session. [[Pause]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. A separate vote has been called for on two international conventions: one on the IMF, which we are also voting in favour of and on which there are no further matters to discuss, and the other on the new relationship agreement between the European Union and Cuba. I would like to read briefly the initial part of what the parties sign, which also means what the Republic of Cuba signs: Reaffirming its respect for the universal human rights set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other relevant international human rights instruments, recalling its commitment to the recognized principles of democracy, good governance and the rule of law. Well, we are going to vote in favour of an instrument that represents a change in the common position that was at the time sponsored by the Aznar governments and that was a position that was not open to dialogue, but also clearly saying that we must have a demanding position of progress towards the consolidation of human rights and full democracy in Cuba. Nothing more and thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Maura Barandiaran has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u166	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with a reminder to the Ladies in White, harassed when they were arrested every Sunday in Havana; to my friend Yoani Sánchez, a courageous journalist who is permanently hampered by his work of informing and expressing his opinion; to my friend Regis Iglesias, a political exile; to my friend Dagoberto Valdés, leader of civil society; to my friend Elizardo Sánchez, president of the Cuban Commission on Human Rights and Reconciliation; to my friend José Daniel Ferrer, president of the Cuban Patriotic Union; an emotional reminder to Oswaldo Payá, Sakharov Prize of the European Parliament and leader of the Christian Liberation Movement, allegedly murdered by the Castro regime - and it has not been that regime but the history of oppression against an entire people for nearly sixty years - and to Eduardo Cardet, a political prisoner who is serving prison sentence for claiming that Fidel Castro had been rejected by the Cuban people. [[Applauds]] As you all know, our parliamentary group and our party are in favour of free trade, but they are also in favour of human rights and the rule of law, two concepts, free trade and human rights, which should always go hand in hand, because a rule of law that protects and guarantees human rights is the best protection and guarantee of trade. Human rights have not advanced a peak on the island of Cuba: 3787 arrests documented by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights this year,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u167	Quiet, please. Silence
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u168	... 3787 slabs that weigh on a regime incapable of changing, of opening up, of accepting that the dissident is not a criminal but a citizen. That is why, and according to what the Citizens' delegation in the European Parliament defended in its day, our group is going to vote against, because we do not understand that the Cuban Government is abandoning the repressive policy, but quite the opposite. And I must also say that it is not a country open to the private economy, competition and market freedom either. What the High Representative, Federica Mogherini, has said is that this agreement supports Cuba's economic and social modernization process only as a desideratum, a possibility that is not confirmed by reality. The reality is that economic freedoms, along with civil liberties and human rights, are being permanently violated in Cuba. That is the reason for our negative vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u169	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Bustinduy Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u170	Today, this House will ratify the agreement on political dialogue and cooperation... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u171	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u172	... between the European Union and Cuba. It is an excellent news that opens up a new time in the relations of our State with Cuba at a decisive moment in its history and ours. Today we bury, at last, twenty-one years of common position, twenty-one years of that disastrous ideological crusade initiated by Mr Aznar, and today it is time to ask you what this failed policy has served, what the policy of isolation, confrontation and interference has achieved, who has paid the price of that policy but the Cuban people, to whom we are joined by deep historical, family, cultural and economic ties; who continues to pay the price of sixty years of embargo and commercial and financial blockade by the world's first economic power against an island of 11 million people; how many dictatorships, how many coups of State have financed the United States, some of them with their complicity and collaboration, while suffocating Cuba's brother people in the name of democracy. [[Applauds]] Twenty-five times the United Nations voted for the end of the blockade last year by 191 votes in favour and two abstentions: the United States and Israel. Today, once again, on this historic day for relations between our States, this parliamentary group demands that international legality be respected and that the criminal blockade and economic war of the United States against the Republic of Cuba cease. [[Applauds]] On 21 December last year, we asked the Government of Spain to be the first country to ratify this agreement and thus to be able to play a symbolic role as leader and referent in this new time that opens up in the region. Minister Dastis said yes and publicly assumed that commitment and yet you have taken 316 days to bring the agreement here; you have meanwhile advanced us five countries. They say it takes a long time to process it and yet - what a coincidence!- with CETA it took you almost three months less to bring it here. It is a pity, not only because it shows once again that you systematically subordinate the foreign action of the State to private, commercial or ideological interests; it is also a pity because it reveals that you must actually have a poor image of Spain, you who claim to defend it so high and so high, because if it is not impossible to explain your lack of ambition and leadership in the international arena, that you conform to a passive and subordinate position, that you align with figures like Mr Trump or Mr Erdogan while claiming to defend human rights. Today, here, we are celebrating this agreement that foreshadows a radically different foreign policy, especially in our relationship with the brotherly countries of Latin America, a foreign policy to be proud of and a foreign policy that would be perfectly possible. The only impediment, the only one that prevents it is you, is your lack of capacity and is the little confidence that, below all your sophasia, you actually have in our people and in the country to which we belong. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u173	For the Socialist Group, Mr Gutiérrez Limones has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u174	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Any political science treaty tells us that problems do not exist, but are defined, and it is true that there are situations of need that can be perfectly objective. It is true that after that what we say we can do socially or politically in front of them is what differentiates us, the social policies that we each apply to these situations. It is respectable, but what is not worth in politics and political play is the simplification or reductionism of things, that everything is either good or bad or everything is black or white. In the subject before us, Cuba, there are so many elements to consider. Our country has had a particularly direct relationship with Cuba and many of the citizens of our country think that Cuba unites our identity, our culture and our language. We are the natural mediators, the facilitators and even the position we have had in recent years has not been understood by Cuban communities in the United States. Cuba is the only country in Latin America that did not have a political and cooperation agreement with the European Union and even we have assumed - Mr Aznar, president of the former PP government - that our country was the country that led the common position that in twenty years has not given any economic, political or social benefits, nor has it improved civil rights, nor has it even helped the Cuban people in any way. So, we have to change. This agreement - which we would have liked, and we have demanded, that Spain should have been the first country to ratify it and thus move forward because we should have maintained that leadership - finally comes to our House. This agreement should serve as an example, Cuba should serve as an example for our country to define a plan for Latin America, a plan that also has its goals, strategy, means, coordination and coherence. We are the country. Our position on the agenda and in international relations is defined precisely in the role we play with Latin America. And here it is not only the economic, social or political interests that we can have; it is much more: our values define our principles. Latin America is part of what we are and we want to be. Together we are always more and better, so our relations with Latin America have to go much further. This is a good starting point and I am glad to know that in this House we will all work together to improve relations with Latin America. It is a starting point for developing a better plan in our relations with our brotherly peoples. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u175	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernabé Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u176	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let the world open to Cuba and let Cuba open to the world. Thus Pope John Paul II pronounced himself in 1998 on the occasion of his visit to the island. And while it is true that it has been quite a long time, almost twenty years, it is no less true that his words have been prophetic and today, almost two decades later, the European Union has picked up this glove and made a strong, determined and courageous bet that a new time will be opened for the new generations of Cubans, an era that must be marked by the full establishment of human rights on the island and by the respect, inter alia, of freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and association, freedom of the media in order to be able to publish the news of what is happening there and freedom of Cubans in order to be able to access them without any kind of clipping. In short, for that beautiful word to be given, which is called freedom, of which, unfortunately, the Cuban people lack. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only from freedom that we can begin to speak for real about the existence of a democracy in Cuba; only with free elections in which the Cuban people speak and not their hierarchs can we be sure that the sovereignty of that people is collected; elections in which political parties can be presented, in which a Parliament like this comes out and in which the leaders are voted by the Cubans and not selected by their surnames. The only thing we want, ladies and gentlemen, to approve this agreement is for Cuba to have a future and for Cubans to decide on all aspects that affect their lives: politicians, economics, social, cultural and I place special emphasis on work. The Government of Cuba today has a golden opportunity to demonstrate that it is not a beacon in front of the gallery and to end once and for all with this labor and wage exploitation that involves removing many of its workers, in particular those who work in companies with foreign capital, part of their emoluments that are seized by the Government. The People's Party is going to be there, ladies and gentlemen. We're surprised Citizens didn't understand. In the European Parliament he makes a speech, here in the Commission he abstains and today he says he is going to vote against it. This is not the time to oppose it because today it is with the Cuban people that we have to be with. We must bet decisively on those 500 years of historical and affective ties, for there to be a democratic and peaceful transition on the island and for economic development to bring peace, prosperity and well-being to the Cuban people, but all under an inexcusable condition, ladies and gentlemen: the immediate release of all political prisoners. [[Applauds]] It is a pity that in the intervention of Podemos there has not been a single mention made of political prisoners, nor one. What is there, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, are human beings who are in prison for their convictions and beliefs. [[Applauds]] What's in Spain are criminals. In Spain it is the criminals who go to jail, but in Cuba, unfortunately, no, and that is why there has to be an express recognition of all those heroes of civil rights, those heroes who were awarded the Sakharov Prize, the Ladies in White, Guillermo Fariñas, Eduardo Cardet, the leader of the Christian Liberation Movement, who is in jail simply for his religious convictions, and, of course, Oswaldo Payá, that person who said that he would never be overcome with fear. [[Applauds]] For them and for so many other thousands of Cubans who are rotting in the prisons of that country for their convictions, the People's Party supports this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, let the world open to Cuba, but above all let Cuba open to the world. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u177	We turn to the last item on the agenda, concerning the request by the Committee on Justice to grant a three-month extension of the deadline for the subcommittee to study and define a national justice strategy for the completion of its work. That request shall be put to the vote by consent at the end of this meeting. In three minutes we shall begin the voting. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin. Take your seats. We vote first of all to take into consideration the proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, amending Articles 111 and 126. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 341 plus 2 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 175 plus 2 telematics votes, 177; against, 166.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u179	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u180	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, an organic amendment of the Organic Law 6/1985, of 1 July, of the Judiciary, partial reform of the permit and license regime. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 331 plus 2 telematics votes, 333; in favour, 261 plus 1 telematics vote, 262; abstentions, 70 plus 1 telematics vote, 71.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u181	Consideration is given to the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u182	We shall now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals. Firstly, the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the reprobations of the Minister of the Interior, Juan Ignacio Zoido Álvarez, and of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Alfonso Dastis Quecedo. We are going to vote on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 170 against, 136 abstentions, 35.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u183	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on Support and Response to the Security Bodies and Forces of the State as Guarantees of the State of Right. [[File number 162/000470]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u184	We now vote for the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning support and support for the State Security Forces and Bodies as guarantors of the rule of law. We voted in the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 248 against, 92 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u185	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u186	We shall continue with the votes on the motions. Firstly, the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on measures to ensure decent public pensions that maintain their purchasing power. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, de Esquerra Republicana y Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 177 against, 131 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u187	It's approved. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America may, in common, on the position of Spain in the negotiation of the European directives, with a view to configuring the Energy Union. [[File number 173/000054]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u188	We shall now vote on the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the position of Spain in the negotiation of the European directives, aimed at setting up the Energy Union. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and Citizens. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 201 against, 133 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u189	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u190	We are now voting on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. We shall proceed to the electronic vote on the opinions from which a separate vote has been requested in the first place. We vote for the Agreement on Political Dialogue and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part, done in Brussels on 12 December 2016. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 310 against, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u191	It was adopted. - LENDING AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND, DONE IN MADRID AND WASHINGTON ON 12 AND 30 MAY 2017. [[File number 110/000044]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u192	We now vote on the loan agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the International Monetary Fund, made in Madrid and Washington on 12 and 30 May 2017. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 262 against, 70 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u193	Approved. - PROTOCOL TO AMEND THE EUROPEAN COUNTRY CONVENTION, DONE IN STRASBURG ON 15 JUNE 2016, AND DECLARATION THAT SPAIN WANTS TO FORM. [[File number 110/000041]] - STRATEGIC ASSOCIATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THEIR MEMBER STATES, ON THE ONE PART, AND CANADA, ON THE OTHER PART, DONE IN BRUSSELS ON 30 OCTOBER 2016. [[File number 110/000042]] - AMENDMENTS TO ANNEX I AND II TO THE PROTOCOL TO THE 1979 CONVENTION ON TRANSBOUNDARY AIR CONTAMINATION TO A GREAT DEPARTMENT PROVIDED FOR BY PERSISTENT ORGANICAL CONTAMINANTS, ADOPTED IN JANUARY 18 DECEMBER 2009 BY DECISION 2009/2. [[File number 110/000045]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE EUROPEAN LABORATORY OF MOLECULAR BIOLOGY CONCERNING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A SUBJECT OF THE LABORATORY CITY IN SPAIN, DONE IN HEIDELBERG ON 26 JANUARY 2017. [[EMBL]] [[File number 110/000046]] - AMENDMENTS TO THE TEXT AND ANNEXES I, II, III, IV, VI AND VIII TO THE PROTOCOL TO THE 1979 CONVENTION ON TRANSFRONTERIZED AIR CONTAMINATION TO GREAT DEPARTMENT PROVIDED FOR BY PERSISTENT ORGANICAL CONTAMINANTS, ADOPTED IN JANUARY 18 DECEMBER 2009 BY DECISION 2009/1. [[File number 110/000047]] - AMENDMENTS TO THE TEXT AND ANNEXES OF III AND VII OF THE PROTOCOL TO THE 1979 CONVENTION ON TRANSFRONTRY AIR CONTAMINATION TO GREAT DISTRIBUTION IN THE FIELD OF WEIGHT METALS, ADOPTED IN JANUARY 13 DECEMBER 2012. [[File number 110/000048]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA ON THE EXERCISE OF REmunERATED ACTIVITIES OF FAMILY DEPENDENTS OF THE DIPLOMATIC, CONSULAR, ADMINISTRATIVE AND TECHNICAL PERSONS OF THE DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS AND CONSULAR OFFICES, DONE IN MADRID ON 30 MAY 2017. [[File number 110/000050]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA ON THE RECIPROCAL EXEMPTION OF VISITS FOR DIPLOMATIC PASSPORT TITLES, DONE IN MADRID ON 30 MAY 2017. [[File number 110/000051]] - AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA ON THE MUTUAL EXCHANGE AND PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, DONE IN SARAJEVO ON 5 JUNE 2017. [[File number 110/000052]] - SOCIAL SECURITY CONVENTION BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA, DONE IN BAD NEUENAHR ON 19 MAY 2017. [[File number 110/000053]] - SECURITY AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN, THE FRENCH REPUBLIC, THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC, THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS AND THE PORTUGUESE REPUBLIC ON THE PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION OF THE EUROPEAN GENDARMERITY FORCE, DONE IN ROMA ON 3 FEBRUARY 2017. [[EUROGENDFOR]] [[File number 110/000054]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u194	Does the House now agree to the assent of the rest of the opinions? [[Consent]] They are approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-24-CD171024.u195	Finally, the request of the Committee on Justice to grant a three-month extension of the deadline granted to the subcommittee for the study and definition of a national justice strategy for the completion of its work is submitted to the plenary. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] The extension of the deadline for the subcommission was approved. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight o'clock at night.
