ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency subjects to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of item 27, corresponding to the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, on the privatization of public services and health and its effects on the sustainability of the health system and on the health of the population. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of the item from the agenda was therefore approved. On the other hand, I should like to inform you that, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, the vote on all the matters discussed today will take place at this week's Thursday meeting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u2	We now begin with item I of the agenda, on the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Parliament of Navarre, amending the consolidated text of the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users and other supplementary laws, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2007 of 16 November. That is why three representatives of the Parliament of Navarre are accompanying us, who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom, on behalf of the whole House, I welcome. Thank you so much. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Sergio Sayas López.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u3	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is an honour to speak in the rostrum of an institution representing national sovereignty, the will of the Spanish people. A people to which we shipwrecks belong not only because that has been the fate of our history, but especially because that has been and is the will of the vast majority of its citizens. And we do it for the second time to ask for the approval of this bill. A proposal that seeks to improve rights, that seeks to avoid discrimination suffered and suffered by many people who carry or have HIV/AIDS. Many of these people are deprived, discriminated against when signing contracts, carrying out legal acts or receiving some kind of benefit, and this happens in a country like this and in the middle of the twenty-first century. That is why the Parliament of Navarre, already in 2011, sent this legislative proposal to this House. At that time it fell because the legislature was running out. We returned to this House in 2014, defended it and did not go forward. But if anything we're shipwrecks is persistent and that's why we're here again. We are here again because defending rights, wanting to improve equality, trying to abolish from our legal system all those clauses that are discriminatory, in short, trying to improve the lives of many Spanish citizens well deserves to be persistent. Ladies and gentlemen, article 14 of the Constitution states that all Spaniards are equal before the law without any discrimination on grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance. It is high time that equality was a real equality. It is time for no one in this country to be discriminated against for having or carrying a disease. It is time for us to stop putting stones in that backpack that carry people who suffer and who already weigh too much on their backs. This proposal is a law to remove barriers; it is a law to erase from our society everything that sounds like discrimination, stigma; it is a proposal to improve the lives of many Spanish citizens. This proposal proposes to add an additional provision to the consolidated text of the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users and other complementary laws, adopted by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2007, which states that clauses excluding one of the parties from having HIV/AIDS shall be null and void. In addition, it requests the Government to submit, within one year, a bill with the same principles but applied to other diseases in which something similar also happens. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this time we ask you for your support; we ask you for your support to avoid discrimination, to seek equality; we ask you for your support so that this bill that makes Spain a more egalitarian country can move forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u4	Thank you very much. Next, you have the word don Koldo Martínez Urionabarenetxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[His intervention in Basque begins]] Pick it up on. Good afternoon. I am a parliamentary spokesman for Geroa Bai in the Foreign Parliament, but today I come here also representing Euskal Herria Bildu, Ahal Dugu Podemos Nafarroa and Izquierda-Ezkerra, four forces that, after the elections in May 2015, we were able to make - and we succeeded in doing so - the social majority of Navarra be represented in the Government of Navarra, a Government presided today by Uxue Barkos, thanks to a programmatic agreement with which we ended forty years of uninterrupted governments of the Navarro People's Union and, occasionally, of the Socialist Party, which has always been an accomplice necessary for those governments. Today I should be accompanied here by the parliamentary spokesman for the Navarro People's Union and the spokesman for the Socialist Party, but they have preferred to stay in Iruña to raise their voices against the amendment of a law, the Vascuence Act - an amendment that we will soon adopt in the Foral Parliament - which will allow the municipalities that by majority decide to move from the non-Vascophone zone to the mixed zone and therefore their citizens to better respect their linguistic rights. A democratic modification, like any amendment to a law passed in a Parliament that for UPN forces, Socialist Party and People's Party represents sectarianism and imposition and that for us is nothing but democracy, democratic exercise. It is true, as Mr Sayas, spokesman for the Navarro People's Union, has said, that this is the third time that this proposal has been approved in the Foral Parliament; it is the second time that the Congress of Deputies has defended itself here as the highest legislative body in the State. We hope that the third will be overtaken and you will give your approval to this proposal. Mr Sayas explained what changes we are proposing. A single additional provision that reflects the nullity and ineffectiveness of certain clauses that exclude people simply because they live with HIV/AIDS and a final provision in which we urge the Government of Spain, within one year, to draw up a bill that incorporates these principles and also extends them to people with other diseases, possibly subject in the future to these exclusions that are currently being made. We considered that this proposal was necessary because it is necessary to eradicate from the legal system all aspects that hinder equal opportunities or that allow or tolerate unfair discrimination such as those that suffer from HIV positive because of the mere fact that they are. The repetition of discriminatory situations in people with HIV is constant. It is at stake not only their right to equal opportunities and non-discrimination, one of the most basic rights, but also the exercise of other rights as important as the right to personal privacy, the right to work, the right to free choice of profession, the right to education or access to benefits as important as private insurance, life insurance or sickness insurance, which, as you know, are at the same time key to access to other rights or even mortgage credits, etc. Yes, it is true, articles 14 and 9.2 of the Spanish Constitution protect in a certain way against some discrimination, but we consider that they are not sufficient. At the moment we need new and enhanced protection mechanisms for people with HIV, because not only must discrimination be avoided that is the result of a direct will to exclude people with HIV, or that is supposed to have HIV, but also discrimination resulting from inertia, irresponsibility and lack of foresight must be avoided. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you have the last word. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u6	Thank you very much. Finally, Mrs Nuria Medina Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u7	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by congratulating the social movements and NGOs working in the field of prevention and people who have and live with AIDS. Of course, I would particularly like to congratulate the Navarra associations, SARE and the Citizens' Anti-AIDS Commission, which transferred this demand from the collective to the Ombudsman and which the Navarra Parliament was pleased to take up in a legislative initiative. As my colleagues have already said, this is the third time that this proposal has reached the Congress of Deputies and the second time that we have come from Navarre to defend it in this Chamber. For us and for us, for the Socialist Party, what pursues this initiative well deserves to be tried whenever necessary. It is an honour for me and a great opportunity to defend a bill that makes us move forward on citizenship rights, in particular on the rights of people with HIV, and also on social justice, with the aim of eliminating all discrimination by suffering from a disease or a virus. It is an advance that in 2013 stopped the People's Party with the roll of its absolute majority, demonstrating, as on so many other occasions, its lack of sensitivity and its lack of belief in equal rights for all people. The argument they then gave that equality was already guaranteed in the Constitution, obviously, is not valid. The facts show us that legality is one and reality, unfortunately, is another. The reality is that the people who are going to hire an insurance or any other financial product find themselves with it, it is that discrimination with which thousands of people in our country find themselves forced to declare that they have an illness and that, in addition, they can be discriminated against. Today, in the middle of the 21st century, legislation allows this discrimination, allows this unfair treatment, even if it appears to be a lie. This initiative should have long been adopted and implemented. It is another step towards the non-discrimination of a specially pointed collective, a collective - people with HIV - that has suffered and suffers from a social stigma often invisible or little known, but existing. If we succeed today in taking this initiative forward, it will directly improve the lives of these people and certainly make us move forward as a society because ending any discrimination means moving forward in a much more just and more egalitarian society. It is also important, as my colleagues have commented, to mention that the fourth final provision contained in the law refers to the extension of the nullity of discriminatory clauses to other diseases in which, today, legislation allows unequal treatment, even after they have been overcome. Therefore, the proposal seeks to go beyond eliminating discrimination towards a particular group because it seeks to ensure equal access to certain contractual or financial products for all people or, which is the same, that they can have a life exactly the same as any of us here. It is true that this time the proposal does not have the unanimity of the Parliament of Navarre, since the two MPs of the PP abstained in the proceedings. The truth is that we regret it because we would have liked to bring this proposal back with Parliament's unanimity. But I hope that today the People's Party will change the meaning of the 2013 No vote and of this uncommitted abstention. In any case, we hope that the different majorities that can be formed today in this Congress, in this Chamber, will be able to allow this initiative to go ahead and finally end the unfair and discriminatory treatment of thousands of people. In the twenty-first century, we must move forward on citizenship rights and equality because discriminating against groups like these is to prevent equal coexistence as citizens and citizens of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u8	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Alli Martínez, to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Parliament's fellow Members from Navarre, welcome and thank you very much for being here, being the voice of the vast majority of the outside Parliament, which is to be thanked and to be congratulated because on many issues we have reached agreements. Mr Martínez, I am going to stick to the matter and I am not going to take advantage of the time, but I also partially understand it because of the lack of representation your party has here. In any case, I would like to say that it is absolutely essential that what the Foreign Parliament has approved for the second time in Navarre, today has the unanimity of this House, not only for social justice, but also for eliminating any discrimination, as my colleagues in Navarre have already said, so that it does not harm people with HIV in any legal act. Therefore, Union del Pueblo Navarro, for consistency, because it did so in Parliament in March 2011 and because it did so here in May 2014, it is going to vote in the affirmative again this proposal of law brought by the parliamentarians of the Foreign Parliament of Navarra. Also basically because in the history of our party, since its foundation, we have always had sensitivity and social commitment to the most vulnerable people, in this case, logically, to people with HIV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u10	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde also has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u11	[[His intervention in Basque begins]] I think they have said everything that has to be said, but there are some things I also want to make clear today. From Euskal Herria Bildu we would like to make it clear that we do not understand that a proposal of law that only pretends that no person can be legally discriminated against because of being a carrier of a virus or disease, takes six years without being approved by this Congress. Firstly, because of the unnecessary obligation to go through this process, rather than allowing the Navarra institutions to decide how they defend the rights of the citizens of their territory. Secondly, because the handling of this bill is a clear example of the fact that the legislative capacity of the Navarro Parliament is subject to the interests of the State, since when it is not because the legislature has been exhausted or is about to be exhausted, it is by the absolute majority of the PP that, abstracting from the unanimous support of the political forces, on that occasion, represented in Parliament, rejected it in Congress. Let us hope that the correlation of forces in this House today will allow this proposal to come forward, although this time it does not have unanimity in Nafarroa, because, as it says and has been defended by the representatives of the Navarro Parliament, we are talking about a question of social justice. And it is necessary to take legal measures not to add to the personal and family drama of being HIV positive the social stigma that people with HIV still have to suffer. This stigma is social, but endorsed by current legislation, tangible when these people are forced to declare themselves carriers of the virus and may become discriminated against once they have done so. Even if it seems to be a lie, changes in legislation are still needed to prevent it from happening. We also find it entirely reasonable to set a one-year deadline for determining how to apply this law to other diseases with respect to which the same exclusionary and discriminatory effects may be applicable. Therefore, as we cannot think otherwise, we will support this proposal from the Navarra Parliament and we hope that in the near future, without the guardianship of anyone, the Navarra institutions will have all the mechanisms in their possession to decide on all those issues that affect their citizenship, as Navarra society is ripe to make its own decisions. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u12	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u13	Thank you, Madam President. [[His intervention in Basque begins]] Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This is the story of a law proposition that goes around more than a tiovivo. This is the third time it has come, unfortunately, and we have been unable to give it a solution. I am not going to repeat what has already been said by both the Navarro parliamentarians and the two colleagues who have preceded me in the use of the floor because it gives me the feeling that we are all going to say similar things, that we are going to make the same arguments, although I hope that the Group of the European People's Party will not make the same arguments that it has made so far. If he does, we'd fall into some kind of surreal nonsense. In any case, this bill was passed in the Navarro Parliament, brought and passed the legislature. That was the first time. The second time it was adopted unanimously, but here it was rejected. The absolute majority of the People's Party, once again, prevented it from going forward. And today we bring it for the third time, because the Navarro Parliament has re-approved it, but this time with the abstention of the Group of the European People's Party, I do not know whether to prevent what is going to happen here or as a result of what happened then. In any case, I reiterate once again that the argument they gave has neither feet nor head. I am not going to repeat what the colleagues have said, but I am going to recall the words of the current President of the Government of Navarre, who three years ago, as parliamentarian of Geroa Bai, went up to this rostrum to defend this proposal and said that this issue had a go and an egg, especially because it has consequences. It is a very simple proposal both in what is proposed and in the way it is carried out, but the consequences of the change that can be made as a result of this incorporation into the legislation are enormous and fundamental, especially for people suffering from HIV. It is about not discriminating against people with AIDS. With this change, the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users, as well as other complementary laws, seeks to ensure that persons with HIV/AIDS have legal guarantees that they will not be discriminated against for this reason when purchasing certain financial products - insurance, contracts, etc. - with the Administration or with private companies. Irrespective of the fact that, as has been said here, the Spanish Constitution, in articles 9.2 and 14, ensures equality and non-discrimination, reality is different. Certain discriminations have been allowed that we have euphemistically called clauses. Sometimes language plays us past like this and we call clause to what in another context would be discrimination. People who suffer from or are carriers of AIDS, who, thanks to the advancement of the science of being a deadly disease, have become a chronic disease - medication is needed for life, but it is no longer deadly -, have suffered a lot of stigmatization throughout their life, have had and still have today enough social stigmatization for everything that has surrounded this virus, its origins, etc., to punish them twice with legislation that does not guarantee non-discrimination. I do not say that legislation discriminates, but it does not guarantee non-discrimination by means of another series of products, contracts, clauses that appear at certain times. That is why we want to take this step thanks to the initiative of the Parliament of Navarre, which, as its spokesmen have explained, comes from the social initiative, is taken up by the Navarro parliamentarians and proposes this amendment in the law; an amendment which, even if it comes from Nafarroa, will benefit everyone if it is incorporated into general legislation. And a second question is the final provision they propose to include: that you do not discriminate against other diseases, that no one can be discriminated against if you have cancer, diabetes or other diseases. For that reason, he told the Government to propose a law in one year so that all that would be reflected. Finally, I want to say, on behalf of my group, that we would have liked things that affect Navarre to be decided in Navarre, because there they are sovereign and must decide their future. For now we will have to do this here and I hope that what we do here will benefit everyone and that today all groups will unanimously adopt this bill. My group will support this initiative as it did in Nafarroa and as we did three years ago also when in this very rostrum we are defending this issue. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u14	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Representatives of the Parliament of Navarre, ladies and gentlemen, it is very regrettable to see how, despite the advances in medical science and the knowledge we have today of the disease, a society considered advanced as ours continues to stigmatize and discriminate against people carrying the human immunodeficiency virus, HIV. This is a subject that we have been debating for over thirty years. In fact, AIDS was first recognized by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States in 1981 and its cause was identified at the beginning of that decade. We have therefore been debating this disease for 30 years now and what it entails. After more than three decades of debate, there are still today misconceptions about AIDS and the belief that it can be transmitted by casual and non-sexual contact. HIV is primarily infected by unprotected sex, contaminated blood transfusions, hypodermic needles and mother-to-child during pregnancy, childbirth or breastfeeding, but, contrary to what is commonly believed, some bodily fluids, such as saliva or tears, do not transmit the virus. Of course, progress has been made so far and it is clear that thanks to the achievements of medical research today AIDS has ceased to be a deadly disease to be a chronic disease. On the other hand, many administrations have made efforts to guarantee the rights of carriers. Catalonia and its institutions, for example, have always been in favour of the defence of sexual and reproductive rights and against the stigma associated with the AIDS epidemic as a social guarantee of human rights and development. It is precisely in March 2014 that the Parliament of Catalonia unanimously approved the National Accord to Combat the Epidemic of HIV in Catalonia and Against the Stigma Relatat, a coordinated agreement with Catalonia's associative network in the field of HIV/AIDS and, in particular, with the December 1st Committee, a unitary platform of Catalonia's NGO-AIDS that brings together up to twenty-four entities from all over the territory. Therefore, there is a real will from some administrations to work on the issue. In addition, efforts are continuing to adapt the legal system to the new social reality. As has been mentioned here, efforts should be much more incisive and, in some ways, the proposal being put forward is one of them. It is necessary to focus on those areas where discrimination against HIV-positive people still persists today and, as proposed in the same text, on all aspects that impede equal opportunities and promote discrimination on any grounds with regard to discriminatory clauses contained in certain contracts, legal affairs, services or services in the private sphere. They are all actions that represent an advance, but let us not forget that they have as their main obstacle stigmatization and social discrimination, a factor that makes it difficult to deal with this issue with normality. Onusida warned as early as 2001 that HIV-related stigma could be the greatest obstacle faced by individuals, communities, politicians and religious leaders working on the response. According to Erving Goffman, a pioneer in the study of stigma, stigma is a brand associated with negative stereotypes that leads to a distinction between those who have it and others. Therefore, it is not a new matter. Communities have always marked those individuals who represent a risk to the survival of the majority. Therefore, stigmatized people are differentiated, undervalued and isolated, and this rejection limits their chances of life in terms of work, housing, interpersonal relationships and even access to health. Today it causes as much pain to the affected by the AIDS virus as the social rejection itself as the disease itself. A social stigmatization that, as very rightly collected this proposal of law, affects various groups, such as mental health, fibromyalgia itself and chronic fatigue syndrome, for example, or cancer itself. There are indeed many sectors and groups that are affected by this social stigmatization. The proposal to amend the General Law for the Protection of Consumers and Users raises as a second point the addition of a new final provision determining the application of the law to other diseases in respect of which exclusionary effects may be considered to apply. This is a breakthrough in itself. This second point interprets that there is a real will to work the bottom line of social stigmatization on these diseases. To finish, I want to do one last thought. In a competitive society like ours, where we are asked to give up 100 percent, which does not bear the error and where empathy leaves much to be desired, disease and even death itself are still perceived as a personal and social failure. In fact, what we are asking for today with this proposal - as with others in the same way - is a change in the cultural patterns that define our society and, therefore, behind there is a very important challenge. Social stigmatization makes a long-term social model survive for the social needs we have today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming the representatives of the Parliament of Navarre, where I was precisely twenty years ago developing my doctoral thesis on the subject we are going to discuss today, on HIV/AIDS. It was the end of the 1990s and by that time I wanted to analyze what the media were doing to normalize a problem that had then framed itself with a great social stigma. The history of HIV/AIDS in Western countries begins in the 1980s, from the consultation of a mysterious clinical cadre at the Atlanta CDC that in a short time is published both in The New England Journal of Medicine and in JAMA magazine, who make the mistake of saying that there are certain groups at great risk for a new virus. These scientific articles went to the national press very soon; in 1983 The New York Times took out its first cover and in 1986 - all will remember - Rock Hudson made his statement on HIV-positiveness. It was important because from there the Global AIDS Plan was launched. I believe that HIV/AIDS has been a privileged health problem and I will say why, because few health issues have managed to remain in the media for so long and have achieved so much resonance and such a great social impact through them. But the same thing that has had some advantages has had some disadvantages, because it is true that AIDS was initially framed with a great social stigma, a stigma that has cost and continues to cost a lot to eliminate, even though it has put a lot of effort into it. I don't know if you remember those campaigns that were made of 'AIDS is everyone' and the 'Pontel it, put it on' we had almost twenty-five years ago, or Philadelphia, a film that probably wouldn't happen today. AIDS has had an important presence on public agendas in the past decades, and it is true that today the administrations seem to go from point to point on a matter that, however, remains of rabid topicality. I would like to remind you today that Spain is the country in Europe where the most HIV infections occurred in 2015 and that the number of infections in our country has increased at a rate of 1.5%. A high number of citizens still do not know that they are infected with HIV, but the most serious thing is that those who know that they have to face barriers of access and stigmatization as serious as the one presented today with this change. Nor can it be said that citizens, who are a liberal party, will always combat any kind of discrimination, which takes place by gender, sex, race, religion and, of course, ideological reasons. It seems to us to be a flagrant injustice that these clauses continue to be retained in private contracts, but it seems to us more unfair that these exclusion clauses continue to be retained in contracts published by public administrations. [[Applauds]] HIV patients have problems accessing the National Police Corps, firefighters and civilian guards, because exclusion clauses still exist on the grounds of HIV/AIDS. And, gentlemen of the Navarro Parliament, let him look at it, because I bring here the call of the Foral Police on 28 March of this year where those clauses were present. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I do not know whether we are doing an act of cynicism or an act of social justice. These abusive clauses have been denounced by affected groups, such as Cesida, Felgtb, USO, and we have drafted a GNP to urgently eradicate them. And tomorrow we are going to amend a proposal put forward by the Socialist Group on diabetes in order to eradicate these clauses in public contracts. I hope that all of you will support my colleagues in the Health Committee tomorrow, as we are going to do today with the bill before this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u19	Mila esker, lehendakari andrea. Ongi etorri. [[Start your speech in Basque]] A warm greeting to my former colleagues in the Parliament of Navarre. Today we have a very interesting debate, which is that dichotomy between equality and the market, which also shows the power of what civil society in Navarre is. It has already been mentioned here that it was brought on the initiative of the Anti-AIDS Commission and SARE, and I would like to thank them for their many years of work with people affected by HIV. Amartya Sen, Nobel Prize in Economics, said that the important thing of all economic and social indicators is the capacities - beyond what is in the positive law, the ability of a person to act according to his needs and to develop according to them - and therefore that a Government must be judged by the specific capacities that the citizens under that Government can develop. This emphasized the positive freedom, the freedom to act, in the face of the negative freedom, which is to prohibit. If we set two concrete examples, he said that in Bengal, which was his native land, no one banned the peasants from buying food; the peasants were free to work. Now, another Nobel Prize winner, Churchill, whom many people like to name in this House, said that those foods were better served by the British state, in case the Japanese invaded Burma and Bangladesh. The peasants died of hunger, that is, with all the freedom to act possible that they could have at that time. [[Applauds]] Let's say Churchill took quite a care to forget this episode in his memoirs, which, on the other hand, also received the Nobel Prize. He's a nobleman today. We can talk about other recent examples. No one formally prohibits freedom of expression in Spain, but there are the Law gag or the Penal Code and, if you say some things, perhaps your ability to act is not all you should. Freedom, therefore, is such an excessively large word that we often look at the footer; and that footer, many times, is the small letter written on the back of some contracts and which, in fact, discriminates against people, in this case, who have HIV. With HIV there is a very clear question; I think that in this respect, as in a few, this disease has translated into a very medieval thought, that of'something will have done'. When I was fourteen years old, I heard in my house that someone said: nature always comes when we do things wrong. It was associated with the concept of sin and some of that stigmatization has continued to work, even though all medical advances are showing us that it is a chronic disease like any other. However, the market - that invisible hand - continues to discriminate against these people, which is what people who work with them tell us. If we want to look and we want to see, we need to talk to people who are directly in this situation, and they simply tell us that they have a lot of difficulty accessing goods or services when it turns out that other people don't have to wonder if we have any difficulty. This happens a lot, for example, when we want to ask for a mortgage, because many times they force us to have a life insurance; and to have a life insurance, they force us to declare whether we have any kind of illness; with this, many times the curious dilemma arises that if you want to buy a flat you have to not tell the truth - let's call it that - in the questionnaire that you pass, risking that after your life insurance or sickness insurance will be declared null. With this, curious dilemma which arises and which motivates this initiative of the Parliament of Navarre, what it intends to do is to emphasize the ability to act. We know - because we know - that putting this in the law is not going to lead to the disappearance of all these discriminations that have brought us and that are in the day-to-day lives of these affected people. But as a public administration, I think it's a step in the right direction, it's an ethical step, it's a step in social justice and, above all, it's an exemplifying step in what agents working in the market have to do, which is not to discriminate against people because of, in this case, their health. Therefore, that step must be taken. Just like that little letter of the contracts, with this, it's getting a little bit bigger. Simply, it is the step in the right direction to further expand the capabilities of all people. Nothing more. Mila esker anitz [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u21	Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to welcome the colleagues in the Navarra Foral Parliament who are accompanying us today to discuss this bill for the third time. Welcome and what a pity, Mr. Martinez, to hear from you some of the things you have said. The spokesman of the Socialist Party of Navarre is today in Navarre, precisely defending equal opportunities in access to public employment for all Navarras; that which you are squandering with the decrees and the way you govern. [[Applauds]] It is a pity that you, who tried to come to this Congress as a representative of the shipwrecks and shipwrecks denied your confidence, have used these five minutes to make public the government you call change, which is a change government, and you know it well because we have told you in the Navarra Foral Parliament. It is a government that continues the same line as the previous governments of UPN, trying to shock the identities of shipwrecks and shipwrecks, against each other and that instead of dedicating itself to economic and social change - which is for which the Socialist Party of Navarre has offered their hand and you have withdrawn it - you continue with this government of identity shock. I hope they change and the Socialist Party of Navarre can be part of that social and economic change that Navarre needs. Adhering to the subject of the proposal for a law, which is absolutely essential, is a six-year-old initiative of the Socialist Party of Navarre in the Foral Parliament of Navarre which comes back to this Congress today and which is as necessary as it was then. It is true that a great deal of progress has been made in the fight against AIDS for thirty-five years when the first case was identified in Spain in 1981, turning what used to be a lethal disease into a chronic infection that allows HIV-positive people to have an absolutely normalized life. The life expectancy of HIV-positive people in 1990 was forty years lower than that of a non-positive person; today the difference in life expectancy between a HIV-positive person is less than five years compared to a non-positive person. I want to remind you that the difference in life expectancy between a person who smokes and a person who does not smoke is thirteen years. It is therefore not justified that we continue to maintain in the legislation discrimination on grounds of HIV/AIDS or not that, as I say, neither are they justified by their risks of illness or death, besides that it is discrimination against any type of person absolutely unsustainable. I would also like to refer to and thank the fight against discrimination and stigmatization of people with HIV who have made associations such as the Anti-AIDS Citizen Commission, as associations of patients and platforms also of hepatitis C who are accompanying us today and whom I would like to thank for their presence in this House today because the struggle they have led for the equality of HIV-positive people or with any other kind of disease is unpayable. In addition to denying, as has already been said in this rostrum, access to certain types of contracts or financial instruments, access to public employment is today being denied because of the status of HIV/AIDS or the disease situation. That is why the Socialist Group is presenting tomorrow for debate and I hope that the Health Committee will adopt a non-legislative proposal to eliminate diabetes. We too will incorporate, because we have already done so in another non-law proposal, the condition of seropositivity and any other disease that does not justify being used as a cause of exclusion in access to public employment. This bill comes for the third time, it has already been said; it came in 2011 and 2013. In 2013 he was voted against by the People's Group. That is why today it is about justice, with the change of majorities that this Congress has, that we take this law forward, a law that affects millions of people because - it has also been said - it affects not only patients with HIV, but also, according to the request made of a bill, people with other diseases. There are 150,000 people who are HIV-positive, but there are also 400,000 people who are HIV-positive with hepatitis C; there are 5 million long people who have diabetes and another 5 million people who have glucose intolerance, and so we could continue to talk about people who, because of their illness or risk profile, are today discriminated against in access to certain financial instruments, such as health insurance or life insurance, which are not only necessary to cover their health impacts but also to access other types of loans such as mortgages or personal loans. I hope this time we can resolve this situation of discrimination, just now that we are seeing how President Trump in the United States is trying to bury President Obama's reform that, among other things, eliminated the condition of having a disease for access to health insurance; today, five months after he begins to rule, President Trump is trying to bury Obamacare's reform. This month, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, five years of your royal decree-law, the health decree, the one that you, like President Trump, took five months, since you entered the government in December 2011 until April 2012, in approving to curtail many of the health rights and to privatize the health. [[Applauds]] We want to tell you, and that you tell the Minister of Health, who is not here today, that, since she says she wants to draw the state pact for the health of the struggle between political parties, health does understand ideologies, that when the People's Party rules health rights are curtailed and health is privatized and when the Socialist Party rules rights are consolidated and public health is strengthened. That is why we also tell them that we are waiting for the call of the Ministry of Health to the Socialist Party to discuss and reach agreements on health and we are also waiting for the Ministry of Health once and for all to convene this Interterritorial Health Council, after five months of government, which are demanding all the autonomous communities, just as we ask them to withdraw the resources of unconstitutionality to many of the socialist autonomous laws that seek to defend the rights of all to public and quality health. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u22	Mrs Romero Rodríguez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet the representatives of the Parliament of Navarre who have come today to defend this text. Secondly, I am going to explain and clarify some questions about the lengthy processing, because it is already said in the very explanatory statement of the rule that it is long and tortuous. This law was passed by the Parliament of Navarre on 24 March 2011 with the vote against Nafarroa Bai, whose representative and some of those in that coalition are in groups here today. It was also debated in Congress on May 6, 2014, rejected with the vote against my group. It was then debated in the Parliament of Navarre again on 14 March 2013 and on 19 January 2016. The first law adopted by the Parliament of Navarre was introduced by the Socialist Group, which, despite having issued Royal Decree-Law 1/2007 as the Government of Spain, with the consolidated text of the Consumer and User Act, intended to amend it via the Parliament of Navarre. It was strange that the Socialist Party chose at that time to discuss a modification of the royal decree, the Parliament of Navarre, with absolute respect for its powers and powers. But since they dictated it from the Government of Spain they could modify it from the Government of Spain, because they had a lot of time. In fact, it is debated in Navarre on 24 March 2011 and it is not until December 2011 when the Government leaves us. Subsequently, with the Government of the People's Party, the consolidated text of the Consumer and User Act was re-amended on 27 March 2014 and Law 3/2014 was discussed here, and again the Socialist Group considered that this House did not need to discuss this issue and did not treat it as an amendment or introduce it into the text, even though it had previously defended it. The third issue to which I shall refer is the focus of the matter. This bill has a constant effect, and it is that people who are affected by HIV and AIDS are being discriminated against by life insurance, health or health care companies, which establish illegal and unfair barriers that prevent them from having equal access to certain types of contracts. We clearly voiced our rejection because we understood that the regulation adopted in March, just two months before the introduction of this law here in Congress, provided sufficient coverage; in fact, articles 82 and 86 of the consolidated text of the General Law on the Defence of Consumers and Users, considered discriminatory and illegal to be null and void abusive clauses that limit consumer and user rights, and recognized the right not to be discriminated against on the grounds of their disease as enshrined in the Spanish Constitution in its article 14. It is also related to its sanction that, with the powers of the Government of Navarre, it can apply to contracts in which those clauses are not complied with. We understand that when something is abusive and manifestly null it would not require an express request and clarification to declare it. However, today it has been repeated here by all the groups, and they say that it is practice repeated and so I have heard from the Adara Association of my province of Seville, that in practice, by some subterfuge, with Law 3/2014 they do not feel protected and they are faced with the de facto problem that they have barriers to access to rights in which they should never have been discriminated against: inequality by disease. Something extremely unfair and unconstitutional. We're going to support her, though she's still raising doubts about her second part. The aim of putting forward a closed list of diseases that can be considered to have the same exclusive effects on legal relations could turn us back to the same situation. We would be excluding hypothetical futures affected by diseases that may occur. AIDS was the 20th century pandemic. Let us hope that there will be none, but if we do not include in the law the possible pandemics of the twenty-first century, it is clear that we cannot establish closed lists because what is null and void is clear that it discriminates, and they will agree with me that it would again be paradoxical to find ourselves here with a new law every certain time that gives cover to new abusive and null assumptions for going against the principle of non-discrimination and equality that never, should never be reflected in contractual clauses. We believe that the solution for all persons who are unjustly discriminated against is the protection of the law and the Constitution. Let us not seek escapes and loopholes since we all defend equality and non-discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why I am asking everyone to think about this. If all those who are here representing the different constituencies of Spain, all people with their different ideologies, had the same conviction as my group that in democracy the norm is the guarantee and also the limit, and some, instead of supporting this principle, did not applaud their non-compliances, perhaps we would be much more useful to society by giving example to our behavior and avoiding situations of helplessness and re-editing of rules that force them to comply with the rules, which is what is happening in this House today despite all legal logic. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u24	Thank you very much. On behalf of the House, I would like to thank Mr Sayas, Mr Martínez and Mrs Medina for their speeches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u25	We turn to the agenda item on the consideration of the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, amending Act No. 14/2010 of 5 July 2010 on infrastructure and geographic information services in Spain. Mr Acedo Penco has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Act No 14/2010 of 5 July 2010 on geographical information infrastructures and services in Spain was adopted with the aim of laying down general rules in this field aimed at facilitating the implementation of policies based on geographical information by public administrations and the general access and use of this type of information, especially in environmental policies or actions that may have an impact on it. Following the enactment of this law, the European Commission requested additional information regarding the transposition of Directive 2007/2/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2007 establishing the spatial information infrastructure in the European Community into Spanish legislation. On the basis of this information, it has been considered desirable to make legislative changes in some of the articles of the law before us. The amendments aim to clarify some of the articles of this law, in order to comply with the full transposition of the above-mentioned European Directive. The definition of geographic information infrastructure is updated as the spatial data infrastructure with a virtual network structure consisting of georeferenced data and interoperable geographic information services, distributed in different information systems accessible via the Internet, including search and access technologies, rules for their production, management and dissemination, and agreements on sharing, access and use between their producers and between them and users. Public administrations shall ensure that all geographical data and related geographical information services, including codes and technical classifications, are made available to public authorities or third parties, in accordance with the implementing rules issued by the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this proposal for a law, it should be pointed out first of all that one of the reasons for this is undoubtedly to supplement, in the opinion of the European Commission, the insufficient transposition that Law 14/2010 has made of the above-mentioned European directive, but in our view the real importance lies in stating that this amendment, which is now being promoted, closes, completes and perfects a legal instrument that has been transcendent in the conception, implementation and development of the production of geographical information in our country, as on the other hand the implementation of the directive has been at regional level throughout the European Union. The law that this parliamentary initiative seeks to amend is intended - and to a large extent is already achieved - to establish at national level a network consisting of geographical data, therefore georeferenced and interoperable services of geographical information, which with a minimum of standardized protocols and specifications is accessible via the Internet. The significance of this statement becomes more visible if we point out that all the agencies of the State, of the autonomy and of the local administrations that produce and use geographical data are already modifying for some years their systems of production of geographical information in order to do so in accordance with the same implementing rules with which, pursuant to Law 14/2010, we are equipping ourselves. I'll give you some examples, ladies and gentlemen. The Directorate-General for Disaster in the definition and georeference of rural and urban land parcels; the Directorate-General for Water, Hydrographic Confederations or the Spanish Agricultural Guarantee Fund in areas as essential as river basin or flood zone maps or the management of European aid to agriculture; also transport facilities, networks and infrastructures, including roads, railways and air transport; also the management of emergencies or population settlements and their census references and many other examples, ladies and gentlemen, are some of the areas in which the various public administrations apply the guidelines of the European formula in an organized manner through this law. Nor can it be said that all the State bodies consulted in the process of legal modification that is now intended have cooperated and participated in its drafting, as have all the autonomous communities that are present in the Higher Geographic Council through their collegiate bodies and, finally, the Council of State itself. In short, as a summary of the above, it must be stated that the proposal for a law amending Law 14/2010 of 5 July 2010 is necessary and urgent in order to improve and complete the transposition of the relevant European directive and thus fulfil the mandate of the European Commission, but also, and above all, in order to help the Spanish public administrations to have a legal framework supporting infrastructures and geographical information services that are referenced at European level. As regards the legal aspects of the proposed legislation, I would like to recall briefly that in January 2013 the European Commission pointed out to the Kingdom of Spain that some provisions of the directive have been incorporated incompletely or have not been incorporated into the Spanish legal system. Accordingly, the Ministry of Development proposed to amend this law and drafted a preliminary draft law that is adapted to the requirements of the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment concerns the following five articles: Article 2 on the subjective scope of application, which is amended to include the concept of a third party; Article 3 on the objective scope of application defining the concept of special information infrastructure, is amended to include in the definition the obligation for mechanisms, processes and procedures to be made available, as required by the Directive; Article 4 on the functions in relation to the geographical information infrastructures of Spain, in this case, is amended to include two new functions to be carried out by the High Geographic Council; Article 6(2) on the rules to be complied with in the establishment of geographical information infrastructures and services, is amended to include the distinction concerning newly collected and widely restructured data and services, in addition, a reference is added to other existing spatial data still used; and finally, Annex I, referred to as reference geographical information, recasting Annexes 1 and 2 to the European Directive, is amended to incorporate the definition of the geographical grid system. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has made a commitment to the European Union to incorporate the amendments to this law into the legal system. Failure to comply with the deadline committed to the European Commission would result in the initiation of a pre-litigation procedure with a possible appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The proposed amendment to this law has complied with all legal procedures to amend a law with a law rank. The proposal prepared by the National Geographic Institute was submitted to the hearing of the Autonomous Communities, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and the Standing Committee of the Higher Geographic Council. Similarly, as I have already mentioned, reports were submitted to all State agencies, of which the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs, Employment, Development and Education issued reports without comment. For their part, the Ministries of Industry and Finance made observations that have been addressed. In addition, this change has been well informed by the Directorate-General for the Coordination of Competencies of Autonomous Communities and Local Authorities. Finally, the Council of State in plenary delivered a binding opinion without comment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the commitments entered into with the European Union make it necessary to amend Law 14/2010 of 5 July, in the terms included in this proposed law. But, above all, and as I said earlier, and I finish, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary and urgent to help ensure that the Spanish public administrations have a legal framework and have infrastructures and geographical information services that serve as a reference at European level. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u27	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first and foremost Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Group of the European People's Party proposes updating the law in force in Spain on infrastructure and geographic information services. It is a law of just seven years, but it needs to comply with a European directive establishing the spatial infrastructure and information ofInsPair. These adjustments may sound patchy, but it can be understood that technological advances force changes and it is even possible to reopen some discrepancies in competition because, in fact, they have already been reflected during the debates on the handling of this law in Congress and in the Senate. We have before us a legislative text on very specialized aspects which was adopted in 2010 and which now needs to be amended to bring Spain fully into line with the geographical information mechanisms established by the European Union. This is particularly important because it is equivalent to having relevant data in order to be able to take decisions, take measures and carry out actions that directly or indirectly affect the environment or infrastructure. The proposal of the Group of the European People's Party defended by Mr Acedo is, in any case, a legislative improvement that develops and modernises cartography as a public service in the 21st century. In Spain this service has as its reference date the September of 1880 with the foundation of the National Geographic Institute, an agency that was created as minister of Fomento the multifaceted José Echegaray, that years later would be the first Spanish to be invested with a Nobel prize, in this case that of Literature. The proposed amendments are necessary not only because we are obliged to comply with the European directives, but also because geographical information services are of enormous value for economic development, the environment, urban planning, traffic, etc., and with these changes the combination and compatibility of this information is encouraged in order to make this information much more operational in an area in which, well used, very substantial economic benefits and benefits are obtained both by productive increases and improvements in management, in the case of forestry, and by savings in the planning of transport systems and infrastructures. I shall vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador Armendáriz also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u30	Thank you, Madam President. I speak very briefly from the seat to announce our vote in favour of this bill. I would also like to express our support for the amendments to Law 14/2010 on geographical information infrastructures and services in Spain on the occasion of the transposition of Directive 2/2007 and of those corrections which I believe have so rightly been described. In any case, I would like to ensure that the identity marks of Law 17/2010 are not lost in the processing of this rule. In other words, that it retains its national character in all those aspects covered by the norm and which affect the geographical information of Spain as a country, everything that the norm offers, guarantees and regulates, hoping that the particularities that some always claim to separate, in this case, even from the point of view of the geography of this country, do not serve to stop the law from fulfilling its function of information in a joint and unitary way or may even invalidate its effectiveness precisely by compartmentalizing the information it presents. Even if it seems like a lesser norm, beyond the secessionist chimeras of some, today we can insist on the physical, geographical, administrative and political reality of our country; that is, today it is up to us to claim that we are a country and a single nation. We must affirm this with normality, albeit silently, in a debate like this in which a rule will be adopted that reflects it completely naturally. In any case, I would like to mention some expressions that contain the rule: connectivity, interoperability, integration, common access, shared information, harmonisation, integrated networks, pooling of agreements. These are expressions which are reflected in the standard and which apply to this subject, but which could well be applied to many other subjects of common interest. In any case - I conclude, Madam President - both the national geodetic networks and the official system of coordinates, the grid system, the toponymy of the basic geographical denominator, the territorial boundaries inscribed in the Central Register of Cartography or the National Inventory of Municipal Geographical References will maintain their nature and their functions despite the changes that we are going to make. In that spirit and with that assurance, Madam President, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u31	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u32	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Madam President. The truth is that I have come here to talk about a proposal to amend Law 14/2010 so that the transposition of Directive 2007/2/EC into Spanish law is fully implemented. This amendment concerns, as the rapporteur has already said, different paragraphs: Article 2(5) to define the concept of a third party; paragraph 3.1 to give a new wording to the definition of infrastructure and geographical information; paragraph 4.2, on the new functions of the Higher Geographic Council; paragraph 6.2, on technical standards for interoperability and harmonisation of geographical data; and, finally, paragraph 1 of Annex I, on the reference geographical information. I was going to say - I keep saying - that in its day the Basque Group voted against Law 14/2010 because it understood that it had a centralizing desire and now these changes, although small, only make it worse by mentioning new competences of the Higher Geographic Council and the capacities for data harmonisation. He said that this was what he was going to talk about and then some issues related to processing because he understood that there were certain defects that needed to be solved. However, I was greatly surprised by the statement made by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) in relation to this matter, as it merely blacked out the evidence of suspicion. The statement of reasons itself states that the amendment is due to the fact that, following the enactment of this law, the European Commission requested additional information in relation to the transposition of the directive and precisely when such information was given it was considered desirable to make legislative changes in some articles of Law 14/2010. That being the case, it is a matter which should have led the Government to make a proposal for a law, since it is up to the Government to put forward a background and give sufficient information to this Parliament to be able to position us in relation to the need, if it is believed, to transpose a directive. However - I should like to make this clear because I am not entirely sure - he has commented that this information is a requirement of the Commission and that there is a report that points out the points that need clarification, on which the Ministry of Development has processed certain requests for information from geographical institutes, coordinating bodies of autonomous communities and local corporations. There is even a report from the Council of State - it was to be claimed -. I was going to ask why it hadn't been done, but you're telling me it's already done. In other words, everything that the Government should have done to bring the bill here has been done beforehand and yet we are faced with a bill from a parliamentary group, even one that supports the Government. We are therefore faced with a procedural fraud. It's as simple as that. This, in my view, is the result of a major confusion, first of all of the political responsibilities of the Government and of the parliamentary group that supports it, so it can only be described as a paradigmatic case of political opportunism. Secondly, it is not possible to formulate such initiatives without taking into account the legal requirements. We do not know anything about the existence of this information and we do not know anything about the existence of the report of the Council of State which is mandatory for dealing with this type of adaptation at the request of the European Commission. Nor do we know why this bill is being taken into consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, the adaptation of a directive is simply the need to incorporate into national law the requirement of certain rights which are already consistent with national law. If the Government were not taken into consideration, it would have to re-formulate the same initiative, but with the legal requirements that I have commented on. So why are you bringing her in now? I don't understand. We believe that the supplantation of the executive's duties by the political group that supports it is unacceptable. I thought it might be to avoid a certain degree of processing, but from what you have commented there is already such processing. Therefore, if we were no longer to support this initiative because we understood that it was a fraudulent position of the political group that underpins the Government's obligations, we are now necessarily forced to vote against that political attitude, which we believe is unacceptable. It is not because of the content of the bill that you have brought to this House, but because of the attitude you express by supplanting the Government in its own functions. Nothing more, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u33	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u34	Very late, ladies and gentlemen. Someone said that the veteranship was a degree, and the truth is that taking more than one legislature in this House teaches you many things; some are good and others are not so good, but there are two that never fail. The first is that whenever it is legislated, either from the right or from a supposed left, it takes advantage of it to re-centralize, homogenize and destroy and break down the competences. The second is that when European directives are transposed they are done as they want and when they want. It is clear that today it could not be otherwise with this proposed law amending the Law on Infrastructure and Geographic Information Services in Spain. In 2010 the Spanish State passed this law to transpose the directive. At that time he ruled the Socialist Party, and they once again took advantage of it to limit the autonomy of autonomous cartographic institutes. They didn't get it, but they did take a couple of lawsuits that were won from the Cartographic and Geological Institute of Catalonia, but this is already past water. The proposal for a law that we are debating today responds to the demands made on them from Europe, of which the previous Members and Members have already spoken. From our point of view, first of all, they should rightly motivate the reason for this change. It's not worth saying A when it's B. The text describes that 'after the enactment of this law, the European Commission requested additional information in relation to...'. And then it is added that 'on the basis of that information, it has been considered convenient...'. I mean, ladies, convenient, nothing. Esquerra Republicana believes that this was not the information that motivated the amendment of this law, but that it was precisely the analysis carried out in this case by the European Commission of the information that you have sent them, and therefore the recommendations - not to say demands - that the Commission has transferred to the Government for amendment. We therefore propose - it would be very good - that the wording of the motivation be changed, adapting it more to the reality of what has actually happened. After an analysis of the proposed amendments to Law 14/2012 of 5 July, we find that there are errors or neglects, such as forgetting to correctly define the concepts used in the text itself, such as the concept of a third person, which comes out on multiple occasions. But the most important thing is that they are required more from Europe, and when I say more I want to say that they are required more concretely. They are demanding more transparency, concrete deadlines for implementation and, above all, guarantees. It is necessary to ensure by law that all the information generated is made available to citizens, with consistency and clearly within a specific time frame. They also call for dialogue with border countries, basically so that there is something so normal about what we are talking about as consistency in data. I would remind you that the Inspire Directive was created to ensure that the spatial data infrastructures of the Member States must be justly compatible and inoperable with a Community and cross-border context; if we do not do the right thing, it is impossible for this to be done. Since we have always been pioneers in the cartographic field since Catalonia, we are already doing our homework, and I want to explain it to you very quickly. The Institut Cartogràfic and Geològic de Catalunya is incorporating the Inspire Directive into its processes. In fact last autumn, four days ago, together with the European Commission, the Institut Cartogràfic i Geològic de Catalunya, co-organized by the National Geographic Institute, held from 26 to 30 September 2016 the Conference on the applications of the European Inspire Directive in Barcelona. The main sponsors were the Generalitat and the Diputació de Barcelona, together with national and international companies. It was a real success, I invite you to check it by simply entering the website and investigating what this conference was. So, put on the batteries. We were going to abstain, but after listening to Mr. Salvador the truth is that I don't know if what we would have to do is vote against. In any case we will think about it, but I must finally say that we regret that they have not taken advantage of this amendment of the law - as was to be expected - to eliminate some re-centralizing concepts which, as always, are part of its nature when it comes to legislation. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Acedo, of the People's Parliamentary Group, brings us today a proposal for a law based on a transposition of the European directive which we will now be commenting on. But before I start talking about the transposition of this directive, I would like to talk about what this means. We are talking about geographic information services, we are talking about our cartography, we are talking about our maps, which in the end is only the graphic representation of our territory, of our toponymy, of our geographical wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that there are some who like to see borders marked and that after that border there is nothing. Gentlemen of Esquerra or PNV, I understand that you are continually wanting to divide. When I was a little girl, I was passionate about geographic information, seeing geographic maps, seeing the geographic atlas, not the politician, the atlas where there were no borders, where one could wander freely, where one could follow the course of a river without thinking whether that river was going through one country or another, one region, one province or another. They're obsessed with the political side of this. [[Applauds]] They don't want to see anything else. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's not like this. This goes from geographical information, from our wealth, from the wealth of a country, from the wealth that is of everyone. Or is it that the wealth of a divider, the wealth of a wanderer is someone's property? Is it that when someone sees from one division a wandering of one region, of one province or of a municipality, and on the other side of the other, he says: look, there goes my province, this is the limit of my region or this is the limit of my municipality? That's from tremendous poverty, please. We are already in the 21st century and we are talking about European cartography, world cartography. We talk about networks that are global, we talk about GPS positioning systems or UTM coordinates, which are international. Do we want to return to the localism of our unit of measure? [[Laughter]] Laugh, gentlemen of the PNV, but you want to go back to the localism of your unit of measure, to put the stone here and say: this stone from here is mine, and from here even this stone remains mine, and it is not yours there. [[Applauds]] That's what you want. It's all right with so much history. We can't go on like this. That's nothing but excuses. Here we have heard legal excuses, we have heard political excuses, like that the cartography that is done in Catalonia is better. See you Spain has the best cartographers since the 18th century, the best European cartographers, and here there is no difference by the place of birth of each of the cartographers. Since the 18th century the best European cartographers were here in Spain, and they were for everyone. There's no difference between whether this line is mine and that line is yours. You are talking about the maps that the National Geographic Institute is generating, of large scale denominator maps. But what are we talking about? In a 1:100,000 you want to see where the line is? Do you want to see where the line is at 1:250,000? Is that what you care about? [[Applauds]] It's not like this. But, Mr Acedo, I must also say that legal excuses are not practical either. Law 14/2010 was created to incorporate the European Community's 2007 Directive into law. Check from 2007 to 2010. We did it three years later. We should have incorporated that directive by 15 May 2009. It is incorporated into our legal system in 2010 and in 2017 we want to retouch and reform it, because we have realized that it is not well transposed. I understand that this geographical information does not interest many, but that it has been seven years without anyone realizing that we have to update the 2010 law I think it is not to be thinking about the things that interest some citizens, and especially some businesses. Geographical information is a wealth for companies. Thanks to these geographic information systems we all have today a GPS in our car; thanks to this we can geomarketing; our companies can compete with another better to offer a good service, to offer consumers close services, services that interest them more, that are closer to their homes. That is why this law favours the market, favours industry, and it seems that nobody in this country has so far fallen on account that the evolution of geographical information services ultimately benefits all our companies. We compete in a globalized world, we compete in a world in which today cartography is not mine - no matter how much some want - neither yours nor anyone else's. GPS-based mapping services are available to anyone. Today you take and buy cartography for your vehicle and purchase for all of Europe, for Africa, if you have to go to Africa, or for Oceania. And it's not about who produced it, it's about the use we make of that mapping. That's what we think's important. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it seems good that you have brought this bill, but I agree with the members of the PNV that you do not understand how you bring this as a bill and not as a bill, if all the legal mechanisms for this to be adapted have to come through a bill. In this case you are right, Mr Barandiaran, but this only makes it clear that the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group have no project for the citizens beyond what their Government does. Gentlemen of the People's Party, as you bring this as a bill to this House since the start of the legislature, we have brought urgent reforms of self-employment, another proposal for a comprehensive law against corruption and the protection of whistleblowers, and a third on the rights and guarantees of dignity of people before the end of life, and that is because we have no more quota, because if we have more quota we would have brought you seven more now, man, seven more, and you are the only thing that you can bring here. [[Applauds]] Something they didn't even have to bring up as a bill, but as a government bill. Finally, we will vote in favour of this bill because it seems to us that it is important for our companies, but I would say to them that please do not drag your feet any more; do not drag your feet into this legislature anymore, which always go with the ronzal pulling, pulling and pulling to get something for the citizens, something that really is effective for all the citizens. [[Protests by Mrs Villalobos Talero]] Thank you, Mrs. Celia; great.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u38	Really, bring something that is for all citizens; and bring something that please is topical and not something that you should have brought seven years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u39	Mr Alonso Cantorné has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. [[Rumors]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that I too am surprised, because we understood that this should have been a bill and not a bill. I guess the People's Party wants to win some law proposal; I guess that's it. But after listening to the spokesman for Citizens, I was transferred, because we obviously didn't talk about what he was playing. But, well, it's okay; I think it's time to get to the river course that you've jumped, you've overflowed, and I think it's important to situate what we're talking about. We are talking about that a geographic information infrastructure is a virtual, networked structure, consisting of geographical data, and therefore georeferenced, and interoperable services distributed in different information systems, under the responsibility of management of different public or private sector entities, which is accessible via the Internet at least, with standardized protocols and specifications, which are established in order to facilitate access to all such data. The amendments we are talking about are aimed at clarifying some of the articles - as mentioned here - of Law 14/2010 of 5 July, in order to comply with the full - now yes - transposition of the European directive establishing a spatial information infrastructure in the European Community, Inspire. The Inspire Directive lays down general rules for the establishment of a spatial information infrastructure in the European Community, the main objective of which is to provide relevant, homogeneous and quality geographical information in order to support the formulation, implementation and evaluation of Community policies. The Inspire Directive recognises the fact that most quality spatial information is produced and available at local and regional level, but that such information is difficult to use in a wider context. The most important problems in Europe's space information situation are fragmentation, lack of homogeneous information between Member States and duplication of efforts in data creation, as well as problems in identifying and accessing existing information. In order to be able to cope with these difficulties, Inspire sets us principles, which are: the data must be collected only once and kept at the level where maximum effectiveness is achieved; it must be possible to combine geographical information with complete continuity for Europe from diverse sources and compartmentalize it between users and applications; it must be possible for the information collected at one level to be shared at other levels; the geographical information must be abundant and available under conditions that do not inhibit its extensive use; it must be easy to discover the geographical information available and under what conditions it can be obtained and used; the geographical data must be easy to understand and interpret. In accordance with these principles Inspire visions a distributed network of information repositories united by standards and protocols that ensure the compatibility and interoperability of data and services, regardless of administrative boundaries, thereby creating the technical part of the spatial data infrastructure. Technological innovation and the development of new methods have multiplied the geographical information available. In the last decade we have witnessed a revolution in systems of access to geographical data. In addition to Spain's spatial data infrastructure, there are thirteen other spatial and thematic data infrastructures at the national level - Disaster, watersheds, biodiversity, urban planning, social resources -, 17 regional and many more regional and local. Thus, users have a very comprehensive set of spatial data infrastructures that facilitate geographic research. In this context, geographers are not only users of these infrastructures, they are also producers of new geographical information that is subsequently integrated into these platforms, and the amendments to the law that are being proposed must improve what has been done so far; therefore, gentlemen of the People's Party, we will vote in favour. Thanks to geographical information, for example, we can see social fractures and inequality reflected in a map. Yesterday a report was published by the City Council of Madrid in which the black reality that exists between the rich and poor neighborhoods appeared in colors. Life expectancy in Madrid depends on whether you live on one side or the other of Manzanares. In Barcelona city, the Barcelona Public Health Agency, which has been concerned about these issues of the social gap for more years, in 2012 we were told that a person from Ciutat Vella lived an average of eight years less than one from Sant Gervasi, that in 2015 that strip continued to expand to eleven years between Torre Baró and Sant Gervasi, and that the risk of suffering from anxiety depression was four times higher in a woman with an unskilled job than in a man with a high management job. Geographical information will certainly help us to detect problems, but not to solve them. It does not depend on geography, but on politics, and with you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party in government, I do not see that that inspires you or that it is your north. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u41	Thank you very much. Mr De la Encina Ortega has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Just over ten years ago, the general approach across Europe was to market geographical data at considerable rates, and it was clear that it was not easy to modify a culture in a short time to overcome this inconvenience, because, ladies and gentlemen, one of the main obstacles to the delivery of data and services under open conditions is simply resistance to change, which always appears to be an obstacle in all processes of technological revolution and paradigm shift. That is why the European Parliament and the Council adopted on 14 March 2007 the directive establishing a space infrastructure in the European Community, Inspire, the fundamental objective of which was to establish a geographical information infrastructure for the European Union that would serve us all to adopt measures relating to policies and actions that directly and indirectly affect the environment. The transposition of this directive, as has already been mentioned, took place in 2010. I had the honour, as chairman of the Committee on Development, to process this bill on 28 April 2010, and I can tell you first of all, ladies and gentlemen, by reminding the House that that was then a rule agreed not only by the People's Group and the Socialist Group, but also with the support of other minority groups, albeit with some resistance, for what has been expressed here, by the nationalist parties. Ladies and gentlemen, there were five drafts of five ministries and all the autonomous administrations participated. Today, seven years later, it can be said - not as a spokesman for the Socialist Group, but for the last Inspire report of 2015 - that this law that we Socialists did with the agreement of the People's Party has been an operational, modern, open and foresight rule, which has achieved a modern and efficient concept in public administrations by establishing a network service for the citizen. Mr Acedo pointed out some examples. I'm going to give some more to make them realize the magnitude of what we're talking about. Organizations such as the General Directorate of Disaster have been able to observe, through their indicators of use, the spectacular increase in access to the electronic headquarters of the Disaster, so that it has increased from 270,000 visits in 2003 to 150 million consultations in last year's cartography; 132 million individual petitions in the services of the Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Food; 950 million petitions in the space data infrastructure services in Catalonia, and 7 million petitions in the services of the National Geographic Institute from 2013 to 2015. You know why? Because a participatory project was made with a culture of computing, data release and services very important, counting on the generation of a large ecosystem of standard and interoperable services, with the emergence of cases of use of useful applications in various sectors, such as the Catastro that I have just referenced, routing, mobile mapping, network applications, etc. In short, a community of actors who have acted in a very fluid way, consisting of different public bodies in the three areas, national, regional and local, as well as private companies, universities and citizens. We therefore agreed with the Socialist Parliamentary Group in 2010, when we adopted this law, the fundamental objective of which was nothing other than to transpose the European directive requiring all Member States to unify certain geographical information and make it available to a specific computer infrastructure, and we are going to do the same now for consistency seven years later, because we agree with the changes in the consideration of the proposed law amending Law 14/2010. Ladies and gentlemen, if you read it you are dealing with small points in some articles so that we can continue to comply with the full transposition of the 2007 Inspire Directive. From the reading of that modification of articles it is seen that in some cases - I say so for you to read it - a 'y' is deleted and instead it is passed to an 'o'. These are the lowest rank. Two new paragraphs are laid down in Article 3, but they have been transposed over the years and must therefore be adapted. Finally, a second paragraph is inserted in Article 6, adding'recently and extensively restructured collections and corresponding ones' between the paragraphs being moved. I therefore believe that approving this consideration should not pose any problem if, Mr Acedo, coordination with the autonomous bodies and communities continues to work, as in recent years, and not trying, as some parliamentary group has suggested in its intervention, to reduce competence in the effective functioning that has taken place during these seven years in the implementation of Law 14/2010, and which has placed Spain as a modern country in the field of geographical information services. We want it to continue like this. That is why we will support it, but we note that we will not tolerate any different situation that distorts the momentum that has been given to our country in all infrastructure and geographic information services. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u43	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u44	We shall now turn to item III of the agenda, on non-legislative proposals. Firstly, the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the promotion of the reduction of lateness in commercial operations. Mrs López Ares has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gutiérrez, we have a project in the People's Party. In the People's Party we have a project, we have principles, and perhaps that's why they vote for us more than you. [[Applauds]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us wait a few weeks and see you. The green outbreaks of economic recovery are about to reach the Spanish economy, said in May 2009 the Vice President of the Government and Minister of Economy, Elena Salgado. In the same year, Cepyme's president complained that the severe restrictions on access to credit, together with the sharp contraction of demand, had led to a significant percentage of companies closing down. Approximately 67,000 companies disappeared in 2009, with chains of lateness contaminating all economic activity leading to the closure of these companies. Among the delays in payments were those between administrations and the business sector, which according to the Banco de España was around 145 days. And given this situation, the Socialist Party government gave up its role in the fight against late payment, and it had a very negative impact, especially on small and medium-sized enterprises. While waiting for green outbreaks, latex was the direct cause of the disappearance of 61,642 small and medium-sized enterprises between 2007 and 2012, causing the destruction of some 600,000 jobs according to Cepyme's reports, with a particular impact on the closure of enterprises on the lateness of public administrations. And this is the situation faced by the People's Party in December 2011: a declared deficit of 6% when the real deficit exceeded 9%; with autonomous communities and broken municipalities that were unable to access credit; with bills in the drawers, and with millions of unpaid bills that led to companies, especially SMEs and self-employed, to closure, and especially the Spanish, three and a half million Spaniards, to the lists of unemployment. In view of this situation, a specific plan for the eradication of late payments in the public sector, with short-term and structural measures, was launched in 2012. 41,814 million euros, I repeat: 41,814 million euros; more than eight million unpaid invoices; 230,000 suppliers, mostly SMEs and self-employed, to whom those 42,2 billion euros were owed and to whom those eight million invoices corresponded. And their payment was Mariano Rajoy's Government's commitment to the fight against late payment; the Supplier Payment Plan; the Autonomic Liquidity Fund; funding funds for autonomous communities and local entities. These latter funds have amounted to more than €236 billion in liquidity for the Autonomous Communities. These short-term measures are estimated to have maintained 400,000 jobs and will lead to a medium-term growth in gross domestic product of 3 %. But the structural measures must be added to them: the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability; the measures that were set to control commercial debt; the e-invoice was boosted and the accounting record of public sector invoices was created. And according to the data released in the last published report, the Autonomous Communities have an average payment period of 25.45 days; the large local entities 59.71 days; the Central Administration 23.74 days and 7.03 days Social Security. This Government has done and is doing everything possible to reduce the delay, and hence the importance of the adoption in this House of the new law on public sector contracts. But together with the lateness of public sector enterprises, it is necessary to work to reduce the lateness of the private sector. In this regard, according to the credit risk management study developed for the Cash Management Observatory of the Institute of Enterprise in 2016, 74% of companies suffer the negative consequences of default, 31% suffer significant defaults and 13% are at risk of closure due to defaults. Moreover, while the first case declared as a reason for late payments remains the lack of availability of funds, 47 % continues to state that delays are intentional, as a measure of the treasury management policy. Faced with the latter is what needs to be done. According to the December 2016 newsletter on late payment and corporate financing published by Cepyme, economic recovery has reduced the average payment period, the percentage of credit in arrears and its cost. However, the delayed commercial debt is estimated at more than 200,000 million, with a cost of approximately 869 million euros for small and medium-sized enterprises. This report also affects the negative relationship between the size and the payment period, thus showing the existence of a correlation between these two variables which seem to reflect the different bargaining power, so that larger companies impose higher payment periods. This is why we understand from the People's Parliamentary Group that it is necessary to consider measures aimed at establishing a sanctioning regime that serves as a deterrent to the deliberate delay in payments; proportionate and non-discriminatory measures, as well as the importance of targeted publicity campaigns. That is why we have proposed these actions in our electoral programme, and it is also one of the points of agreement in the commitments signed by our party and Citizens for the investiture of the President of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. In the People's Parliamentary Group we firmly believe that the best way to combat lateness, and above all its consequences on the business fabric and employment, is economic growth, but we also believe in the role of administrations as facilitators of business activity. This task is framed by this non-legislative proposal which aims to continue to work towards the elimination of obstacles and imperfections, such as slowness, which undermine the competitiveness of our economy and make it difficult to achieve the ultimate objective, which is nothing other than economic growth and job creation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u46	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, I have the floor, first of all, by the Joint Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. The People's Group has put forward a non-legislative proposal which, in its explanatory statement, certainly points to one of the main evils facing the business economy, and thus the maintenance and creation of jobs. As Mrs López Ares has just pointed out, commercial lateness is a major obstacle in the lives of our companies. However, the two measures proposed by this initiative seem insufficient to the Forum, and we have therefore tabled an amendment extending the mandate to the Government that can leave this House. In Spain, slowness, whether private or public, complicates and strangles the existence of companies, especially SMEs, which are together with the self-employed on which the bulk of employment is based. It is therefore necessary to implement measures to extend and supplement the legislative text adopted in 2010 to combat late trading, curb defaults, and to accompany the competitiveness of our companies in economic growth in order to promote job creation, our main need and our high political priority. There is also a wide sense of uncoordinatedness in anti-morosity initiatives, and in fact business organisations have been warning about this. Our amendment seeks to ensure that Spain has a sanctioning system for non-payments and their application through an independent body similar to that already applied in the agri-food sector. We also believe that there is a need to amend the Retail Trade Management Act to eliminate the possibility of trading within the time limits for payment to suppliers, because it contradicts the current Morosity Act and harms small supplier companies vis-à-vis large chains. It is found that larger companies have equivalent bargaining power and end up imposing higher payment periods. Finally, we believe that it is necessary for the Ministry of Finance and Public Service to carry out a thorough monitoring of compliance with the payments established by our legislation in both the public and private spheres, as well as a culture of good practices to be implemented in Spain. I do not want to end without mentioning, in relation to the lateness experienced by self-employed workers in 2016, that 80% of public administrations failed to meet the legal deadline by paying from average to seventy-two days, which was extended by more than one hundred days in the case of large companies. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u48	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon again, Members of Parliament. We announce to the Group of the European People's Party, which is proposing this non-legislative proposal, that we will vote in favour of this initiative. In any case, we have to say that it is loaded with good intentions but also that it lacks concrete measures. What I do think is essential - let us see what arises from the debate on the amendments tabled - is to see how it will be discerned between those who exercise a dominant position vis-à-vis small suppliers and those who really cannot pay or have debts for that Treasury tension that some companies have. I would like to point out that the best policy from the public administrations' point of view must be to comply with the law as regards the average payments to suppliers by public administrations and that the time estimated by the law, which is less than thirty days, is complied with by all these administrations. I have to tell you, at least for the data we control from the Ministry of Finance, that in 2015 Navarra had an average payment to 20-day suppliers, being the first community in all of Spain, when the state average payment to suppliers is around sixty days. Therefore, from political and public responsibility, it is the public administrations that have to set an example for small suppliers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u50	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u51	Thank you, Madam President. We applaud measures such as this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to raise awareness of the need to comply with payment deadlines for suppliers because late payment is a glitch in the economy. It is never too late if the bliss is good, they say, because we are sincerely surprised how you, who in municipalities like Valencia took up to fifty-seven days to pay their suppliers, now intend to reduce these deadlines. We agree that the effort should be made, but we do not understand that a non-legislative proposal is coming in which they urge their own Government to take measures such as - in quotes - 'to study measures', 'to carry out dissemination campaigns' and other evanescent expressions that sincerely sound like a smoke sale to some levels that we do not understand. We want to talk about actions because politics is action. With regard to payment to suppliers, in municipalities where you are fortunately no longer ruling, as is the case with Valencia, we have managed to reduce these times and, to this day, the city pays its suppliers to a week's notice, but, for example, in November last year we got the record to pay only in 2.2 days, a record that was published in the written press and that was reflected, according to data from the ministry: 2.2 days late in payment compared to the fifty-seven that you were delaying. Actions that we do not see in this proposal can be done many. For example, we can get the administration to be imposed some penal clauses for each day of non-compliance on the payment of the amounts it owes. Or you can set up a single paying cashier that pays quickly when submitting invoices and compliance accreditation. Or one can try to generalise bail insurance among individuals, doing so progressively and starting with the most sensitive economic areas. Either guarantees or guarantees can be generalised on first demand or first request. Or we can bet on a telematic mediation process for small claims. We can put in place this and many other measures to combat the deliberate delay in payments. The imposition of sanctions was already contained in the package of measures agreed between the People's Party and Citizens for Mr Rajoy's investiture. Therefore, we see that now you are trying to comply with the file with this proposition not of rather raquitic law, but nothing more. We are wary of the will of the People's Party to introduce measures that correct lateness. For example, we still have this invoice pending from Feria Valencia for an amount of 568,511 euros earned by the National Congress of the People's Party in 2008, the year in which Mr Rajoy was invested as a candidate for the Presidency of the Government, an invoice that has not been paid, which is in the courts and which brings a lot of blush to the Valencians. [[Show a photocopy]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u52	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u53	In short, we want actions, not intentions. We are going to support this non-legislative proposal, but we also want to see actions to reduce the lateness not only of companies, but also of public administrations, also of public interest entities such as parties so that everyone pays what you owe, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u54	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Study measures to establish a sanctioning regime, carry out specific publicity campaigns to raise awareness and bla, bla, bla... It's laughing, hey, laughing! Disappointing and rachitic proposed by the PP that shows not being aware of the importance of the effects of lateness on business competitiveness, especially of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a conversion magnet and, for the most part, without even showing the fury of the convert. The Esquerra Parliamentary Group has already put forward various initiatives in this House in relation to the lateness for which we have not yet seen the Government feel concerned: in the previous failed legislature, a GNP that voted against; in this legislature, a proposal for a law that is currently being hibernated while it is being transposed to proposals for amendments to the Contracts Act, which we will see in what direction they are voting. If it is not a beacon, if it is not an attempt to neutralize the bad reputation that the PP has gained at the heart of the world of subcontractors of the great contractors of works and public services, it is a small piece of paper to cover up the shame. And if not, prove it, address the problem, face it with more than just studying measures and carrying out outreach campaigns. Our amendments make it easy for them. In other words, we propose to them once and for all to establish a sanctioning regime that serves as a deterrent to the deliberate delay in payments. We propose to encourage changes in legislation to ensure strict compliance with the payments of contracting contractors for public contracts. We propose to encourage measures to ensure that interest is paid on an ex officio basis. Establish a methodology for making direct payments from the contracting authorities and contractors to subcontractors. They shall ensure the transposition and enforcement of Directive 2011/7/EU on late payment, laying down measures to combat late payment in commercial transactions at all points. We propose to adopt the methodology for calculating the average payment time used by Eurostat at European level and by reference entities, such as the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity. We propose to them, in the end, to promote a state observatory of lateness. Because if all your interest is reduced to studying measures and carrying out publicity campaigns, it will be evident that you, in this serious problem that swells one's results accounts and destroys the viability of others, do not go beyond a poor declaration of intentions while covering up the legalized lateness of the great contractors. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u56	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u57	President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Mrs López Ares, I will be honest with you: if I were a small businessman, if I were a SME in this country I would really feel ashamed to see that your Government is bringing a proposal like this to this House. Hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs in this country are with water around their necks and every day they close the blind because the public administration, their government, does not pay them; well, their government and some other big company in this country. [[Applauds]] What does it mean that you bring a GNP with no legal relevance and no legislative power to change things? They are urging their own Government to consider changing one day, if the stars cross, the regulation to simply adjust the incentives so that these companies can charge what is owed to them. It is fair that businesses in this country can compete on an equal footing. You're the government, so stop urging yourselves to change things and make them because that's what you're here for. That's what they're here for. [[Applauds]] What they have to do is to enforce the law and stop bringing into this House proposals that confuse people, that try to send a wrong message and generate false expectations. Do you know what is the main concern, according to the latest indicators, of all the SMEs in this country? It is precisely the tremendous lateness that they suffer, the lack of payments that they suffer from the administration and four large companies. In the explanatory statement you explain it very well. They say that in this country there was a drought of credit and that suddenly those with market power managed to take advantage of the circumstances, that large companies began to finance themselves at the expense of small companies and that the Administration began to finance themselves at the expense of small companies in order to be able to continue their activities, with the small problem that hundreds of thousands of jobs in this country were taken along the way because they were unable to react in time and offer answers. Projects and personal dreams of thousands of Spaniards have gone to waste because they have not been able to charge what was owed to them. You say that after so many years things have changed a lot. Unfortunately, we're still the same and I'm going to show you a graph. Some companies - in this case builders - continue to pay over 300 or 400 days. What do these companies have? Why do these companies pay so late? Why? They are companies that have many benefits. What's the reason, gentlemen of the People's Party? The average payment - with this end - of the companies is seventy-seven days and that of the Administration is seventy-one days. The law says it would have to be thirty, so you are more than twice as much as you would be touched. I suggest that you stop proposing studies and imagining plans and start doing things. Put your batteries on, that's what's up to you. In Citizens we really care about that circumstance and that is why in the Contracts Act we have amended several chapters; a law that can change things so that there really exists that sanctioning regime that Mr Montoro has been promising for five or six years, although you here again today bring us a PNL saying that you may be studying the possibility that it will be implemented. Accept our amendment to the Contracts Act and stop doing the show, which for shows and fireworks we already have here a game in the House. [[Applauds]] This problem is a deeper problem, a structural problem that you have. For me being a liberal means defending individual freedom and freedom of enterprise, but it also means defending equal opportunities in the market and fighting against the privileges that exist by force of market power. That you have been unable to do because you have lived in the economy of the capitalism of friends. Ladies and gentlemen, please put in place the mechanisms to implement this law as soon as possible. Otherwise - and here I announce a commitment from my group - we will bring a law of lateness to put an end to the injustice and impunity suffered by small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people in this country. For the time being we have amended the GNP that you have brought us to implement immediately - and not to study - the regime that we have been proposing and which was also in our agreement. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u58	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u59	Good afternoon, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. There are many evils that affect the productive economy of our country and we do not need to list them because we do so continuously: the scarce purchasing power of the population due to unemployment, precariousness, low wages, unfair fiscal policy, the disappearance of industry, the brake on renewable energies that would allow us to transition to cleaner and cheaper energy, etc. We already know all this, but there is a scourge that plays a destructive role in the real economy, which is lateness. In other words, companies that buy goods and services but do not pay them within the time limit set by law, which is sixty days. Despite legislative advances in recent years, the result of pressure from civil society and platforms such as the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity, this remains a terrible burden on our economy and our productive fabric. The consequences of lateness fall on the backs of self-employed and small businesses, which generate most of the employment in our country and on which the lives of millions of people depend, but which suffer from repeated breaches of legislation by large corporations. For example, the average payment period for IBEX 35 companies is one hundred and sixty days, when I have already said before that the maximum legal period is sixty; almost three times that. All this, of course, without any consequence, since our country has no sanctioning regime in this regard. In practice, late payment, non-compliance with the law and blackmail - because it is blackmail - to fraudulently stretch payment deadlines to suppliers is a form of covert financing for large companies and a rope around the neck for the real economy. Conclusion: the IBEX 35 does business illegally with the money of small businesses and the autonomous of our country, 2.8 billion euros between financial savings and interest delays. As always, the triple alliance government acts with an iron fist against the working people, against those below and against the weakest, and with silk gloves with the powerful who violate the law. How can the government allow all this? Well, I can think of an idea, and I'm gonna put a few facts on the table. The ranch of large companies that jump the law to the bulldozer is headed by the builder Ferrovial, with 536 days of average payment term. Awesome. In second place in the Champion League of Morosa companies is Acciona, with 425 days. Remember well, Acciona, and here we link. Reviewing the board of directors of Acciona we meet doña Carmen Becerril, former Director General of Energy Policy and Mines of the Ministry of Industry of the Government of José María Aznar of the People's Party. What a coincidence! Or maybe it has something to do with it. We continue with another relevant fact. When the agents of the Central Operational Unit of the Civil Guard registered the home of the manager of the People's Party in those years, Mr Beltrán Gutiérrez, in the context of the Punica case, found documentation that allegedly showed that Esperanza Aguirre and the People's Party won the 2007 elections fraudulently with the invaluable aid of 3 million euros in black money. That is institutional respect as God commands. Do you know by whom some of that money was allegedly contributed, about 300,000 euros? Guess what? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, for Action. It'll be random, I say. I was going to say that what's happening in this country is difficult, but I think it's more of a plot. [[Applauds]] This is not solved with a PNL, it is not solved with toasts to the sun; it is solved by establishing an effective sanctioning regime for those who fail to comply with the law, creating a state observatory against lateness and supporting the amendments of the entire opposition to the Public Sector Contracts Act, which have been agreed with civil society organizations. Perhaps it's not up to the banks, the big builders or the big electrics, maybe it's not having plugs or wanting them on any IBEX board of directors that gives us the freedom to vote for people. We do not know whether other false policies in this House can do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u60	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. In principle, it seems that this initiative should not give rise to doubts as to its support, since we had collected almost all the groups represented in this House or had measures taken in our electoral programmes. It is true that the intensity of the proposed measures varied according to each political party, and this is what we see in this initiative, which we share the intention of the People's Party but for the Socialist Party it is short. That is why we have tabled an amendment, in order to improve and make more ambitious the measures proposed to us today. For our group it is clear that a sanctioning regime must be established, so we ask to amend the first point of the initiative of the non-legislative proposal that the People's Group brings to this House. From our point of view, it must be made clear that we must already introduce a sanctioning regime in order to ensure compliance with the rules on time limits, which serve as a deterrent instrument and which helps to combat the lateness of commercial operations which harms small businesses and self-employed people so much. The time limit for commercial operations in our country has increased in the last two years and is reported to be around 90 days, twice as high as the European average and 30 days above the current legislation. These very high deadlines, coupled with the over-cost of financing that companies have in our country, make the final financial costs of Spanish companies triple to those of their European competitors by also worsening the competitiveness of Spanish companies. Current legislation already sets deadlines that are below actual deadlines. Therefore, something has to be done, some action has to be taken, and that is up to the Government. But if the Government does not do so and the People's Group prefers today to bring a non-legislative proposal, it will have the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group as long as this non-legislative proposal is ambitious and really collects the demands of the business sector. From the beginning our group is missing something in this initiative, and it is a point that both we and the People's Party and Citizens had picked up in our government program. We have proposed a second point, which is nothing other than an audit system for public procurement contractors where they certify compliance with these deadlines, because if we only have good words and do not propose real measures, we can hardly reduce these deadlines. With this measure we do not want to stigmatize or demonize any kind of company, but it is true that there is a reality and data that support it. The spokesman for Podemos has said that the average payment in the companies of IBEX 35 exceeds one hundred and sixty days, but it is that there are sectors within IBEX 35, which curiously are the ones that most work or public tender have or are awarded, where around two hundred and eighty days on average, with which systematically fail to meet the deadlines of delay in force. This is a real fact. The larger the company, the more negotiating capacity this company has over its suppliers, that is why we also do not understand that the People's Party within that House and in other areas also wants to be able to extend this deadline by sixty days as long as the parties agree. Here there will always be a part that loses, that will be the weakest, and another that wins, that, as we have seen, will be that of the big companies of this country. Finally, as requested in their non-legislative proposal, we believe that specific publicity campaigns should be carried out to consider all agents of the system. It is positive, but it is also necessary to change the awareness of those who think that extending the payment periods above even those established by law is synonymous with good management. This is a cultural problem that we will be able to try to quantify with campaigns, but if we do not put measures like the proposals in the first two points of our amendment we will be able to have few results. Here I would like to say that amendments have been tabled by five groups. We will have time until next Thursday to try to find a broad consensus. I would ask the People's Party to try to be a bit ambitious about these measures and to pick up the will of all groups. If this initiative succeeds, I would ask you to speak with your Government so that these measures can really be implemented. It is true that it is a non-law proposal, but there are many businesses and many self-employed who expect a little more from all of us. Above all, they must be helped to compete on an equal footing with larger companies. My time's up. I hope that we can discuss and speak from here to Thursday to try to find a common position that is a little more ambitious and demanding for your Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u62	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u63	Good afternoon. Pick it up on. Already in 2014 the political parties requested through a proposal of law the establishment of a series of measures against late payment and, in addition, a regime of sanctions and infringements, with several objectives: one, to eradicate late payment in commercial operations between private agents and public administrations and also between private agents; the approval of European legislation on all aspects relating to late payment and, of course, to help businesses, since late payment has been the main factor in the mortality of SMEs and also of individual entrepreneurs. This is very important as it constitutes the majority basis of the economic and business fabric. We agree that the Morosity Law must not only have the foothold of solvency, but also the fundamental characteristics of a law of infringements and sanctions because, if not, it is not effective, and to show a button, since the deadlines that I pay to suppliers are still not met. It is true that Spain has been in the queue of the countries of the European Union in paying for commercial transactions. We paid on average in one hundred days in the private sphere and in one hundred and sixty days in that of the public administrations, but it is also true that after the reforms these payment deadlines have been reduced because the agreement between the parties was eliminated by the client and supplier, establishing a payment period of thirty days in the case of the public administration and one of sixty in the private sphere. But it is still not enough because, as I said, the deadlines have been reduced but they continue to fail. In this sense, the data shows that in 2016 the average payment period for the private sector was seventy-seven days, while in the public sector it is seventy-one days, which is also far from the thirty-day deadline set by the law. The reality, moreover, shows us that there is nothing wrong with such non-compliance. In commercial practice or in commercial traffic those who have a dominant position sometimes have the practice of not paying their suppliers within the legally established time limits, causing great harm to the smallest. With this practice, what is evident is that the small one, by not charging in time, may have liquidity and treasury problems, while the one holding the dominant position is being financed with that money that does not pay in time to the small one. Moreover, because they are in a position of weakness, suppliers do not demand from their customers the interest of delay or denounce the imposition of higher payment deadlines, and all this because of the fear that they may be left without them. To our regret, to correct these practices there is only one way and it is by establishing a series of sanctions and fines that make non-compliance with the law not cheap for them. What would be desirable would be for a culture of non-morosity to exist, for non-payment to be poorly seen and also reprobated, but this seems difficult in a country where the culture of cod and theft is still in force. The government party is now bringing us this non-legislative proposal, and welcome be it, but we would have liked it if, rather than a GNP, it had brought us something more precise and with concrete measures, as it recently comes with generic considerations, with general guiding principles that are easy to share, but without concrete contributions that serve the purpose set out. I would also like to point out that when a proposal for a law in this regard was proposed by the parliamentary groups, it was the PP Government that did not agree or did not advocate the establishment of a sanctioning regime, so if it has now changed its mind we are happy, because we also want to understand that its non-law proposal will try to take a step further to reduce the existing lateness and, therefore, the law's compliance, because we understand that the content of this GNP will not be a mere declaration of intentions that will not then materialize into concrete measures, will it not? I say this because last June, the People's Group rejected a non-legislative proposal aimed at controlling payment deadlines between contractors and subcontractors and, moreover, since we are discussing the Public Sector Contracts Act, it would be interesting for the People's Group to support the amendments which, in this regard, in the area of late payment, have been proposed in terms of payment at price, payment to suppliers and subcontractors, among other things, as a sign of will in favour of reducing late payment and of these measures related to late payment. Although no concrete measures are put in place and although it is not a proposal for a law or a draft law, but on the understanding that lateness must be eradicated, we will vote in favour of this proposal, not a law, so that within that generality concrete measures, including a sanctioning regime, are put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u64	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs López Ares whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u65	President, we are working on a compromise amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u66	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, on the elimination of cash withdrawal commissions. [[File number 162/000252]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u67	We then proceed to discuss the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the elimination of cash withdrawal commissions in cashiers. Mr Montero Soler has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by making a number of statements which I believe are all well-known, but which should not be forgotten at any time, especially in relation to the non-legislative proposal that we are bringing to the debate today. Firstly, the banking sector is an area particularly prone to abuse of its position of power at all levels and, in particular, on consumers, and therefore requires strengthened regulation and continuous supervision to prevent such abuse. Secondly, as a result of the restructuring that has taken place in the banking sector, it has been further oligopolized and consequently increased its power, which again requires higher levels of control and supervision. Thirdly, financial exclusion is another dimension of social exclusion, which must be combated in a context of growing social inequality. Moreover, this exclusion in financial matters is much more intense in rural than in urban areas. Fourthly, the ownership of a bank account is a necessary condition of citizenship in a society where even access to the most basic social benefits requires holding a current account or savings account. There are therefore certain financial services that should not cost consumers. All these issues are dealt with by the non-legislative proposal before us today. It is about abuse of a position of power, but it is also about financial exclusion. It deals with barriers to competition promoted by those who claim to defend competition; and it deals with barriers to access to citizenship for those who need to be protected from other forms of social expression, including financial expression. Our non-law proposal is divided into two distinct parts. One relates to the need to regulate financial services, even the most basic, to protect consumers from the abuses of the banking system. We plan the need to regulate commissions in ATMs to adjust their use to the cost of service and not to the power position of each entity within the system. The high fees for the use of ATMs in Spain constitute an anomaly at European level which was reinforced by the entry into force of the Royal Decree 11/2015 changing the regulation of these rules. Thus, the actual decree in question allows the card-issuing bank to decide which commission to charge its non-customers when using its ATMs or even its own customers when using its own ATMs and trusts that competition between customers is the one that governs competition. The fundamental question about this non-law proposal is that three large banks account for 45% of the cashier's network in this country: Caixabank, BBVA and Santander; precisely the same three entities that, headed by Caixabank, changed the previous system, based on what is called the exchange rate - where it was cashier's networks that decided on the amount that was charged to the person who used a cashier other than their entity - and moved to a system where it is the bank that decides on the amount that is charged to customers of other entities that use their own cashiers. The fact that three banks hold a 45 % power position in the cashier's network means that the likelihood of a person drawing money from a cashier of any of these three entities is much higher than that of other entities. In addition, a number of adverse effects on competition have been reported by the National Market and Competition Commission in its mid-2016 report on the issue of bank fees. According to that report, these three banks already have a pre-eminence position in the sector that damages competition in the sector and harms those entities that either have fewer terminals or, worse, have had a much more dynamic and remote behaviour from traditional banking behaviour; it encourages a withdrawal of users to the entities with the largest network and therefore induces an increase in their clientele, and it encourages a greater use of the own network vis-à-vis other networks. Therefore, from the argumentation we advocate the withdrawal of the Royal Decree 11/2015 and that a study be carried out of the cost of maintenance of the cashiers. And let us not just say this, that is what the National Commission on Markets and Competition puts forward precisely in that report when it states that the commission which fixes the owner of the cashier to the acquiring entity should take into account the costs of providing the service, so that the price charged for the service does not exceed the cost of the service. If you want competition, do not listen to me, but to the body responsible for it. In addition, we propose the creation of a letter of minimum essential or basic banking services that all entities will have to offer at a reduced cost or at no cost and which will include, among other things, the absence of costs for their opening and maintenance, which we do not, of course, claim exclusively, but which the European Parliament also puts forward in its 2016 annual report on EU competition policy, when for the first time it states in its recommendation 137 that savings and current accounts should not have costs for their holders, except in cases where certain specific services are used. It is also a report that highlights the fact that cash access through ATMs is an essential public service that must be provided by avoiding any kind of discriminatory, anticompetitive or unfair practices and must not generate an excessive cost for users either. As you can see, we are not asking for anything different from what has already been asked for in other European areas and which is also common sense, because what cannot be done is that the bank, which should pay the savers for the collection of liabilities, does business by charging those savers commissions that go far beyond what they pay in the form of returns for their deposits, and that it also does business simultaneously, charging for asset transactions by granting loans and credits for money that they have obtained at the European Central Bank at almost zero cost. I'm done, President. John Kenneth Galbraith said that banking is so simple that it disgusts intelligence. It's all about paying less for the money they lend you than for the money they lend. At this time in Spain you have already managed to turn that statement upside down and the Spanish banks not only charge for the money they lend you, but you pay for depositing your savings in their accounts or withdrawing them from their cashiers. It is time to return the waters to their bed and that the profit margins of the banks do not rest on the backs of all the Spanish and Spanish, who do not depend on the captive position to which we are subjected in an economy that forces us to have a savings or current account in order to enjoy full citizenship, and above all that they do not cover us when they should be paying us for our savings. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u69	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, I have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u70	Madam President, deputies and deputies, good afternoon. I begin by saying that we agree with the diagnosis made by the spokesman for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the elimination of cash withdrawal commissions in cashiers. The crisis in the banking sector has brought with it many consequences and certainly, if we look at them, none of them good. We have often spoken in these Courts about evictions, the loss of savings by hundreds of thousands of families or the closure of thousands of bank offices, especially in small populations, which has also led to the loss of jobs in the sector. What we are presented today is an attempt to alleviate one of the many effects of this banking crisis that has to do with the proximity of banking services and competition. The evidence that banks are using commissions as one of their most productive business strategies is a Perogrullo truth, as well as a strategy that clearly benefits people with greater purchasing power and, instead, significantly harms people with fewer resources. The purpose of this non-law proposal is therefore to overcome this injustice, thereby collecting the European Union's glove with regard to the need to combat financial exclusion, urging governments - in this case the non-law proposal - together with the Bank of Spain to design a system that establishes the obligation to provide, on the part of all financial institutions, a bank account for minimum essential banking services or a basic account at zero or very low cost. This could lead to the transposition of Directive 2014/92 on payment accounts as regards the establishment of basic payment accounts. From Esquerra Republicana we believe that its design should not correspond to the non-legislative proposal, but should be carried out through a participatory or participatory process in which consumer and user associations have a relevant role in its definition and in monitoring implementation. Through our amendments, Esquerra Republicana expresses our double concern about some of the serious consequences of the banking restructuring process. On the one hand, the loss of proximity. Previously he referred to this element, proximity as a value that has clearly disappeared from the map in the eyes of the banking sector, understood the banking sector, and therefore proximity in this case, as a configurator of an essential service. Because even today, many people, especially older people and not so advanced, need to go to the bank to get the money they have deposited in it, and above having lost confidence through everything that has happened or through everything that has happened with the banking entities, find themselves on many occasions with which the offices are closed and impose commissions on them, in addition, to be able to withdraw their money. Our amendment also reflects the concern about the incorporation of new technologies into financial services, not because we are against new technologies - quite the opposite - but because we, the Republican Left, are concerned about the digital divide, and especially because it particularly affects older people and vulnerable people. That is why we call in our amendment for the National Commission on Markets and Competition to supplement the report with the shortcomings that both people and competition can have in these matters. Finally, as a lawyer, I am concerned about the precipitate regarding the request for withdrawal of Royal Decree 11/2015, which regulates the withdrawal of cash from ATMs, since such withdrawal could lead to or leave the citizens in a state of defence, since the free ground for banking and financial institutions to determine them without limits would therefore leave them the free field to determine the cost of the withdrawal of bank deposits. In any case, Esquerra Republicana will vote in favour of the no-law proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u71	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Tundor Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Bank commissions are of concern to citizens. We are now witnessing a social gap between people who can use bank services under adequate conditions and others who are increasingly struggling to access their bank account and only have recourse to family and friends when they need money for a contingency. These people, ladies and gentlemen, are vulnerable consumers. In cities, certain neighbourhoods and collectives face growing socio-economic inequality and banking discrimination. The reduction in offices has been more intense in neighbourhoods with lower economic activity, lower income levels and higher percentage of foreign population. The Ombudsman recalls that in many municipalities in Spain there is only one bank or none, so many customers have to go to other towns or cities to get money. The offices are so far away that, ironically speaking, I will tell you that they have become cardio-healthy offices. The main Spanish financial institutions welcome the results of the new system, although they refuse to publicly offer their operating data and revenues. The digitization of the bank bets on the philosophy of doing so yourself and relegates the banking offices to a background. The imposition of a minimum cap of cash to take out at a window favors the use of cards with the consequent maintenance payment. This particularly harms older people, who were related to their bank through offices and placed trust in their workers, and who have a particular difficulty in accessing new technologies. These barriers force them to take out a large amount of money, with the risk this poses to them. The installation of thousands of cashiers has led to the closure of hundreds of offices, the dismissal of thousands of workers, the hardening of their working conditions and, for customers, more spending, long waiting times to be attended to and discomforts. The Ombudsman's 2016 report, the National Commission on Markets and Competition and consumer associations criticise and denounce these actions. Ladies and gentlemen, more than EUR 122 billion cost us the Spaniards to clean up the banking system. That is why, from the Socialist Group, we demand that the government stop deceiving citizens with claims such as that the ransom has not cost the citizens or that it will have no compensation. That is not true, and we are seeing it in cash withdrawal commissions. The bank has cashed in with the new commissions for the use of cashiers and abuses them to compensate, among other reasons, for the impact of the ground clauses. Citizens, and particularly the most vulnerable, are paying this ransom with the increase in bank fees. The Government has an obligation to protect consumers and especially the most vulnerable. Don't think so much about banks and take more care of people. For this reason, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment enriching the non-legislative proposal in the following terms: amending the regulatory rules - because, as the Republican Left Group has already said, abolishing would mean giving banks free access -, seeking a report from the National Commission on Markets and Competition - the rest of the text would remain the same - and finally transposing into Spanish law, as soon as possible, and in any case before the end of the next session, Directive 2014/92 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of commissions related to payment accounts, the transfer of payment accounts and access to basic payment accounts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u73	Thank you very much. The joint parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. An initiative has been proposed that wants to throw down the undoubted progress that involved the approval first and the validation, with a single vote against, of the Royal Decree-Law that regulates the commissions for the withdrawal of cash from ATMs. At the Forum we consider the burning land policy to be foolish, in this case to take forward a rule with barely a year and a half in force. Neither the explanatory statement nor the explanation allow the need to withdraw this royal decree-law which provides legal certainty to the service between the providers and users of payment services and which put an end to the abuses of the financial institutions that were, singularly, reflected in the double commission for drawing money from the cashier. If the proposal of the Confederal Group of the European People's Party were to be applied, we could go back to the original situation. As a complement to the elimination of this rule, the proponents seek that the Government urge the CNMC to make a detailed report on the situation in the banking sector, which is striking because any natural or legal person, public or private, national or foreign, who is aware of the violation of the rules monitored by our independent regulatory body, may file the relevant complaint. Finally, the initiative aims to create a current account for essential minimum services, but in fact there is a preliminary draft law that has already been submitted to the mandatory period of public consultation to establish a right of access to basic payment accounts and also a right of transfer of accounts. They shall also establish fee comparability systems applicable to payment accounts, as well as uniform criteria in their definition. This future law responds to the mandate contained in the European directive and goes far beyond what promotes this non-legislative proposal, which, Madam President, I will reject with my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u75	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u76	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr Montero, of the Confederal Group of the European People's Party, will vote against this initiative. The pity is that in two minutes we cannot talk about all the matters relating to the financial system of Spain, but if I stick to your proposal, to this initiative, I must say that you are promulgating a premise, a thesis in the explanatory statement, which is the following: the charge of commissions is legitimate, but it undermines the functioning of the financial system and also has an impact on inequalities according to income. That premise, by wrong and by crook, draws the rest of the tone of this proposition. Therefore, because of the lack of rigour we are going to vote against. You also say that charging commissions damages competition; but if we come from a process of consolidation of the financial sector, tell me one private financial entity that wants to enter Spain. By the way, when branches are enabled, investments are made in new technologies and in the maintenance of cashiers, that has a cost that logically does not undermine free competition, it is logical in a market of free competition. What we will agree is that we must protect those financial institutions that maintain branches in rural areas despite receiving losses in their profit and loss accounts, but that keep them because of the social value they make to those people in rural areas. Therefore, because of their lack of rigour, we will vote no to this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u77	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll be very brief. The profits of the seven big banks - except for the People's Bank, which this year has had problems - rose by 10%, 12.5 billion in 2016, but instead, in 2016, 20% of the poorest population lost income. Inequality continues to grow in the Spanish State, and they are not figures that I say, but that is what the OECD says. Moreover, the richest 10% separates even more than the poorest 10%, that is, that strip widens, but I am not saying it either, but the European Commission. One of the dangers of the Spanish State is that we have high rates of inequality, poverty and social exclusion, but it is also that in recent years the citizens were generous with the banks because, according to the Court of Auditors, we gave them 60 billion euros. There is a bank, Bankia, that in 2016 eliminated the commissions and still last year won 800 million and was able to increase the dividend to its shareholders by 5%. If, therefore, the Government's responsibility is precisely the redistribution of wealth, nothing would happen if this proposal, which I believe is reasonable, was actually taken into account in order to avoid financial exclusion. Therefore, since Compromís we have announced our vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u80	I will break down my intervention in the three points of the non-legislative proposal because while we agree with some, we agree with others not so much. On the one hand, the withdrawal of the Royal Decree 11/2015. I have to say that we, as the Basque Group, are voting in favour of it so that citizens do not pay double fees for taking money out of a cashier. [[The Lord]] In this sense, having to pay a double fee for taking money from both the issuing entity and the cashier's owner was an abuse that had to be effectively corrected, taking into account that 74% of the transactions carried out in cashiers are cash withdrawals. Having said that, and given that what they seek is the elimination of this royal decree, I believe that we must be cautious and, as the non-legislative proposal says in point 2, urge the NCMC to make a detailed report to know the cost and maintenance of cashiers in order to assess the cost, therefore, attributable to the customer in the form of a commission. It is also early to know whether more is paid or not, i.e. the final impact on the user, since the situation of a few months has been studied. The report of the National Commission on Markets and Competition points out that the average commission is lower than the minimum that previously existed in cashiers with different networks. In the same network, the rates are now higher than the old minimum rate in all cases, except in some bank. The study also confirms that customers, in view of the increase in fees, have gone back to their bank's network, which is free, but the final effect on user fees will depend on the entity of which they are customers, on their preferences for cash withdrawal in cash, on the policy of the issuing entities towards those customers, on the geographical location of networks and customers and, in general, on a set of variables that have not been analysed for what I have said, the short time since the new model came into force. Since we do not have such a detailed study, we do not think that a decree should be removed because we do not know the scope of the problem and, therefore, we are concerned that we will not be able to arbitrate those solutions that are best suited to it, and therefore urge the Government to take steps to restrict the collection of fees for the withdrawal of cash until the final issuance of the CNMC report on the basis of indications seems to us to be a little hasty to say so. It is a question of arbitrating solutions that adapt to the problem and do not make it possible that they do not solve what the report says, because, in the end, what we want is for citizens to have certainty and the clear framework that governs the commissions of the different operations they carry out. At the moment, changes in recent months have not resulted in an increase in consumer commissions. With regard to the creation of a current account for essential minimum services, we do agree. We are living in a process of demonetization in which cash payments are increasingly limited. The priority, sometimes mandatory, way of making or receiving payments with the Administration is the bank current account and, in this context, it is logical to grant the citizen a right to the current account or, at least, to the basic services associated with the current account. In a modern society, in order not to be excluded and to be able to hire essential services, citizens need a current income and payment account, regardless of their income level. This is indicated by Directive 2014/92/EU, which had to be transposed into the legal system and which introduces financial inclusion in EU legislation on a legally binding basis, specifically as a right of legal residents in it to open a basic payment account. I have to mention in this respect that a preliminary draft law on the comparability of commissions related to payment accounts, the transfer of payment accounts and access to basic payment accounts is published, a document which only contains a kind of explanatory statement without having a specific articulation, so we believe that a specific regulation is necessary in this area because, among other things, they are of great interest to vulnerable people and should be transposed as soon as possible into Spanish legislation. Our position, in principle, will be abstention, unless there is some compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Montero, John Kenneth Galbraith also said that a constant in the history of money is that every remedy can give rise to new abuses. By sharing with you, as I share, part of today's diagnosis of the abuses that have occurred in the bank with reference to the users of the bank, I have to tell you that I have too much doubts about this non-legislative proposal. The third point will be shared by all groups and, if we can do a point vote, we could even support it. It is true that, basically, it is transposing Directive 2014/92/EU, as some speakers who have spoken before me have said, but the problem is that when you speak of Royal Decree 11/2015 you do, as always, calling for withdrawal, in this case repeal. And there was nothing before. Banks were free to charge any fee to any user, not only the card issuing entity, but also the cashier's own entity. Precisely this royal decree had to serve to limit the rights of the banks and to guarantee the users of the banks so that no abuses would occur. In addition, the Royal Decree also included prior knowledge by the user of the commission to be collected. So when they talk about pulling out, pull out for what? With regard to the second point, we agree that the National Commission on Markets and Competition should draw up a detailed report and, of course, the Commission itself has said that its preparation, knowing the exact cost data of this service, is very complex. In the meantime, until that report is issued, you say that the Government is taking any initiative to take the necessary steps to restrict the collection of cash withdrawal fees. This sounds to me like siping and blowing soup. [[Applauds]] They want to withdraw the royal decree and at the same time ask the Government to do something to limit the abuse of commissions. My group, as you know, is not about the work of repealing for repealing. We think it's much better to find out what things don't work and build. Mrs Capella has said - she is a legal expert and I agree with her - that repealing a real decree leaves bank users in a state of defence. By the way, you always accuse us of defending the bank and it is quite the opposite, we want to defend the users of the bank and this royal decree serves precisely that purpose. I'm sure it's better, but let's get to work, gentlemen of Podemos, on solutions and measures. [[Applauds]] We all agree that this royal decree can be improved, but of course it is a starting point on which to lay the foundations for solutions so that users of the banking system are not subjected to the abuses that have been occurring so far. We will ask for a point vote; otherwise, we have no choice but to vote against this measure, because it does not benefit the users of the bank, but the banking entities you want to attack so much. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Blasco Marqués has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u84	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said, and I assume that we will continue to talk in this House over the coming years about the economic crisis and its consequences. Well, one of the main consequences of the brutal economic crisis that began about ten years ago in the world, also in Spain, was the lack of credit for families, people and businesses. Many of them had to close their doors and millions of workers had to go to unemployment for not having a job, for not having credit for businesses. Even many families lost their homes because no one refinanced them. I want to say that the People's Party is interested - I would like to make it very clear in the House - in people. We are concerned about people, businesses - mainly small ones - and the family economy, so to the socialist spokesman and the spokesman for Podemos I tell you not to go with the mantra that the People's Party is interested in the banks and the economy of big companies. We are interested in people's economies and that the financial system is sound. Following the economic policy pursued by this Government over the past five years, most financial institutions are well-balanced and, as a result, credit has returned to families and businesses, and about 500,000 jobs are being created each year. That is why I would say to the proposer group that we should talk about people and this non-legislative proposal. In the remaining three minutes I offer your spokesman - we have time, because I do not think that we are going to vote until Thursday - that the whole House should address Spanish society by telling it that we have reached an agreement in defense of the majority of Spaniards, because we are all users of ATMs. I agree with most of the speakers who have intervened that the first point of the GNP seeks to repeal the actual decree of October 2015, which he did was to put limits on the possible concertation of a few banking entities in defense of their interests. That's why the government acted and made this royal decree, and that's why today fewer commissions are charged in those banks that wanted to charge two commissions, that of the bank that issues the card and that of the bank that puts the cashier. This decree began to limit this possible concertation between banking entities. The third part of its GNP is practically talking about the basic account, the current account for essential services, and we also agree with it. We can therefore reach an agreement and address Spanish society by telling it that we are all in agreement. In addition, the European guidelines go around and, as some other spokesperson has also told you, they are in the process; I believe that on 14 February 2017 they have been subject to public consultation. Therefore, we can come to an agreement for the benefit of all. We have already told the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group that we would not be inconvenient in supporting his GNP. We have a few days left, and I think we can come to an agreement. The fifty seconds that I have left I will devote to insisting once again and also on all those who may be watching us - as our fellow citizens, who are always going to the chambers - in which the People's Party is with people, with families, with small and medium-sized enterprises, and with the stability of the financial system. We are a party that aspires to win the elections by absolute majority. When we speak, we address at least the 11 million people who voted for us in their day, but we hope that many more will vote for us. We do not want banks to vote for us, but people to vote for us, because with this government and its economic measures families are emerging from the crisis and people who are unemployed are finding employment. We are interested that the economy should follow the same path and send messages to the Spanish people of trust in the Government and, if the House believes so, of confidence in the financial system, which is to solve people's problems. Therefore, if the spokesman of Podemos wants, we have time to reach an agreement, as long as you do not intend to repeal the royal decree, because we would go back to the previous situation and harm the people to whom you theoretically want to benefit. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u85	Thank you, Mr. Blasco. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Montero Soler whether he accepts any of them.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u86	We are preparing a transactional and we will present it to the other groups shortly.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u87	All right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u88	We then proceed to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals. First of all, it is up to us to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Group on the direction of tax policy and the strategy to combat tax fraud. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr López Milla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a very recent investigation has shown that the performance of the public sector in Spain reduces income inequality among Spanish households by up to 30%, but most of this effect, 27 % - almost all - comes from economic benefits. This is the case in Spain, as is the case in other countries in our environment. Among these economic benefits that help to reduce inequalities are mainly pensions who are responsible for reducing inequality in the public sector, since the rest of the social benefits barely contribute to the reduction of income inequality in Spain. In fact, in Spain, the poorest 10% of the population receives only 5% of the economic transfers that constitute social benefits and it is not because the population groups with a higher income get very high social transfers, it is because they lack resources for the most disadvantaged. What influence does our tax system have on income redistribution? A very small influence: 30% reduction in inequality achieved by the public sector only 3%, the tenth part, is produced through the tax system. The only large tax that is markedly redistributive is the IRPF; indirect taxes are remarkably regressive and the contribution that makes to the reduction of inequality the property tax is purely anecdotal. The average effective rate - the ratio between taxes paid and income - borne by households in the first quintile of income distribution, i.e. 20% of the poorest households, is only higher than 10% of the richest households; i.e. 20% of the poorest households are subject to an effective average rate which is higher than that of almost the rest of the Spanish population. The most disadvantaged are paying in taxes more than almost all taxpayers who have more income than them. Up to this point, our tax system is unredistributive. The Socialist Group understands that this situation must be corrected, that the most disadvantaged groups, those who have suffered the most from the crisis and the consequences of conservative policies, need more support. A recovery that is not fair, a recovery that leaves on the road to people who have been driven out by crises and conservative policies will not be a real recovery. We need more public resources to correct inequality, as is the case in almost all the countries of the European Union with different governments; even in countries with liberal governments, such as the Netherlands, today the ratio between public income and GDP is no more than 5 points above Spanish, and in that country - I quote again the case of the Netherlands - there is quite a coincidence that it is necessary to raise that ratio between public income and GDP to raise protection, to raise resources towards policies of support for the most disadvantaged, to help them and also to prevent the rise of extremism. To have a more redistributive tax system, to have more resources to combat inequality means that it is necessary to completely reform the taxation on wealth by introducing an effective tax on wealth in order to prevent the scarce or zero taxation of large fortunes. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that there is a greater concentration of wealth in our country than of income and, despite this, the contribution made today by the great assets is very small. The Socialist Group believes that there is also a need to promote tax reform that includes tax bases, exemptions, deductions, reductions, and even some special regimes that make our tax system opaque and unredistributive. In particular, this has to be done in company tax, where minimum taxation for large business groups is to be established while a comprehensive tax reform is being carried out, which must logically be accompanied by the progress that is being made in order to harmonise it at European level. It is very significant that the 2016 budgets say that a tax revenue level similar to 2007 is proposed. It is true that if the income forecasts were met, the tax revenues would be similar to those of 2007 but, I see, with a very different distribution: 11.6 billion more in VAT, 5.4 billion more in IRPF, 984 million more in excise duties, 608 million more in taxes and 24.8 billion less in corporate tax, with a level of economic activity similar to that in 2007, once the consequences of the crisis had been overcome in this respect. We would also like to recall that the People's Party Government reformed the IRPF in 2014 and that, according to a report by the European Commission, the increase in income is practically proportional to the taxpayer's income level, that is to say, it increases the taxpayer's income that has a higher income level, so that this tax reform did not exactly contribute to the redistribution of income. Moreover, for those who were not tax payers, for those who did not pay IRPF because their income did not even give them to pay it, the rates, the co-payments, the tax increases are maintained, in a generalised picture of social cuts, which are also maintained. Our tax system must be more progressive, more equitable, and to that end, taxation on high incomes in the income tax of individuals must not be reduced again. The Socialist Group's motion raises this, as well as the need to significantly increase the human and material resources of the Tax Agency, strengthening its independence, its professionalism, preventing illegitimate interference by public finance politicians, such as those that occurred in the X Legislature. Reports, documents or notes from the Minister's cabinet made from confidential information from the Tax Agency must never again be released. Finally, and I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall that yesterday, April 3, was the World Day against Fiscal Paradise. My group also urges the Government to lead, in a real and effective way, within the European Union and in all necessary international forums, the fight against fraud and tax evasion. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Lopez. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca is speaking by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. The three points of this motion are based on false premises and, therefore, I am in advance of voting against it. In addition to disqualifying the Government, this initiative responds to a strategy of parliamentary radicalisation, which, at the same time, aims to mask the misadjustment that has always characterized the Socialist Party in the fight against tax fraud. To quote a well-known case, now that you are in an internal primary process, review the precedents, review the Borrell case and you will see that you do not go well standing in the fight against tax fraud. This initiative, rather than a motion, is a synthesis of criticisms of the Government, without effective proposals to combat tax fraud, a matter in which socialists are not ready to give lessons. That is why I have tabled an amendment that highlights the aspects that we believe need to be strengthened from the Forum, starting with the need for Spain to be a cohesive country in which there are no differences between its regions for fiscal reasons. For example, it is enough to take a walk through Asturias to see how socialist president Javier Fernández spends it on taxes and, in particular, on the unjust and harmful application of the autonomous surcharge of the IRPF, the fuel tax, the property transmission tax and, above all, the inheritance and donation tax, placing Asturias at the national head in taxation and the tail in economic growth. Or is it not also a form of tax fraud to mistreat the Asturians in a different way, unequally to the rest of the Spaniards, gentlemen of the Socialist Party? My amendment has four points. The first calls for the elimination of the differences between Spanish taxes on the place of residence, in order to ensure that the Spanish tax system is governed by the principle of fiscal homogeneity and equality between the autonomous communities. Simplification of the tax system is also necessary, because the high number of tax figures and their complexity prevent proper control and encourage tax fraud. Thirdly, we want the resources allocated to the fight against tax fraud to be increased. Finally, we urge the Government to implement reforms in the income tax on natural persons to combat fraud exchanges in the tax, with particular attention to undeclared business and professional incomes, as well as in VAT on the area of inter-Community traffic in goods and services, enhancing the exchange of information between intervening countries. Nothing more, Mr President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Oblanca. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, the motion you are bringing here, in my opinion, is a mixture of fiscal irresponsibility, leftist demagogy, night-time sleep, and simple coddling. That is why we have tabled an amendment to comply with the terms of the government agreement that we signed with the previous candidate for the presidency of the government by the Socialist Party, Pedro Sánchez. I will explain to myself, here are proposals, on the one hand, for fiscal policy and, on the other, for the fight against fraud. First of all, all this implies fiscal irresponsibility, because if you are only trying to tax large fortunes to increase incomes, so that this social spending that you think is necessary is substantially increased, simply square the deficit is not going to be possible, and this was a fundamental element in the government agreement that we signed with the Socialist Party. Secondly, it has also been raised here that they will increase taxes to reduce inequality, compared to labour and budgetary policy. To deal with all the problems everything is reduced to raising taxes. The key to this story is the following. In the first place, the wealth tax. The wealth tax that most collects in the world, which is the tax on great French fortunes, collects 2 billion euros. Thus it is impossible to square the accounts of a fall of 20 billion euros, which is the one that has had the company tax. Secondly, in corporate tax you propose a minimum rate. This, in corporate tax, is not possible. Large companies are paying less, basically, because they bring foreign dividends that are exempt. If we demand a minimum rate for these dividends, two things are going to happen: one, we are going to jump a hundred international treaties forcing them to pay twice; and, two, and much simpler, we are not going to bring the dividends and we are going to run out of liquidity and, by the way, we are not going to collect either. Sadly, and this is a repeated criticism, it seems that you do not know about taxation. On the other hand, since the question of wealth tax is quite complex - and we have reproduced it in the amendment - we have said that it would be studied. By the way, as far as high income is concerned, which you say you don't have to lower taxes, what do you mean by high income? What is the tax on the rich, 30,000, 60,000 euros? Maybe that's what I was told by an inspector, who's rich isn't just anyone, he's just everyone who makes a euro more than I make. [[Applauds]] This, in the end, leads to a massive rise in taxes, to raise taxes to the middle class, to something that your government president candidate with his signature specifically undertook not to do and what you intend to do in this non-law proposal. On the other hand, with regard to the fight against fraud, we agree that more resources should be put in place; not as you have done since 2008, reducing resources or as the People's Party has done since 2012. In contrast, we have achieved in these budgets that there will be a 10% increase in anti-fraud resources and that the tax agency will have an additional EUR 100 million. As for professionalism and independence, I cannot agree more with the necessary independence and professionalism. I have devoted myself to this for fifteen years as an active inspector, but they have focused everything on criticism, as has been the case in the last legislature, when it is true that, for example in the Cemex case, a tax inspector was terminated after an agreement that did not seem to like the head office. This has also happened in the IX Legislature. There are few clearer examples of political interference than the management of Miguel Ángel Fernández Ordóñez, MAFO, because I can assure you - I was there - that there have been few presidents of the Tax Agency who have been so bad and so politically involved. I tell you that his management was almost as bad as the one he had at the head of the Banco de España. [[Applauds]] I don't want to focus on this. Let's talk about political interference. In 2010, the inspectors denounced the scandalous treatment of Spanish fortunes in Switzerland. What did you do with the Falciani list? Instead of initiating inspections, which was what the professionals proposed, you sent them letters, and that is a political interference that allowed the worst fraudsters, those who had localized, to stop paying. I'm done. Indeed, we have amended this because it seems to us, as we say, that you are being empowered, that this is nightly leftism and that it is also a technical chasm with fiscal irresponsibility. If you could conform to the terms of the amendment, which you yourself signed a year ago, we would vote in favour, but if by this system what you want, in addition to criticizing the People's Party - which we could even share - it is a massive rise in taxes on the Spaniards, for that journey do not count on us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre. Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The People's Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment that seeks to be serious, rigorous and that allows us to move forward in the progressive fiscal system, in the fight against tax fraud, but with the feet on the ground and the calculator in our hands. There has to be consensus from our point of view that we have to get a fair tax system, of course - there has to be one because the Spanish Constitution itself says so - and there has to be consensus that taxes are essential for the economic and social development of a country, of course, we all agree on that. Where there seems to be no consensus in this House is that the size of the tax burden influences businesses and citizens, it has a decisive influence on investment decisions, growth and job creation. Wrong decisions in that regard - to disproportionately raise taxes to businesses and citizens - to the only thing that leads to suffocating the economy. That is why we believe in a tax system that is efficient and, despite the fact that we have been betting on lowering taxes on businesses and citizens by driving a tax drop of more than €12 billion between 2015 and 2016, we have managed to make this very positive impact on the economy, with economic growth and job creation, and there is nothing more to see today's employment data. The left side of this Parliament seems to be failing to understand this. In countries where taxes are very high the economy ultimately goes to ruin, there are no companies or job creation. We have therefore tabled an amendment to the whole of this motion because, in colloquial language, I would like to say to the Socialist Group that there is no place to take it - some of the speakers have already said this, such as that of Citizens or of Foro Asturias, whom I thank for some of their words - because it is simply plagued with demagogy, inconsistencies, ideological prejudices and, worse, falsehoods and lies. In my land, in Cantabria, there is a people called Santillana del Mar, who will surely know it because it is a beautiful people, whom they call the people of the three lies because it is neither plain nor holy nor has sea. [[Rumors]] His motion certainly contains not three but multiple falsehoods, because on the one hand they say that the government's fiscal policy...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u96	Quiet. Wait a minute, Mrs. Madrazo. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u97	...has managed to generate inequality and poverty. Socialists, poverty and inequality were created by the destruction of 3.5 million jobs. They also say that more revenue is needed because there are few: a fall of €70 billion with Mr Zapatero's government. They're talking about cost cuts. It is totally false and today we have seen it in the presentation of the General Budgets of the State. The budget for social expenditure, over €30 billion, is the highest in Spain's history. Therefore, it is not true either. And they talk about putting a minimum tax on big companies when it was you who allowed the groups of consolidated companies to pay an average rate of even zero percent. The fiscal policy of this Government has therefore been effective, equitable and fair and has benefited most businesses and families, especially middle-income and low-income families. That is why - I say this because of the words that he gave to the minister in the interpellation - we vote for the majority of the citizens, that is why we win the general elections and you do not. This is the point that most differentiates the People's Party from the rest of the parties. All seem to be defending strong tax increases - IRPF at high levels, superimposed on the rich, wealth, property, environmental taxes -, all parties want to raise taxes, but we think that by complying with the principle of sufficiency, having the precise resources to finance that social expenditure of 30 billion euros, is enough, and we want to reduce the tax effort of the Spanish, because the Spanish work more than half of the year, or at least half of the year, to pay taxes. To the left it seems that this seems to you little. Not us, of course. That is why we have tabled that amendment, because we also disagree that this government has not fought tax fraud. On the contrary, we have achieved historic results in the fight against tax fraud, more than EUR 50 billion, and we also participate in international forums to fight international tax fraud and to reduce the holes in our tax system, which sometimes prevent large companies from paying taxes. Therefore - I conclude - achieving the justice of the tax system is an objective we share from the People's Parliamentary Group. It is a very difficult equation - they will agree - but we have to solve it together, realistically, rigorously and, as I said before, with the calculator in hand, with accounts, ladies and gentlemen, and not with stories. That is why we ask you to accept our amendment. If they do not, our vote will be against the adoption of this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs Madrazo. Mrs Sagastizabal has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u99	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by saying that any tax reform must lead to the provision of sufficient resources to public administrations to guarantee the public services offered to citizens, but at the same time these resources must serve to revive a country's economy, to make industry competitive, to enable economic growth and ultimately to make a country more competitive, attractive, sustainable and equal. To talk about tax reform first we need to analyze what has been achieved with the changes of recent times, that is, how these changes have worked and from here we need to analyze what the results have been, see what has been failed and where it can be improved, taking into account the current macro context and not making any elaborations. If you don't think about what you want to do, what policies you lost throughout the crisis want to recover, for example, or to what levels of spending you want to achieve in terms of GDP, you won't be able to come up with a tax reform that will allow that spending to be effective. Such decisions require consensus with other institutions and parties, as well as a journey, because a tax system cannot be changing every year, because a country, economy and investment require stability. I would also like to stress that if tax reform is to be achieved, it must be respectful of the existing competition framework and the actions of each institution in its area of competition; I am referring to the local and autonomous taxation of the outside territories in this case. That is why I said earlier that tax reform must be carried out with the right consensus. We understand that in the case of a reform of the tax system this should be comprehensive, that it operates in the long term and, as I have already pointed out, that priority should be given to the promotion of economic activity and the adequacy of income to maintain social spending. Our group is in favour of working together on how many debates and decisions to reform the tax system are taking place, but always from the basic principle of strict respect for our fiscal self-government. Because in the state we have five farms, the three of the territories of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, the one of Navarra and the one of the common territory. As far as the fight against fraud is concerned, we are all talking about this issue. It will certainly not be easy to agree on how much this fraud is, where it is, etc., but a major effort will also have to be made in this area. In the short and medium term, there must be mechanisms for transmitting information, increasing the number of inspectors; there must be even cost-effective ways to pursue this issue. Because it is also not only a collectory issue, but also a social and ethical justice issue. We believe that tax reform must be carried out with the greatest possible consensus, following a rigorous analysis of the changes made in order to see where it can be retouched or impacted and thus respecting the competition framework. And that is why we, as we have our own framework, will, in principle, abstain in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u101	The nanny's late again. This motion following an inquiry by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party coincides with the presentation today in the Courts of the General Budgets of the State. By the way, budgets with less investment for Catalonia. It also coincides with the suspension by the Constitutional Court of the article on the Budget Act of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Coincidences; but in any case, they need to be rescheduled. Well, today we will also see for the first time in this legislature, in the light of these General State Budgets presented by Minister Montoro, towards which line the economic policy of the Government is directed. If everything that has been adopted in this House through non-legislative proposals from the various parliamentary groups, certainly the People's Party has also joined the approval, and everything that Minister Montoro has been explaining to us goes along the line that demands the motion that we are dealing with here today. In any case, Esquerra Republicana is very sceptical about the ability of the People's Party Government to consider a change in fiscal and tax policy and the Spanish state's tax system. For us, for Esquerra Republicana, to address a change in fiscal policy and therefore in the tax system should have as its objective and should ensure as its objective the attainment of social justice, which is only one of the fundamental pillars of a rule of law and the welfare state in addition to social efficiency in order to achieve a modern administration and advance the competitiveness of the economy. And all this combined with a basis of political ethics that allows us to clearly separate the different powers of the State as well as the institutions of the State. Therefore for us the Spanish State should necessarily address this reform - and that is why we are trying to make a State different from the Spanish State - and it should guarantee social justice. This means that a number of laws that were passed and that represented reforms carried out over the past few years and that were the result of the Budget Stability Act should be repealed immediately. Among other things, labour reforms, which are unfair to us, have been unfair, useless and therefore also ineffective, as they have done nothing but maintain and therefore foster the precariousness of the labour market. Pensions should be reformed and, in any case, attempts should be made to change the loss of purchasing power of these pensions, among other things. As we said, a State that should be efficient, as should its administration. We doubt the efficiency of the Spanish State. You have presented the budgets for 2017 to the General Courts this morning, it is clear that with a notorious and significant delay; we will see if they are approved, we will see the time of validity of these budgets as far as the end of the year will have to present new ones. These budgets should therefore also guarantee the State's income; the challenge of a new tax system should also be sought to provide adequate income to meet the needs of citizens. The Spanish tax system is one of the least efficient or, to put it another way, inefficient. It currently collects between 7 and 8 points less than the GDP of the European average. We also said that it was necessary to incorporate political ethics into any reform of the tax system, in order to promote the independence of the various public institutions and State agencies. For example, the Tax Agency, the Court of Auditors, the National Commission on Markets and Competition, the National Commission on the Securities Market, the Bank of Spain, up to a long time and so on. I'm finishing up, President, if you'll excuse me. The Socialist Party motion clearly denounces that the Tax Agency needs more human and material resources, strengthening its professionalism and independence because what is happening today - or what has happened so far - is that the People's Party does not allow you to be independent of yourself. We said that we have seen how the inspection system has proved ineffective because of a clear lack of resources, but also because these resources are poorly targeted. In this sense I would also like to recall - and I am now finished, President - that just yesterday, April 3, just a year ago the so-called Panama Papers were made public. I guess the People's Party remembers that, too. A historic fact that marks a time before and a time after in the international sphere with regard to evasion, circumvention and tax fraud. We would also like to see, as is the case with this campaign to raise awareness of the population at a global level in order to demand concrete public policies to put an end to the problems arising from the existence of these opaque financial territories, in this case the Government of the People's Party points to this awareness. In any case, we will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. Mrs Valido Pérez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u103	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the one who directly violates the laws declares war on society. He who, without openly breaking the laws, avoids them by cunning, wounds the interests of all and becomes unworthy of benevolence and general esteem. This I have just read is in the French Constitution of 1795; we are in the 21st century and we are still turning around the problems. Fraud is a felony and abusing and breaking the welfare state of a country. In Spain, the submerged economy still accounts for almost 20% of GDP, largely because sufficient resources are lacking to combat fraud. According to Gestha, the Ministry of Finance's technicians' union, this fraud is mainly of big fortunes and big companies. But let tax avoidance, which also compromises social welfare, be a practice protected by the State through legally regulated tax instruments and which only benefit big companies and big fortunes, represents a drama for the country and gives an idea of the cynicism of the governments and their little commitment to the rest of the citizenry. In The Economist's words, June 2013, tax loopholes for a few mean higher taxes for all others. According to an Intermon-Oxfam report of May 2015, tax evasion and avoidance result in the weakening and impoverishment of the State, an increase in the fiscal effort for the rest of the citizenry and for SMEs, and a break in the confidence of the citizenry with the State. Of course, we support the reform of our tax system to make it more equitable, while increasing its collection capacity and the fight against fraud as the main axes of fiscal policy. These are two essential measures to improve our ratio of public revenue to gross domestic product, which in Spain is 38,6 %, well below the European average, which is 44,9 %, while at the same time increasing public expenditure in general and expenditure on social protection in particular, which are currently also below the European average. The measures proposed in the motion, such as the introduction of an effective tax on wealth, the fixing of a minimum corporate tax for large companies and the guarantee that taxation on higher incomes in the IRPF will not be reduced, are in line with our proposals for increasing public revenue. We are glad that the Socialist Party has finally found the path of light and is heading towards it because it needs to be reminded of a number of things. For example, when it was in the government, the PSOE allowed capital income to tax well below labour income in the IRPF and reduced the portions of this tax by making it lose progressive. It also increased VAT and removed Panama from the list of tax havens. In addition, during the socialist governments of Felipe González, in 1983, the Investment Societies of Variable Capital, the famous Sicav, were created, although it is true that later they were consolidated under the government of José María Aznar. In 1995, also with the government of Felipe González, the Foreign Securities Holding Entities, ETVEs were created, which, in practice, make Spain a tax haven for foreign companies. Also, in 2009, under the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero, the Sociedades Cotizadas de Inversión Inmobiliaria, las Socimi, were created, which exempt companies from corporate tax; that is, they are instruments for the creation of tax screens that do not create employment or provide what is owed to the State. Making a simile, and in the words of our colleague Joaquín Sagaseta, the PSOE is like a violin, grabs with his left hand while playing with his right. Considering the motion made by the PSOE, this Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea supports the proposal made, but we believe that it is insufficient, so it should be complemented with others; for example, those relating to tax policy, a reform of the IRPF aimed at improving the progressive nature of the tax, a comprehensive reform of VAT by extending the amount of items taxed to 10%, in particular all basic supplies, and also increasing the number of non-alcoholic foods and beverages to which the super-reduced rate of 4%, the elimination of Sicav, ETVE, Socimi and of course measures to combat tax havens. Finally, with regard to the fight against fraud, the establishment of a statute of its own for the Tax Agency drawn up by the administrative bodies involved, the election of its president by the Congress with a contract-programme for a five-year term and the elaboration of a multiannual plan of measures to combat fraud. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs. Valido. Finally, in the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr López Milla whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u105	Mr President, we will not accept the amendments, so we would vote in their terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-04-CD170404.u106	Thank you very much. We took note of it. At the end of the debate on this item, the meeting was suspended. Thank you very much. It was six and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
