ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday, 30 November 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. H pursuant to number 410/27-11-2017, a topical question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotas Vranzas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The vertical drop in the price of sheep milk and the real risk to feta." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 399/24-11-2017 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiotta to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "Incomplete and fragmented results of the Government on Digital Organisations". 3. Under number 367/21-11-2017, a topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona Road axis - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres". 4. The Question No 465/27-11-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "How far will immunity and coverage reach the co-responsibility of the criminal activities of left-wing gangs at universities?" 5. The Question No 473/28-11-2017 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the workers at the 'Europe' press distribution agency. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 400/24-11-2017, a topical question by MP Arta, New Democracy, Georgiou Stylios, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Annombria and shortcomings in irrigation infrastructures are dramatically reducing the income of olive growers". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 403/24-11-2017 of the Deputy Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the topic: ‘Security of the Personal Prosecutorship Account of the National Bank (LEPETE)’. 3. The Question No 394/22-11-2017 by the Member of Parliament, Attica, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Giokas, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the flood disasters in West Attica and the necessary flood protection in Attica. 4. The question by number 476/28-11-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Nikolaos Moraitis, concerning the lack of staff and equipment in the Amphichia Forestry. 5. Under number 475/28-11-2017, a topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Security of the state's sole responsibility for universal and equal provision of public, free of charge modern and secure school buildings, hospitals, judicial and other public buildings, as well as the jobs and other working rights of employees in the company "KIRIANS INDICATIONS S.A." (SUP S.A.)’. 6. Under No 470/27-11-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the so-called transnational agreement with Saudi Arabia". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under No 304/15-11-2017, a topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The investment in Greek is at risk of being cancelled: seventy-five thousand new jobs and 8,2 billion new jobs. The euro will be lost because of the tricks of the government." 8. The Question No 261/10-11-2017 by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the question of road connection between Drama and Egnatia and the vertical axes. 9. The question by No. 293/13-11-2017 of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Haras Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The risk of the ending of the Museum and the archaeological site of Delphi". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity about the intentions of the Ministry to review the framework of financial support for social care structures from the beneficiaries themselves. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 415/16-10-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, on mobilisation of members of one-parent families in the recruitment procedures through ASP and in the notices of Law 2643/1998. The topical questions which will be answered by the same Minister or State Secretary will be discussed after each other. Before we begin, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Home Affairs, Economic, Health, Rural Development and Food, Administrative Reconstruction and Deputy Ministers of Interior and Health submitted a draft law on 27-11-2017: "Training measures for persons exempted from the penalty due to mental or mental disorder and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 23 November 2017 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, single on the principle, articles and amendments. It goes without saying that as soon as the first rapporteur comes to the Step, he opens the electronic record and closes once Mr Kumoucasos comes down from the Step, and we will see how many colleagues will be registered. Is there any objection to this original provision?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u2	There is, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u3	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, before you came to the Chamber, we were discussing this with colleagues. In the difficult times we are going through, it is a draft law with content and objects which are very serious and outside the political conflict. It is a very good opportunity for this House to take a tranquil road to discuss a matter linked to the history of the country, but also to its future. Amendments have been made. The amendments change the level of debate, Mr President. And I am not referring to the point of order, as to the fact that they are being tabled at the last minute. Oh, no! The amendment of the Ministry of Defence was tabled last night at 20.00 p.m. I'm not putting this on. These things we've talked about a thousand times. I'm putting another issue on it. Because the issue of the draft law itself needs special attention and not distraction in the discussions, I would suggest that you break the process today in two. That is to say, our first and main debate is on the draft law and our speeches dedicated to it and this afternoon, or, at any rate, when this first cycle is over, leave time to discuss the amendments. The amendments, especially the one that comes from the Ministry of Defence, will divide us here on other issues. It's inevitable that this will happen. However, we must not show less respect than what is required of the main theme of the draft law. I ask all parties to accept this procedural point, to bring together in this logic and to devote ourselves to the first part of the debate exclusively to the draft law of the two Ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u6	Here you go, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor on the same subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u7	I was going to take the floor, because I am aware, after entering the Chamber, that the government is going to table substantial amendments on the body of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u8	Do you mean beyond what has been submitted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u9	Apart from those that have been tabled, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u10	So, new ones? Because the Bureau has not been informed of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u11	There are changes to the basic provisions of the bill itself, which we do not know. The Minister will announce them now. So you realize...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u12	Mr Kumucako, I beg your pardon, but these are not amendments. These are legislative improvements, which we will now see what they include.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u13	These are changes, legislative improvements, which are now going to be made. Until we entered this Chamber, we were unknown and we should discuss them, which are essential, as I understand from what the Minister has just informed me of. So, here too, we have a very sudden change in content. Moreover, as far as the amendments are concerned, I agree with Mr Loverdos' approach. We can't get everything involved together for such serious issues. In any case, we would have expected a serious bill of law that we would have been informed of the changes that the government intends to make in time and not learn them when we enter Parliament's Chamber to discuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u16	He'll talk one of two. Here, Mrs. Triantafel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, with regard to the amendments - not strangely - I will agree with colleagues. We have said that it is good not to exist and if possible to limit them. Since this is sometimes not possible, it is important for the ministers to be present and for them to be supported. One is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u18	They will not be introduced unless the relevant ministers come.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u19	Of course. We fully agree, Mr President. Secondly, with regard to legislative improvements, I would like to say that this is not the first time that legislative improvements are made, even of this kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u20	They're essential.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u21	I agree that they are essential, that they are important, and I propose that, if the Minister announces them, we consider them essentially on the basis of their content. This isn't the first time this is happening. The Ministry considered it necessary, the Ministry considered it important for the Venice Institute to function more effectively. We must listen to them and evaluate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Gregus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. It is also a regular practice for this government to table amendments to irrelevant bills. He does it all the time. We also asked the committee not to table any amendments. We are talking here about very serious amendments such as that of the Ministry of National Defence and others, such as the one concerning meeting needs at the General Hospital of Thera. This situation must be stopped. We denounce it once again and hope at some point to stop this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u25	It is common practice to introduce unnecessary amendments at a time. We're denounced one more time. Of course, we don't know what that means if there's gonna be a result. Now, with regard to the proposal made by Mr Loverdes, it really has a sense, because we do not have time to look at these amendments. We should be given some time to study them. We therefore agree with the proposal made by Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u27	First of all, I would also like to agree on the amendments which are irrelevant to the bill and which concern other ministries that the relevant ministers should come here to support them, to listen to what they contain and to judge. As far as legislative improvements are concerned, as the name says, legislative improvements are concerned, we have to do when there are some minor issues that we are changing. We know what the meaning and substance of the bill is. That's what we've prepared, that's what we've come here with. If the government wanted to make these changes, it could, after hearing the bodies in the committees, make these changes so that we can prepare ourselves on the basis of these changes. Now, by surprise at the last minute, legislative improvements that are fundamentally changing the outline of the bill, we do not think it is in line with good parliamentary practice. Here we are to see them, listen to what we have to say and prepare again, so that we can support or not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u28	It's two other, separate things. Legislative improvements are always made in plenary and in committees, of course, to the end if they exist. So let's see what they're gonna write. Because I've seen law-abiding and law-abiding. I've seen legislators that change a phrase and I've seen - and you've seen three pages of legislation. It's one another and the other. Let's see them. The Minister wants, even before we begin the formal procedure, to present them so that you can have them in your hands from the start. As far as Mr Loverdos' proposal is concerned, I cannot change the proposal of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u29	The House will decide, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u30	Yes, if we put this House on the basis of majority voting, we know the result. I'm going to something more practical.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u31	SYRIZA's colleague agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u32	I didn't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u33	No, the government side didn't agree. You didn't hear that. He said ‘it is not good to testify, but...’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u34	That is not what he said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u35	Good. This is my colleague. That's what I understood. If I'm wrong, I'll give her the floor again. I am, however, making a practical proposal: not only should the MEPs and the rapporteurs speak, but also the speakers, those who wish to do so, because one might want to speak on a bloc in the first place. However, anyone who does not want us to make use of the right to secondary education, which is about seven minutes for speakers and six and three for parliamentary representatives. And keep the word and the rapporteurs, those who want, and the Members of Parliament, who want to take on the amendments. We can therefore start and decide unanimously that anyone who wishes will make full use of the right of dentistry and the Members of Parliament and of the tertiary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u36	Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u37	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u38	That's right. I think it expresses what we wanted to say. However, the whole Bureau needs to be informed that when you leave...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u39	I'll deliver it, Mr. Loverdo. First of all, these were officially written in the Minutes. It's a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u40	But because the conversation sometimes takes a hasty turn...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u41	Okay, I know what you're saying. Since Parliament decided unanimously, this is a formal and practical end to the matter. The Minister has the floor for the legislative improvements. I don't give time. I suppose it's reasonable to present them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u42	Obviously. I won't make my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u43	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the fruitful dialogue that has taken place in the committees. This dialogue has allowed us - I believe that with the legislative improvements that are being put forward - we agree on the promotion and development of the operation of the only legal person governed by public law, which we have abroad and which promotes research into Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies. However, let me say a few things about the surprise you said. When the bodies were heard, I said before and said to the committee - because I think the surprise is somewhat over - that the purpose will remain the same. A legislative improvement, therefore, concerns the purpose of the Institute, because there have been reservations that we want to change the form of the institution and we want to do something else. So the first legislative improvement relates to paragraph 2 of Article 1, which was announced within the committee - I mentioned it, you were there, you heard it, you were not surprised - where the purpose of the institute remains itself. The purpose of the Institute is to promote Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies. And within this purpose the institute can do those things. The second thing I had said and said was that we will take into account the views of the institutions, but also the Members who have expressed themselves within the committee in relation to how the President is proposing for the Venice Institute. You have all expressed - it was also expressed by the government - that was why there should be the part of the President, who is, of course, responsible for everything, but who will be, a university and thus promote the scientific work of the Institute. And you stressed the need to have a decisive participation of the university community. That's what's done with two legislators. One is that representatives of the Ministry of Education's Supervisory Committee are university-levels of first and second grades, because differences have also been expressed as to who should be and what to be. You'll get it in five minutes. The second is that the supervisory committee will draw up a three-member committee - which will be an expert on the subject - and make the public invitation of interest in the President's position. This three-member committee will do it. He'll do the whole process. This committee will be recommended to the supervisory board, where the majority there are academics. And the supervisory committee will propose to the two Ministers who will be the president. Thirdly, it concerns the possibility that you have said in relation to the President, that is to say, his work by a scientific board. We said at the beginning, in the explanatory statement, that the change should take place. It's happening now. At the end of Article 8, paragraph 3 is added as follows: ‘In order to support the design of the institute’s scientific and research work, as well as in the selection process of scholars and guests, the Agency may provide for the establishment of an unpaid scientific board, specify the composition thereof and any other details necessary for its functioning’. In essence these three important changes had been announced. So I do not accept the surprise because they were said in the committee by my own mouth. And I think that the other changes are not so important. I do not need to develop them, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u45	Put them before you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u46	I am tabling these three practical points on which you and all the parties have made a reservation in committee. I think that with these improvements, we are also pleased with you and the institutions that have come. And we can move on, ladies and gentlemen. So I am making the legislative improvements. And there is also a statement that the government will have exactly these five amendments. No one else will be filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u48	What do you want, Mr. Kumucaco?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u49	I would like to speak on a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u50	The procedure has been solved. We agreed unanimously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u51	As you have heard, Mr President, it is not legislative improvements but substantial changes. Fifteen days have passed since the meeting and discussion with the institutions. Don't the government say it's not surprising. It's been two weeks since.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u52	Please, we're done, let's get started.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Xydakis, what do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u55	The Court ruled as follows: Legislative improvements, in my assessment and they are also objective, incorporate the many remarks that have been made in committee. That's it, it's nothing more. It is good to talk about the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u56	The Minister said that. Let colleagues take them into their hands and they will appreciate if that is what the Minister and you have said or what Mr Kumucasos said. But they first get them to read them. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and four educational sessions from the Royal High School of Evia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Triantafel has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u57	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Constantopoulos, when there is a president, do not address the Minister. Now my colleague's coming up. I'll give you the floor later, before Mr. Kumoutsakos gets up. Sit down, you're an old colleague. The President-in-Office gives you the floor. Mrs Triantafel has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, all colleagues. Indeed, today's legislation concerns a historic institution, and that is precisely why our responsibility for the quality of its establishment is great. The Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice is a historic institution and is therefore a historical intervention. It is worth giving a little of our time to say a few words about the Institute of Venice, although its historic course and, above all, its supply cannot be reflected in a few words in a limited time. Only by accident is the establishment and operation of the institute in the bride of Adria, Venice. It follows the way of many Greek intellectuals, bodies of the regenerative spirit of the ancient rebirth, this late Byzantine period during which while the Byzantine empire fell, a vivid turn was observed towards the study of the ancient Greek secretariat, a revival of philosophical meditation, the emergence of humanism. It follows the street of exiles in the West, in Italy, by Byzantine intellectuals, who left Constantinople after its fall in 1453 carried manuscripts, images, samples of Byzantine culture. According to Eleni Glyptzi - Arveler, Venice is the window of Byzantine art in the west and Byzantine Italy is always the place of trade and not just trifles, leading ambassadors and delegations to Constantinople. The idea of setting up the Institute is included in a cultural agreement signed on 21 September 1948 between Greece and Italy. The Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies was established by Law 1766/1951 and is the only person of public law that Greece has abroad. After four months, the legal and financial status of the Institute was regulated and in particular the disposal of the assets and claims of the Orthodox Greek community of Venice. As we have said, in the years that have passed the Venice Institute has to present very important work. Why, then, are we proposing this piece of legislation today? Why did we discuss this in the committees? Why did the consultation take place? And most importantly, I say again, why do we suggest it? A series of pathogens and dysfunctions diagnosed in relation to the Venice Institute was the reason for today’s legislation. We have listened carefully to all the bodies in the committee. Despite the objections and disagreements they expressed, as expressed there, they said that the Institute needs to be restructured. I said that to the committee. All locations of the entities were significant. I take the position of Mrs Anna Psarouda - Benaki, who spoke about the need for an administrative and management change. He said precisely: 'To abolish the administrative and management problem'. Although these problems have not been reflected in the committee, especially in a specific and concrete way, we must mention that internalisation, financial management malfunctions, inadequate and - I would say better - the ineffective diligence and control of the assets facilities, the overlapping and, in particular, the confusion of responsibilities between the various management bodies, the inadequate maintenance and preservation of historical relics are only some of the reasons which have established the operation of the Venice Institute in recent years. The Venice Institute is currently in serious danger. We therefore have a responsibility to contribute to its administrative renewal and to shield the possibility of restructuring its operation, in particular the need for accountability, transparency and sound financial management. That is why - and I will say it in the articles - the position of financial director is prejudicial. Above all, we must strengthen, defend its academic, educational and research role. What does this bill provide for? His twelve articles illustrate the morphologically and essentially the effort for better administration, but above all, the care to maintain itself as a coherent normality. The word regularity has been heard several times in committee as an undeniable need for the institute to return to normality. Above all, I say that this attention should be made, that is to say, to maintain as a coherent normality the primary intellectual and educational core of the institute. Above all, spiritual selfishness and academicity must be preserved. Article 1 defines the purpose and not the purpose of the Institute, as was indeed the case in the original design. The purpose, therefore, of the Venice Institute is to promote Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies. Here, I would like to make a point. If the Ministry wanted to, if we really wanted to change the cause, we could do it. The purpose was not in the transnational agreement. He entered the law of founding the Venice Institute. By law he came in, by law he could come out. It could change. However, the observations made by bodies, but also by MPs, were correct and therefore the founding law of the Venice Institute should be clearly defined, as it is now laid down and reflected in the law. That makes the first article of the bill. It should be said, however, that the purpose of the Institute in looking at tools, just as you have taken before you and legislative improvements, can be strengthened. In this context, the Institute itself highlights the historical, philosophical and other relevant aspects of Greek culture, provides educational programs, manage the analogue and digital archive material as well as other multimedia it possesses, interconnected with recognized Greek and international educational and research institutions, etc., conducts international publishing activities and appropriately exploits its museum material. This is important, since we have heard from the Minister that, unfortunately, the visitability of the museum is almost minor today. So I would say that this legislative improvement is very important, precisely because we really heard - well we did so - the views of MPs and bodies. The purpose remains the same, just as it was when the institute was founded. On the other hand, however, this purpose is distributed by a number of other programmes, etc. I want to say this, while remaining in Article 1. Article 1(3) sets out how to fulfil these objectives. It does, of course, provide scholarships, as it did before, to researchers who are graduates of Greek or foreign institution, but the following is added: "As well as hospitality to visitors - researchers as defined in the organization". Paragraph 4 states that the Institute is subject to the general supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to its educational activity at the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. The Foundation's educational and educational role is therefore obvious. A supervisory committee shall be set up, which shall be five-member. And here we have to say - and it is very important the change that has been made - that we are talking about teachers, at least on the part of the Ministry of Education, I and II. All these changes that you understand are aimed at defending and stimulating academics and academic criteria. I would like to tell you that the new structure of the supervisory committee demonstrates the seriousness with which it plans to continue operating the Institute, and in particular its commitment to the criteria of accountability, transparency, flexibility and renewal that the institution needs. We have to say that the term of office is three years. We must also say here that the membership of the supervisory body is incompatible with its status as management body or staff of the Institute. I think that's important. Let us go to Article 4, which lays down, first of all, the powers, responsibilities and the way in which the President of the Institute is elected. There has been a lot of talk about how the President of the Institute should be elected. The Minister said before that it is necessary to be a person of unknown authority, since he will monitor and coordinate the activities of the Institute. It is also necessary for the President of the Institute to have, precisely for the purpose he will carry out, increased academic criteria, because the President exercises the Directorate-General as well as the education. It is important to say that. It regulates the organisation's internal functioning by doing everything necessary for that purpose. So there has been a lot of talk about this and we have to say that it has been chosen here by this legislative improvement that you have all taken in your hands by the Minister, that there should be a three-member committee, in the eyes of a electorate, which will be purely composed of academics and which, by a simple majority, will propose to the supervisory committee, which, in turn, will propose to the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u60	What academics?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u61	Grade I and Grade 2 academics. I think we've made that clear and it's an insurance policy. He's doing well and Mr. Davakis points it out. It is important for academics to enter first and second grades after thorough discussion. That's really how it had to be. The bill seems to reflect this proposal by many Members, I would say to all the Members - I do not think there is any disagreement on it - but I think also about the bodies. So, to go a little further, because I see that time is going on, I repeat that the appointment of the President is being carried out through this process after much consultation and suggestions and that they have properly changed some points that were in the first piece of legislation. I must say that there are not many other legislation on these three points that the Minister has given. I would like to stop, however, in the possibility of having a scientific committee that will help, it will be a good thing in the work of the chairman. It was a proposal tabled by Mr Kumoucasos. I have raised some practical issues which can really be solved and incorporated into Article 8, the proposal by Mr Kumucaku. I want to talk a little more about the president's choice. It must be understood that it is important that the president chooses to respect academic criteria and it is also important that there should be no direct delegation. This is very important. I think that the openness of the procedure, but within academic frameworks, is important. I would say that with these changes, namely the legislative improvements tabled by the Minister, the proposal of the bill is moving in the right direction. A special reference shall be made to paragraph 6 for a movable and immovable property inventory of the Institute by its chairman, within a reasonable period of time, with a view to making best use of it. We should say that it is set up by Article 5 of the Management Committee at the institution's headquarters, which will be responsible for the financial management of the institution. This is a committee that is tripartite and unpaid. Members of the Committee shall be appointed the President of the Institute, the Greek Ambassador to Rome and the President of the Hellenic Orthodox Community of Venice. It is extremely important that this instrument should be deployed. It is a crucial bet of the new legislative effort to manage the Institute's assets properly. The Committee will participate without the right to vote and the financial director of the Institute. Article 6 establishes the posts of the institution's staff. I don't have to tell them. We have been told very thoroughly in committee. Article 7 makes special reference to the resources of the Institute. It is clearly stated that it is self-financed. I also said to the committee, but I must say today that it is of special importance that such an organization with such great property be able to stand financially self-sufficient. This would, in our view, be a fine example of what a cultural and spiritual core means in a foreign country to be able to self-government. In fact, I would say that if this effort succeeds, we might be able to think of other legal entities governed by public law in Greece abroad, such as the Balkans, the Middle East and elsewhere. By reaching the end, I would like to say this. A modern and effective institutional framework, which meets the conditions of the present era, is described in the draft legislation today. It is very important - I told the committee, I say it again and now - that we strengthen the Venice Institute in order to become a chamber of knowledge of Byzantine culture and its connection to the chariot of Greek and global history. Let's not let it desolate. Let it not be a sign and sign of the petty Greek genus, but let it be done, as I said in committee, a milestone and a motto for the historical Greek cultural reality. In a modern reality, in a modern era with dominant elements, relativity, liquidity, contradiction, but also comprehensibility, I think we really need to strengthen such institutes and, above all, strengthen historical memory, as well as the continuity of historical memory and reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and an attendant of the 13th Agaleo Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Giorgos Koumoutsakos has the floor as rapporteur from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about the fate, present and future of the most important spiritual institution in the country outside its borders. The Institute of Byzantine Studies in Venice is a historic institution. It has sixty years of great ride. And no one ever imagined, ladies and gentlemen, that even in this debate we would have to deal with manipulations and manipulations. Because what is being tabled today, as legislative amendments, is not so innocent and simple. This is a substantial change in the text which, until last night, probably until we crossed that door, we all knew. The Minister and the rapporteur said that these are based on the opinion expressed by the institutions, but also on the parties in the discussions in committee. When? Fifteen days ago. If things were so simple, one would reasonably wonder why it took fifteen days to get here now, five minutes before I get to the Step and to tell the rapporteur of Minority what exactly the Minister is changing. Of course, the majority rapporteur was aware of it. If this is not a parody parliamentary debate, then what is it? But now we're actually going. The discussions and the extended meetings with representatives of the academic community and other bodies confirmed the intense concern and concern of the New Democracy, as well as the correctness of the amendments we have tabled as a thought. Our intention was to ensure substantial modernisation, institutional upgrading and armour, transparency, integrity, effective control, full accountability, in order to achieve the founding purpose of the Institute and overcome any malfunctions of the past. Because, in fact, after sixty years, it makes sense to seek ways of improving operation, but not to try and finally push the situation into worse data than we had for sixty years. Because that is the case with today's bill tabled by the government. What has been proposed, its thoughts and proposals, lead to excessive concentration of powers of the respective Minister for Foreign Affairs, but the necessary dignity is not guaranteed to the people who are expected to be in charge of the Institute. We have taken a good part in the committee debate, making thoughts and suggestions, as I have told you. In summary, I mention what they were. We called for the creation of a scientific council with strong, apparent presence of the Athens Academy. Why does the scientific board need? Because in the person of the President you, the Director with the status still in place, gather two missions, and research and management, and this is a serious task. The head of the institute should therefore be strengthened where he focuses on his work, namely research. And we proposed a scientific council with a strong participation of the Athens Academy. The Minister said that, in the amendment tabled today, he adopts this important idea for us. However, as far as I have been doing in a few minutes, I read that this is a misleading oral wording, because the written version says otherwise. Note what he said now, Mr Amanatidis: "In order to support the design of the institute's scientific and research work, as well as the selection procedure for scholars and guests - here is the magic word: - may be provided in the organization for the establishment of an unpaid scientific board, for the composition of the institute and for other details necessary for its operation." "Possible"! And there's no guarantee there's no way it's going to happen. We had proposed that the law now define that there will be the Scientific Council and what it will be like. Therefore, we proposed the creation of a scientific council with the presence of the Athens Academy and deny it. We proposed changing the composition of the supervisory committee and the selection committee of the president so that there will be a strong academic presence, as well as the Athens Academy. You also refuse to vote against this amendment. We have proposed ratification of the President's choice from a joint meeting of Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security. And you deny that. We have also proposed the submission and approval of rolling three-year budgets and a research work programme with a binding budget for the following year, as well as for the scientific programme, which, in our view, contributed and contributed, as in all the research institutions in the world, to transparency and to the effective planning of the institute's actions. Finally, with the same logic of transparency and proper functioning, we have proposed enhanced financial control by sworn accountants and by the office of inspection of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And that's not acceptable. So you realise, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot agree with the plan you are bringing neither at first nor in the articles. Unfortunately, we have not prevented what is currently, because you have the majority, from imposing on the institute, that is, its course towards the decline, its course towards a situation which has nothing to do with its glorious course over the last sixty years. Indeed, there were things that could be corrected. You are not correcting, demolishing, and putting the Institute of Venice, this brilliant institution, essentially under the supervision and comitology of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I come from the Department of Foreign Affairs. After all, the Institute has emerged as the fruit of a diplomat's thoughts. And the sensitivities of the diplomatic service for the proper representation of the country and I know them and share them, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not intend to control or worsen institutions and bodies that can serve, as the Venice Institute has served for sixty years in Greek culture, research into Greek culture. That is why, as I said, we will not vote in principle on the articles either. And I close with this, Minister. You represent the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here today. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been in the middle of a serious debate on the sale of military material in Saudi Arabia over the past few days. I will not go into the substance of the case, but I will go into one aspect of it, which you should normally feel very unpleasant about. The country's Prime Minister from this point of view, without reaction from the Foreign Minister, said, accused a senior official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the diplomatic service, our Ambassador to the Riyadh Embassy, that he is essentially a dealer, that he speaks and speaks opinions - hence interests - of a mediator, as he has presented. Whether he is in the middle or just a Greek who informed his country will appear along the way. I'm not going into this. But, from this step forward, the country's Prime Minister heard the worst reproach, the worst charge that can be launched against a public official, a member of the diplomatic service. Excuse me, this official, this ambassador, since 2016 - because in 2016 there is communication with the particular Greek who operates in Saudi Arabia - you hold him in his place. Now he's there. Copy with him. You accept his suggestions. All telegrams followed since 2016 are signed by Mr. Polychronios. What have you done, if the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister believe that the country's representative in an important foreign policy country is a man who "dilates"? Is he still there? What are you doing for so many months? These are, therefore, unacceptable. Public officials cannot be accused so easily, at the same time as they continue to exercise their mission. This is a reproach, it is a disgrace to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and you can be sure, Mr Amanatidis, and to convey it to the Minister, Mr Kotzias, that this will not go through that way. They will be discussed with strict, thorough parliamentary scrutiny. Nothing stays in oblivion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u64	Minister, you will hear all the speakers. Keep in mind, notes. Beyond the time for your speech, there will be a tolerance to give answers. Let's not interrupt in the middle now. The list of speakers is closed. Mr Constantopoulos, a special speaker from the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies was established by Article 1 of Law 1766/1951 as a legal person governed by public law, based in Venice, Italy. It became economically self-powered in 1953. Then the Greek community there transferred its real estate and the church of Agios Georgios. The Athens Academy is involved in the operation of the Institute. It must appoint its representative to the supervisory committee of the institution and at the same time have the responsibility for electing the Director. Ladies and gentlemen, the work of the Foundation is essentially scientific, research, with international authority and global visibility. I would remind you that the positions of the bodies called for a hearing in committee confirmed the important scientific offer of the Institute and its role in the universality of Hellenism. Minister, in recent years there has been a strong record of problems in relation to its self-management, which has been deported from its founding framework. The Ministry of Education seems to have distanced itself from its supervising role. Ladies and gentlemen, after sixty-one years it is necessary for the Institute to deal with legislative failures and natural malfunctions, which have to do with the competences of the institutions, the exercise of the supervision, the exodus of actions, its structure, social accountability. For us, the Democratic Alliance, it is a matter of principle for each such body to operate within a framework of administrative self-sufficiency, without bureaucratic claws and without overlaps. Let me remind you of our clear position in the operation of the Islamic mosque in Attica. This framework, however, must ensure the legitimate functioning of the body, the legally controlled action of its organs, its cash management and its repressive control. Three attempts have so far been made to change the law. The conclusion of the committee on Mr. Friends' government is in our hands, and I would say at some point that we are in agreement. It is, I would say, better than this draft law. In a scientific institution such as this, which manages significant real estate, supervision must be continuous and naturally independent. The Institute is an operator of leased real estate belonging to the Greek State, but is subject to the laws of Italy. That must not escape us. The above activity, combined with the management of the Greek Orthodox Community of Venice and of course the Holy Metropolis of Italy, needed an economic operator. The Institute's organization provided for a site for Italian students, which Greece would send to Venice. Sadly, however, this position has remained vacant and has been covered either by members of the Institute or by officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thus, an administrative arrhythmia was created, which led the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to an audit procedure, whose findings were passed on to the judiciary in July 2016. But here, ladies and gentlemen, some questions are asked: What is the exact number of his historic and cultural treasures? What record has been made and what documents? How is the institution's real estate naturally exploited? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs notes that the Institute pays revenues, but bears the state budget with millions of euros. I, Minister, take the view that the institute should not be a profitable institution. In any case, however, it must be self-financed, independently controlled, preventive and repressive. The historical and cultural treasure of the Institute must be recorded with absolute formality. The Institute should be subject to the general rules on the control of legal persons governed by public law and apply public accounting rules with regard to books and documents, with a computerised system of accounts. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law has been put into consultation for eight days and it is true that various issues have arisen from its findings. One notes the need to update and clarify the existing legislative framework. After all, it was something that was agreed by all of us. Everyone agrees on the need for transparency and, of course, the Institute's accountability. The fact is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's official note in April 2015 gave rise to strong concerns among all the Institute's stakeholders regarding its purpose and research activity. I read: "The Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice is based on location and object of the only national scientific institution based abroad with significant real estate. These advantages make it a means of softening the strength of Greek foreign policy, by developing actions and initiatives that can create international cooperation and synergies and political added value, of course. To this end, a sufficient and necessary treaty is the revision of its legislative framework of operation in order to be able to cope with a demanding and competitive international environment on the basis of the needs, objectives and priorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.’ I would say that this note was the legend that led the Athens Academy and the Byzantine Community of France to react. In particular, the Athens Academy's plenary in June 2016 raises issues of unconstitutionalism and opposition to the country's international obligations. In addition, the Community of the Byzantines of France is talking about arrangements that, if adopted by the Greek Parliament, will irrevocably stigmatize the independence and scientific validity of the institution. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the responsible State Secretary, Mr Amanatidis, at the first meeting of our committee, I would say that he highlighted the role of the Institute as a valuable instrument of educational and cultural diplomacy, with a rich research and publishing work. We naturally believe that the dialogue that has taken place has contributed substantially and positively. But there are some objections and changes that need to be made. Article 1: Legal form - seat - purpose - supervision. The description of the objectives must be clear and in full harmony with the establishment of the Institute. Article 2: Supervisory Committee. The supervisory committee, as described in the report set up by the Committee of Mr Friend, finds us more in agreement. It consists of three members: Director of Morphic Affairs of the Ministry of Education, the representative of the Ministry of Education and a member of the Athens Academy. Article 4: The President of the Institute shall be a professor of any grade and shall be chosen according to the procedure proposed. Its position shall be approved by the House at the hearing by the Committees on Foreign Affairs and Moroccan Affairs. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, that the House should know the vision, design and way of implementation by the President of the institution. Article 5: Management Committee. The Management Committee would say that it is in the positive direction. Article 6: Staff of the Institute. The staff and the presence of permanent staff at the Institute are essential for the proper functioning of the Institute at any level, whether educational, management or economic. Article 7: Resources. Ladies and gentlemen, the institute's resources must be clearly and fully described. We need to have as a pretext for sponsoring mainly the feasibility study, the control of legality and a plaque. Article 8: The Institute's body is the fixed framework for its operation and the regulation is in a positive direction. But, Minister, a specific timetable is needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u66	Three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u67	Three months. Yes, sir. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law two amendments were tabled in the short term, which are incorporated into the bill in Articles 12 and 13, for which we have been put to committee and I would say that they are in a positive direction. Minister, you have tabled an amendment to the terms of office of the institutions of the Athens and Piraeus TEIs and the term of office of members of the board of directors of the pilot and experimental schools. This is where I'd say we're in agreement. There is, however, a serious issue with INEDIAM, where you are amending the establishment of the board of directors and abolishing the CEO. All this, of course, takes place at a time when the institution is in despair and the union of workers. Mr Minister, you have been asked for a meeting on several occasions, but it has so far not taken place. We ask that this meeting be held and that a solution be found. Besides, issues such as streamlining the functioning of the institution, safeguarding the jobs of permanent and contractors, absorbing European funds would be useful to respond, and what is planned for the future of the institution. As regards the other amendments tabled yesterday, I will be in detail in my second language. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the need to update the law governing the institution's operation is essential, but with the following commitments and clarifications. Firstly, with regard to the purpose, the regulation must be ratified by the institution's founding father, which is its scientific and research role. Secondly, the president’s choice should be made by an open call of interest by an academic authority committee. Thirdly, the Scientific Committee should be set up with representatives of the Ministries and first-rate teachers. Fourthly, the Ministerial Decision on the Institute should have a clear timetable for its publication within one month of the publication of the law. We expect the relevant ministers' positions on our remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u68	Me too, Mr. Constantopoulos. We proceed with Mr. Antonio Gregos, a special speaker of the Golden Dawn. Here, Mr Grego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. The Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies was founded in 1951 in Venice and the institution of the Institute entered into force with Royal Decree 720/1966 on the organization of the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies. It is supervised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and by the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. The targeting of the institute is scientific and research. It also publishes books of scientists, Greeks and not annually a magazine setting out the studies carried out by researchers. It is a vehicle of worthwhile mobile and immovable property, which comes from a donation of the Hellenic Community of Venice. These are thirty-five properties, including architectural monuments of special cultural importance, such as the church of Agios Georgios, the museum of the Institute and the Flagine School. Other valuable data held by the Institute are three hundred icons, three of which are Paleologies, as well as the archive of the Hellenism of Venice between 1498 and 1953. Also, the "Mythology of Alexander the Great", the Byzantine manuscript with micrographs, the collection of musical Byzantine manuscripts, and patriarchal documents of the 16th century. It makes it understandable to everyone what these elements are important for the history of Hellenism since the end of the historical era of Renaissance in the reform, the scientific and industrial revolution up to the middle of the 20th century. Although it is the only research institute in Greece abroad, it is guided by mathematical accuracy in depreciation and degradation, as is noted in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. A number of malfunctions have indeed been recorded regarding the promotion of research, the cultural activity and the cultural impact of the institution, but events and situations that not only burden the previous governments, but also the current coup d'état. He has no scholars, so he is not doing his work, nor is he a secretary replacing the director in his absence. It is known that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intends to change the legal framework and put it under the full supervision regime. This was, of course, an action which deviated from the initial pedagogical aim, as the relevant Royal Decree provides that the institution has an educational, research role to play in the preparation of postgraduate studies and must be maintained, that is to say, to continue its research, education and subsidiary activities. A welcome provision would also be for the Ministry of Culture to enter as supervising actors together. His role is undoubtedly cultural, as he conveys, exposes and displays pieces of the history of Greek culture. So far, the managing committee of the Venice Institute, composed of the director of the institution, the consulate of Venice and the president of the community, has been responsible for the management. According to the bill, it remains the same management committee responsible for this project, but the concept of financial director of the Institute is added. We are particularly concerned about this, bearing in mind that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has closed down the consulate in Venice, although a renovation of the existing infrastructures of many hundreds of euros has taken place. However, without a Greek consulate, the institution's operation is becoming particularly difficult. National reasons make it imperative that the Greek Consulate should exist and function in Venice. In general, however, there are indeed shortcomings, as it is said. For many months there was no secretary, and he was running without scholars. Thus a renewal of a scholarship was not understood, since the Supervisory Committee, which would be operational for months, had to decide. The bill could be in the right direction, but, as I said in the committee, the positions of the institutions, particularly the Hellenic Archaeologists Association, should be taken into account. We as Golden Dawn are friendly and enthusiastic actions aimed at highlighting the historical framework of the Hellenic Institute and the promotion of cultural aspects and pedagogical manifestations of the uninterrupted course of the medieval Greek Orthodox culture. You have also been tied to the committee, Mr Minister, and today we are keeping it that way. Undoubtedly, a thorough and comprehensive study shows that there is an underlying trend to change the purpose of the centre or simply to devaluate it and a research educational establishment will result in a coexistence and at the expense of this so-called cultural diplomacy, as has been mentioned in the committees. We are clearly opposed to a possible change in the institutional framework. The role and mission of the Institute should not be derogated, as this marks the degrading and degradation of the educational, research and scientific character of the Institute. The main purpose of the Institute is to promote Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies and research on issues relating to them. The effect of a possible change in that purpose is the fact that its property will be governed by Italian law. The aim of the Foundation's scientific work is also to ensure that the contribution of the Athens Academy is neglected. Another issue is that there is an ambiguity about economic issues and quite naive as far as there are the safeguards for the management of economics. The supervisory committee should provide for initiatives to be taken, not to tackle them, but to prevent possible financial irregularities. Therefore, the supervisory committee should be responsible for the possibility of proposing an audit of the Institute's finances, which will be carried out by the relevant body of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So we are not positive about depreciating the role of the supervisory committee and stripping it from such opportunities. The supervisory committee will also be able to approve the budget submitted under the Director - this has been indicated to the committees for the following year. As for the management of economics, a task which the Management Committee seems to be carrying out at the end, it can be carried out better with the scientific assistance of chartered accountants, which will ensure transparency. Another possibility that can be attached to the powers of the supervisory committee is to propose the choice of the President of the institution, which, of course, will be made by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministries of Education and Foreign Affairs. The President should also be framed by a group of scientists and appropriate human resources with high quality training to assist him in the performance of the scientific task and the fulfilment of the research objectives. In conclusion, the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies aims to promote scientific work and achieve research purposes. Any other pursuit or targeting shall be a derogation from the definition of a mission. It is therefore necessary to develop initiatives to promote all appearances of historical and philosophical interest during the Byzantine or post-Byzantine period. Such taking of multi-level actions means educational - teaching promotion of the rich museum material, the provision of educational programmes and the provision of scholarships to holders of a higher education institution. I shall refer very quickly to the articles. In Rule 1, if you stick to the objective we have mentioned before, we are not negative, but we do not know what will happen until the end of the sitting. The legal form is defined and the purpose of the institution is redefined. In addition to the promotion of Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies, the aims also extend to the promotion of wider philosophical and historical aspects of Greek culture. However, cultural diplomacy also tends to do a decisive role at the expense of the main research and scientific objectives of the Institute. In Article 2, we are 'negative'. The three-member structure of the supervisory committee is now becoming five-member. We do not understand where this change tends, because it does not seem to contribute, nor even to the objectives of the development of cultural diplomacy - an unnecessarily term used in the committee - of the promotion of scientific work, etc. We hope that there will be no plan for appointments, service and work on the pretext of implementing research-scientific objectives. The financial management task, entrusted to it by Article 1 of Law 1766/1951, is transferred to the Management Committee. If, however, one can rejoin one another, let it come from the Academy of Athens or even be a dean of Greek university. We are opposed to Article 3. This provides that the administrative bodies are the President of the institution and the Management Committee. This is where the notion of the president is introduced, instead of the director. Article 4. This is where the President is appointed. There is certainly a need for wider decision-making, but we do not support the replacement of the director's terminology and the abstract powers, which testifies to an unjustified undertaking to restructure the institution's organic structures. But if we accept that it is necessary to adopt the President's position, the supervisory committee should be recommended and then activated by the Ministries of Education and Foreign Affairs. We are opposed to Article 5. The Management Committee is set up here. Here the President of the Institute is also the chairman of this committee, which did not exist before, i.e. the Director was not a president, but the members of the Management Committee elected the President. The Director-General has rightly not been involved, and in his capacity as chairman of the board of directors, so neither can the general supervision of the institution be chaired by the board of directors. We are opposed to Article 6. This provision of the article on the setting-up of an economic director is also part of the spirit of our general objections. We consider that the need to establish such a position does not arise from the existing circumstances and is rather in line with the deeper and more pertinent aims of obtaining political benefits and training. Here, too, a position of administrative staff and a assistant are being reduced accordingly. It was a total of eight according to article 63 of Law 3566/2007 and now is six. Three stay in administrative and three in the assistant. The fact that the state saves EUR 90 000 a year from the subtracted position of administrative staff, as these are covered by the state budget, is pretext and is not convinced. Article 7 could be regarded as a positive provision, as it speaks of the institution's own-funding, as well as management is carried out on the basis of the established principles. The financial resources of the Institute are then listed in this section. We are also voting against Article 8. Here the institute body, to produce its work, seems to be placed under the Management Committee, since its approval by the Supervisory Committee comes upon a recommendation from the Management Committee. So the newly established management committee acts with disproportionately high authority in the functioning of the Institute, the fulfilment of its objectives, etc., rather than the supervisory committee performs that role. In Article 9, these are authorizing provisions governing matters relating to the operation of the Institute by Presidential Decrees. We will be put to the vote. The spiritual heritage of our country is of invaluable value and must also be preserved and disseminated. You will also allow me to comment on topical and urgent subjects of major importance. Today, with a left-wing government of course, electronic auctions are officially launched. A second comment. Fifteen days have been completed by the great catastrophe in West Attica and the basic things that the inhabitants of these regions require are the exemplary punishment for those responsible - Durus, and those who are, anyway - the restoration of works and, finally, a proper planning. And one final comment on the visit of the President of Turkey. This comment can be found in the current issue of the newspaper “SELECTION” under the title “SELECTION”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr Grego. Mr Stavros Tassos has the floor. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. The Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies is indeed an important research centre - or at least as it is presented - and it is the only Greek research centre abroad. For us, he had problems in the years that exist, and now a bill is supposed to come, to upgrade it and, above all, to upgrade his research role. For us, the question arises reasonably as to whether its research role is strengthened when it operates as a fully self-financed institution, i.e. as another research institution operating on market terms and benefits. The question for us, namely, is whether it is compatible with a legal person governed by public law to be part of the dance of the self-financed organisations, without the State taking the slightest responsibility for its funding. It should be pointed out, not least, that there is no mention of the Institute as a research centre anywhere in the bill. That is why I said, and that it 'is acting as a research centre', while the whole philosophy of the Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies is not in line with that of a research centre. With regard to the general outline of the proposed legislation and the improvements made, this is not far from the previous legal regime. The only substantial difference is that it introduces or more precisely upgrades the position of the economic director and allows a number of key issues to be regulated by presidential decrees, but this, as the Scientific Service of the Parliament notes, moves to the limits of unconstitutionalism. That is to say, it refers to a lot of things to be regulated by presidential decrees and, as I said before, the Scientific Service of the Parliament points out that this moves to the limits of unconstitutionalism. Article 1 reappoints the Institute as a legal person governed by public law by extending its objectives, including cultural diplomacy, the provision of educational programmes, etc. - all of this - which we know are being exploited at this stage as another area of conflict or action, in any case, of business interests. Article 2 extends the Supervisory Committee from three to five members. Two are from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, two from the Ministry of National Defence and one common, as if the question of better supervision is a matter of quantumity. This is essentially an unprecedented institution, without clearly defined powers under the law. Articles 3 to 5 shall be determined by the management bodies of the Institute, from which the chairman and the Management Committee are designated. In particular, Article 3 stipulates that the President, who must be a university student or a researcher of unknown prestige, is in fact the former director's position. He shall be the legal representative of the Institute and shall exercise his general address. Perhaps the term 'President' is introduced in contrast to the position of the Director, which is established in order to avoid misunderstandings with positions and responsibilities. On the substance, the President is chosen by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, since two of the three members of the proposing body are controlled by him. As far as the Management Committee is concerned, it is tripartite and also controlled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Management Committee shall participate without voting rights and the financial director, who shall propose relevant issues relating to financial management. As is reasonably understood and with what will be set out below, this body will in fact be guided by the financial director's reports. Article 6 refers to the staff of the Institute. A first general remark is that we are talking about the reduction of staff from 8 to 6, without that being justified. A second comment refers to the fact that flexible employment relationships, with fixed-term contracts, continue. In fact, for workers of the three auxiliary staff, who may also be foreigners, the question arises as to the application of the Bulkenstein Directive. The most important thing, however, is that no permanent research staff are planned anywhere, which is related to the fact that the government is willing not to be regarded as such, but rather to play a political role. Investigators may be part of the provision in paragraph 2 which generally speaks of the possibility of recruiting external partners under a project contract. From there on, it is important to establish an economic directorship - that is to say manager - the sole selection of the Ministry of Finance, which will exercise the financial, accounting and tax management of the Institute. The substance is an upgrade of the previous manager-accountant position, with the result that, together with what will be presented below for the resources, its position is particularly neural for the operation of the Institute. Article 7, which refers to the Institute's resources, is perhaps the most important article in the bill. First of all, it is clear from paragraph 1 that the Institute is self-financed and its financial management is carried out on the basis of the principles of financial management and supervision. This means that it is not financed by the state budget. So here's why it's a key point and the position of the financial director. In order to avoid the slightest questioning, there is also the provision in paragraph 3, which expressly states that in the event of failure to fulfil its financial obligations there is in no way any liability for the Greek State. And how will the costs be covered in order to achieve any of its objectives? The answer is given in paragraph 2, with point A, where the use and exploitation of its movable and immovable property is authorised or the sale of assets. This is essentially the case. In practical terms, what will happen - for example - if an irrevocable judicial decision is adopted, which will entitle staff of the Institute to pay due and cash in the Institute is not sufficient? Will the Greek State take responsibility or allow the sale of the institute's assets? It is clear from a simple reading of paragraph 2 that the economic survival of the Institute is the responsibility of an expanded business. Any State involvement is potential and is generally referred to as abstract and abstract. Article 8 contains an authorised provision in which the Agency is ratified and effective by a Presidential Decree. The Agency shall deal with a number of issues relating to the Agency's overall and effective functioning. Apart from any legislative issues such as such regulation, essential issues relating to employment, questions of scholarships, which cannot be controlled by parliament. The provisions of Articles 9 and 10 shall be cut and sewn to the measures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which may, on a proposal, govern in general and indefinitely any issue relating to the Institute's intended actions. Also, until a Presidential Decree enters into force the Agency, which is in the air, since Article 8 does not mention the period within which it is to be implemented, it may, by its decision and codecision of the relevant Minister, regulate any matter relating to the effective functioning of the Institute. There are some other issues, such as, for example, the involvement of the Academy, what will be the involvement of the homogeneity, what exactly are the assets of the Institute and whether it has been managed for the activities of the previous administrations and what conclusions have been reached. In conclusion, we cannot vote in favour of this bill either in principle or in the articles, for the reasons we mentioned earlier. I now come to an amendment, although for the other amendments I will be placed in my dentistry. This is the one which provides for the bypass of non-controlling legality by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u72	You refer to the amendment under the general number 1364 by Mr Kontonis and Mr Spirtzis. I'm talking about the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u73	Yes, Mr. President. So this amendment actually legalises contracts which have not been audited by the Court of Auditors. For us, this is an issue, because this and only bypass is an issue of the nullity of contracts. It is a serious matter, for us, and we note it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u74	Me too, Mr. Comrade. We proceed with the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis. Ladies and gentlemen, the circle of special speakers will be completed, the Minister's speech will be followed, the presentation of the two amendments by Mr Gavroglou and Mr Polakis, and immediately after that Mr Loverdos has asked for the floor and we will then begin with the list of speakers, alternately with the Members of Parliament. Please, Mr Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the attempt to upgrade and resolve the dating problems of the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies was recorded as positive, both during the discussions in committee and at the hearing of the bodies, the majority of which considered the proposed legislation necessary. The direction in which it is proposed to modernise the institutional framework of the operation, this unique centre of Greek-National Studies in Europe, is to expand its actions, to extrovert, to develop cultural diplomacy, to increase its revenues and to manage its assets rationally. In 1951 the Greek Community of Venice, which came out of a global war of shrunk and winter, provided the foundation with its entire real estate or movable property, including manuscripts, images, books and rare relics. The specialised management of the Institute’s movable and immovable property is necessary, so that all its economic activities are surrounded with clarity and purity. The broadening of the main aims of the Institute, as identified in the first article, concern the promotion of Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies, as well as the promotion of more general philosophical and historical issues of Greek culture. The provision of educational programmes contributes to its interconnection with Greek and international, educational and mainly research institutions. Enlargement of the structure of the supervisory committee, by three-member to five-member, strengthens the pluralism of the views in its administration and strengthens its powers, contributes to more effective implementation of its purpose. After hearing the bodies, and diligently studying their positions, I, too, intended to submit my support to the complaints about the extinction of the term "any tier" as regards the selection criteria for the position of the President of the Institute. I am pleased to see that a legislative improvement has been proposed by the Minister in this particular proposal. The selection of the president from the first and second grades of the university hierarchy will ensure both the research and spiritual nature of the institution and its academicity. In this way, research work will be assisted by scientists with knowledge of experience and prestige. The setting-up of an Economic Director, who also participates in the Management Committee, without voting rights, is another attempt to increase transparency in the management of the institution's real estate, as well as rationalisation, in favour of the Institute's revenue. Determination of the institute’s resources as defined in Article 7 shall ensure financial self-sufficiency and enhance effective and ultimately efficient management of its assets. The survival of the Institute by means of a self-financed procedure requires that its resources be extended, both in the field of public and private institutions and in the field of progress, from the provision of training courses. The establishment, ratification and entry into force of an institution operating under its internal organisation and operation will help to manage the staff more properly, with rules of dignity and transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, since 1951, the Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies has been the only Greek research centre abroad. This cultural premise offers important services to our country's radiation, bringing the global academic community in contact with a significant number of opinion leaders. Taking into account the need for the organisational and administrative reorganisation of the Institute, we consider that this legislation provides similar guarantees, also creating conditions of safeguarding the institution's research and spiritual nature. The Independent Greeks support this draft law, aiming to promote the Institute to an important body representing Greek culture at international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u76	Thank you too, Mr. Katsiki. Mr Ioannis Saridis, special speaker of the Centroon Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot really believe that by legislating in this way, i.e. devaluing the work of Members of Parliament and reducing the importance of parliamentary procedures, we will be able to convince the Greek citizens that we are doing our job well here in the Greek Parliament, that we are well aware that what we are doing is for their own good. We cannot convince them that this is what is happening. Legislation with last minute's amendments and, indeed, important amendments is today the rule of the functioning of Parliament. So no respect exists for the citizens' representatives. So there is no respect for the citizens. In this country we legislate with amendments in two years, in which the Central Association is in the Greek Parliament. I remember from the beginning of this year some ministers assured us that in 2017 and after the end of the second review, everything would be different, it would be a better year for the quality of the legislation in Greece. Unfortunately, the end of this year is near, and we can now say with certainty that, for 2017, Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the principles of good legislature remain empty for the current government. We will look at the amendments and we will be placed when we are sure that we have understood their content and that the content is in the interest of the proportion of the citizens to whom they are addressed. In any other case, of course, we will not support them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are being called today to discuss and vote for the future of the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies, based in Venice, Italy. In order to do so in a responsible and productive way, we must take into account the following data. Firstly, whatever malfunctions occurred during the multi-annual activity of this institute, it does not change the fact that Greece has no other educational establishment anywhere abroad such sizes and corresponding academic velvets. This institute is unique to us Greeks. The malfunctions are fairly easy to correct, but building a new type of institute is practically impossible. The most important of the possibilities that the proper functioning of this institute can ensure and, through it, the development of cultural diplomacy is a matter for our country. Already, at committee meetings, the Centro Association agreed on the need for some changes, but also on the crucial role of this Institute for the success of the effort aimed at continuously improving our country's prestige worldwide. Our foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the limitations that put our potential enemies' interests, must be exercised in order to ensure the reliable visibility of Greek culture and to emphasise the ideas of stability and peace as a purpose that Greece is consistently and over time serving, while expressing the determination of our fellow citizens, so that we are not the Greeks who will favour the war. Unfortunately, however, this debate on the exercise of a mild foreign policy, through the development of cultural diplomacy, is in complete contradiction with the thinking of our decision to agree to sell war material to war countries, so that we can cover holes in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have evidently recently realized that the Greek Government over your days has deepened Greece's relations with Israel and the United States of America so that they can sell weapons where they are told, but also not to the consequences. The real scandals in the Saudi case are, on the one hand, that a left government sells weapons to warring countries and on the other hand, that the opposition uses its constitutional forces for communication rather than material reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, you will find it difficult to find a fellow citizen who believes that this House is dealing as much with important and essential issues as it needs. For example, Greece is the only country in the Western world in whose territories the Muslim law of 'Saria' applies. This is a distorted regime, which has been in place for many years and continues to apply until now. For this very serious issue concerning Thrace and the Greek Muslims, and while there was a timely question for me, I was informed that the Prime Minister himself, on the step of a regional conference, made some unclear announcements, urging changes in the implementation of the 'Saria' of this Muslim law. Yesterday I also learned that the Minister of Education, Mr Gavroglou, also promotes a relevant regulation on this issue. So I ask the government, the change you say you are going to make, will we have the opportunity to discuss it, as is appropriate, or will you bring us an amendment at the last minute, as you usually do on very serious and essential issues? I also ask the Qualified Opposition: do you not think that you should at some point deal with this critical and very serious issue? Because you have not dealt with so many other critical and serious issues too. I have not heard any comment about the intentions of Officer Responsibility. Unfortunately, it seems that this issue does not have those communications you are looking for in this Chamber. The same is true of what is going on in the country's Armed Forces, which have not received any special attention either from the government or from counter-population. The violent imposition of the union in the army has led to a number of very serious problems which, in my opinion, pose a threat to national defence. Ladies and gentlemen, we should review - we have time - our priorities in this Chamber, in this House. We have great difficulty in hiring important and serious ones. Is it more important to sell weapons so that we can support the Ministry of Defence's budget or maintain our friendly relationship with the Arab world? Is it more important to know who George, Jean, Al Habibibi, or is it the issue of the Sharia and Mr Erdogan's forthcoming visit to our country? Is it more important to defend the honor of people who have turned classified documents into skeletons and flew them right and left or to ensure peace in the army, confronting the problems of the sloppy legacy imposed by military union? Ladies and gentlemen, the Central Association will consider supporting the annulment of the agreement on the sale of arms to the Arab States. This, of course, also presupposes the need to find a new buyer. On the bill under discussion, which comes to plenary today after a long time - we have not understood why he has been late to come - we have discussed it in detail in committee. We will not repeat our arguments. We will vote 'at present' because we have not been convinced of the proposed changes if the proposed changes meet the objectives which they have set, as well as the amendments, in my dentistry and I, as well as the parliamentary representative, will cover their content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u78	We close the cycle of special speakers with Mr. Gregory Psariano from the river. Mr. Fisherman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. The exhaustive discussions that took place in the committee were two weeks ago. We had at least fifteen days to incorporate in this bill improvements proposed and requested by all nine out of ten the bodies we heard. I was amazed to hear a previous speaker saying that the bill is going right in the direction that the representatives of operators asked for and I was incompetent, because I was probably elsewhere. Someone or someone in this conversation was somewhere else. All the representatives of the bodies we heard in the committee opposed the bill. They said that changes need to be made, that improvements need to be made. We know that the Institute of Venice was not at its best. He's got too many problems. He's been through a lot of trouble. It has various outstandings of many kinds and all this had to be settled, since the Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice is perhaps the only, or perhaps not, the only, leading research institution for postgraduate studies available to Greece abroad. This bill - and we told the committee - had to provide solutions, it had to give direction, with the main focus of the Ministry of Education and Education and Culture. It is primarily the Institute of Venice a tool of culture and education and a complementary diplomatic tool. It therefore seems from the bill that there is a gift from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to exercise cultural diplomacy. It is like a pavilion of diplomatic tourism, as can be seen from the reading of the basic elements of this bill. It could also function as a diplomatic tool - I say again - as an alternative. The first is culture and education. And in Venice, his property and his tradition and his history and everything. Since its establishment, by transnational agreement in 1951, the purpose of the Institute was to research and produce studies on the Byzantine and post-Byzantine period, mainly on the history of the Greek regions under Latin domination. The rich archaeological material for study and research is mainly Italian and Venetian archives, among them the history of today's Heraklion Crete, about Handakas and much more. The Institute provides hospitality to Greek and foreign researchers whose work is part of the scientific interests of the Foundation. It has so far accepted over two hundred scholars. It is mainly supervised by the Ministries of Education and Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with drunken moves, systematically attempts, without success to date, to change the legal framework of the Institute and under the pretext of organisational reform and invoke existing functional problems and abuse the term "extrovert" which we are reading and we are constantly listening to, to undermine the research character of the Foundation, in order to make it a simple centre of cultural diplomacy, a resort, a holiday stand for officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These were also said by operators in the committee, among them Angel Delivorrias, the academic. And here I must say that the Academy is not a spooked institution as it was thirty and forty and fifty years ago or eighty years ago. He's a living organization now, he's got strong people, naturalities, intellectuals. The academy's role disappears. The Academy is beheaded by the primary role it should have - and it was - at the Venice Foundation and we have not answered why this is happening. Why is the Academy being decapitated? You have made some legislative improvements in this fortnight, in a positive direction, 7%, 12%, 13%, let us not see success rates in the positive direction. To say why you do not accept what all the opposition and all the institutions have asked for. Why do you decapitate the academy's dominant role? First of all, there is no answer to that. Is that a secret? Is that something we shouldn't know? Is that something that's bothering you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Fisherman, let me interrupt you for a few seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Department of the Royal High School of Evia. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u81	This is the third time that this change is being attempted, this transformation of a cultural education institution into a 'diplomatic tool', the second by the present government. In both of the previous ones, there was a reaction from both scientific bodies and researchers, and folding was absolute. The first time the effort was in 2010, the Minister of Education was Anna Diamantopoulou. The second - failed again - attempt was in 2016 by this SYRIZANEL government. I'd rather call them SYRIZANEXEL. Minister of Education at the time was Nikos Friend. In May 2016, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, emblem, within a bill dealing with specific issues of an organization - the Centre for Analysis and Design, "Transfer of constructions and pension issues of its staff" - had also raised the issue of the Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies. Potami then reacted immediately, asking the relevant ministers a question, asking them to prevent the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' plan from altering - and effectively abolishing - the Institute, turning it into a place of the office or officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. While previous Ministers for Culture and Education had reacted, the current Minister for Education does not show the same concern and I say it again today. Due to the 1948 transnational agreement, the Institute's research and training mission cannot be removed. This is why he attempts to alter his purpose by abolishing his connection with the Academy of Athens and converting and allegedly enriching his purposes. With all the legislative improvements, which are supposed to have been made, these key points of change, transformation and transformation of purpose remain. In this bill, with all these attempts we are saying, the word 'extrovert' is worn and heard a lot and we were reopening it. The Minister of Culture, which follows the line of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on a recent visit to Venice for Biennale, discussed the possibility of enriching his cooperation with an "extrovert" rather than his research work. In the Foreign Ministry's answer to the question of the River of June 8, 2016, "extroverty" is repeated many times to stress the importance of the remodeling of the Institute. The Venice Institute must not cease to perform its statutory mission, as in the 1953 donation of the Greek community of Venice, in which its real estate is donated to the Institute, there is an explicit condition: "In the event that the Institute ceases to operate or change its purpose, the property comes directly to the donor, namely the Greek community of Venice, which is a legal person of Italian law and does not come to the Greek state". What happened so far? He was recommended for the head office of the Institute, which had the approval of the Athens Academy. Today the Director is replaced by a president and is attempting - it is registered, I say for the fourth time - to have no reason for the Academy. Although there is an open public call of interest, the President will be appointed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will have the basic control - if not the absolute - of the Venice Institute, as will have the absolute majority and control of the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u82	You didn't read the bill or anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u83	We'll talk about it. All the evidence we've said - and where you could change - you haven't changed it. You have decapitated - I say again - the Academy without telling us why. We don't understand why. Is there a reason? It must be absolutely guaranteed now - in conclusion - the scientific and research form of the institute. It must be his only mission so that there is no problem with the transnational agreement with Italy and the conditions for donating the property of the Greek community. The other activities mentioned, such as educational programmes, digitisation, etc., should be included and included in its basic scientific research mission. The president will in fact be a scientific director. It cannot be elected by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by opaque procedures. This bill completely takes out the Academy, which largely ensured the impartiality and transparency and scientific authority of the director, the former. The Academy of Athens is no longer the image of an artisanal academic elite, a spooked institution, but it is the Academy of Diamanduro, Papademos, Delivorria, Nanopoulou, Valtinos and many other living intellectuals and people. In what shape or system does the bill replace it? The bill speaks of nomination of any grade of professor of related object, as - let's say - theologians of the Aristotle University. Consequently, the role of the Academy must be restored or, as an alternative, the President's choice, following an open international notice to pass through the relevant committee of the Parliament, must be restored. It cannot be done by opaque procedures, by administrative routine procedures of the Ministries, with all known pathogens. We ask for details of all the Institute's malfunctions to date. We need to talk about them and correct them, change his course and direction, but not like that. How is it documented and in what specific way these malfunctions so far resolved? What steps are being taken in particular to improve it? All the time we've been talking, who have been placed in the institute by this government and with what qualifications? How safe is the Institute today and what is the guardianship guaranteed by the Greek state? What about taking advantage of the property? Not only is there a risk of being lost, but if there is a fortune, it must somehow be exploited, something must be done about it, something that is something that goes on in the face of this country, which is going through this difficult phase. That is what we had to say, and at the end of the day, I would like to ask for these legislative improvements - of this 10% - to go ahead with it, to put this five-member committee which you are proposing and a representative of the Academy. It's not bad. Unless some people bother them for reasons you haven't told us. And the main purpose of Venice's Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies is mainly culture and education and a subsidiary diplomatic tool for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, when will we take the floor for the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u87	I've been through it, and I won't say it ten times. I repeat this for the last time: After the Deputy Minister in the order you were in the Chamber, Mr Gavroglou and Mr Paulakis. Then Mr Loverdos comes in and we then enter the series, four speakers - a parliamentary representative. I announced them twice, Mr. Gavroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u88	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u89	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are discussing the draft law of our Ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies. This bill a year and a half ago it came to "DENMARKING" with only the aim of listening to the views of the stakeholders who participated in the consultation, so that it could be re-enacted. And, of course, other provisions were added to that draft law a year and a half ago. It wasn't that vaccine. However, these provisions have been distinguished so that we can discuss today in Parliament a bill which I think should and will receive a positive response from the overwhelming majority of Parliament's parties. Ladies and gentlemen, did he have to come? Everyone said it. He needed it. When you want to make changes, because there were malfunctions or problems, you have to face their causes. What were the causes? Through the consultation, for a year and a half, with the Greek Orthodox community of Venice, with the presidents and with the institutions, but also with the members of the Management Committee, who were ambassadors and consuls, etc., we focused on three things. The first is that it is necessary for a president who has a scientific, university character that can serve the purpose of the Institute. Why exactly did we get here? We had reached the director to deal with changing a nail, which door, which proof will be cut without promoting the scientific work of the Institute. The first basic finding was that, I inform you. And there are documents here and the community, which we have been having for four years, and the ambassadors and consuls and the managers, who are also the presidents. This bill was widely studied. The second malfunction was that the procedures and responsibilities were not defined and there was a involvement of a management and supervisory committee, and that many times the supervisory committee was involved in the management and that the management could not function and there was a conflict, which was enriched by personal data, I would say to you, and which did not allow the Institute to function. And the third was economics. The Institute can and must be self-financed, just as the bill puts it. Of course, it also has the possibility of receiving grants, as well as assistance from the Greek state. It needs proper management of economic data, because it has more than fifty properties, which generate revenues around 1 million. We need sound and obviously good management. We cannot reach 2017 and there are properties that are not rented, which lack thousands of euros from the Institute. It is not only this year, but for a long time. This was all to be handled. Is this bill solved? It solves the bill, ladies and gentlemen. That was our cause. That is why we have made the changes which have been announced at the end of the meeting with the institutions. Fifteen days, of course, but one week - don't forget, I'm a State Secretary for Foreign Affairs - I was abroad. But, in any case, they have been announced within the committee and the direction in which we are going to go has been announced. So, are they solved? They resolve the bill, ladies and gentlemen. We're putting the president in. The President of the Institute has increased university qualifications and essentially by public open invitations from a committee, which is a university, is proposed and is the chairman of the Institute, who, as I said before, has increased scientific and university qualifications. He therefore has the overall responsibility of the Institute, but his main task is to promote his research work. Under the chairman, in order to satisfy and see the need for a better financial management of the whole institution, we put the financial manager on the table and determine exactly what the Supervisory Committee is doing and what the Management Board is doing. Therefore, the first, in relation to the President and the financial resources, has been satisfied. The Supervisory Committee is being enlarged. The Supervisory Committee for the majority of it consists of first and second grade universities. The work of the President shall also be strengthened. Mr President, I would also like to say in my speech - because I think that the House too has been able to make a composition - that there has been a criticism from the New Democracy, but also from colleagues, of the fact that it is 'it can be predicted that the unpaid scientific board is set up'. So I accept that. The words "may and be..." will be erased by the legislature so as to provide the Agency with the unpaid scientific board. I also accept the criticism that has been made about scientific qualifications and university qualifications which this three-member committee needs to have. That is the point made by the parties I have heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u91	Although there is your oral statement, when you finish your speech, you will fill it in writing in your legislature.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u92	Of course, and I thank you for the reminder, Mr President. So I accept that members of the ICPs, who say, should be first and/or second grade universitys. That's in relation to the legal systems. We didn't surprise anyone in law school. It was known. I don't want to go into why and how and what and I'll tell you why. Because everyone has accepted the need for change and our changes are institutional changes, because we really want the Institute to work. The Institute is the only, not the most important, legal entity under public law, which exists abroad for the purpose it exists. We're not changing the cause. For those who have at least read - because I hear the statements which show that they have not read the bill at all, nor the legislators - you understand that the purpose remains the same, the one in the 1966 organization, as stated in 1951 by the Decree-Law. The transnational agreement is '49 and all it says is that an institute is being established. From there on, there are two legislative decrees in 1951 and in 1966 the organization. The Institute therefore operated with a 1966 organization. We are strengthening his university research course and at the same time resolving the pathogens that, in my personal opinion, were due to the involvement of managers, managers, supervisory, matters relating to their personalities, you did well, you did not do well, etc. But here's something I can explain. For the proper functioning and whether or not things are done well the Greek state is responsible. The future I want to preserve most of all. We heal the past and move towards the future. Not everyone can do what they want and get back to work like this. The Greek state will have to control and always control. That is why we have both the President and the manager to send to their supervisory budgets and to make the President an account of the actions it has taken. And let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that some things that have been heard here cannot be solved by law. They're the organization's issues. However, because we considered it very important that there should be the Scientific Council in the selection process of the supervisors, etc., be at the side of the chairman who will make the relevant suggestions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you about a criticism I have heard. In fact, I have heard it from Mr Kumucako, who has used his capacity as a responsible for external affairs as an alibi to give credibility to his proposals, which he knows is not so. From where and yet, with what legislative article is the Institute of Venice of Postgraduate Studies issued to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? The same powers which existed in the oldest law for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education are maintained. Where is it presumed to be delivered? Where is it presumed, when we strengthen the pedagogical piece by committees, etc., that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wants to go to the institute? These were in earlier times. "Hotel Venice" is over. We institutionally reserve its role and scientific and research activities so that they can move forward. The old ones are over. And here I call on the New Democracy to change its attitude. You can't say that. There's no provision at all. Whatever was there, the exact same thing exists. Where is it supposed to be? And I think that when we speak in Parliament we speak with proof. As for the question why it is not an academies, which one colleague from a party has raised very strongly, let us reread what he said here and the answer is in his own speech. We do not exclude anything, but the answer is in his own speech and let him read it. So we do not want to make it a cultural institution. But tell me this, when a legal person in public law abroad makes actions, presents books, organises reports, such as the exhibition he has with the Byzantine images, makes presentations abroad, does not he make cultural diplomacy? Does it not promote culture, Hellenism? Is he doing it or not? Objectively. I told you that, precisely because this whole rhetoric was created, that is why we changed and insist that the purpose will remain the same. No one else. I think you accept that and you can see it in the law school. So I cannot accept the expressions - parody: 'Moder crime', as some people have said not here, in the newspapers. It's not like that. Our government opens up the institute to those who really need, in the university community, to the help of the Greek Orthodox community of Venice and the actions that a legal person has to have in public law. The comparison between what was in the oldest law of 1951 and what we are now legislating should make, not only the SYRIZA Members, but also the other Members - who I think will be positive - proud of the individual articles. We're doing something on which they'll build. Because they will have a lot of work to do to those who undertake to walk the Venice Institute - both in supervisory and management. They have too much work to do. We put the foundation on, and the road to be built on it will be bright. That is our ambition, and I think that with this legislation we are achieving it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u93	Well, now, there will be five minutes for Mr. Gavroglou and five minutes for Mr. Paulakis to develop their amendment. Here, Mr Gavroglou, you have the floor, with a little tolerance, if you are not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u94	No, I'll be done. That's a lot of time. Thank you, Mr President. The term of office of the administrative bodies of the Athens and TEI Piraeus is extended until the end of January 2018. The reason for this is in view of the formation of the University of West Attica, so that we can have some more time with the present administrations. The term of office of the members of the Management Committee of the Standards and Experimental Schools is also extended until the adoption of a Ministerial Decision. Finally, some changes are proposed in terms of the structure of the board of directors of the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation. He's seven. The level of senior management includes not only the board but also self-sufficient organisational units. And we're putting in very specific functions that the president and the president's office will have. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President. I used less than a minute and a half, as you can see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u95	And I, Mr. Gavroglou, because you've been here since 10:00. Let's go to the amendment with a general number of 1365 and a special number 24. Here, Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. This ministerial amendment concerns the Santorini Hospital and is signed by the Ministry of Health, by the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction and by the Finance Ministers. In fact, this is a regulation which speeds up the recruitment of permanent staff with regard to private law of indefinite duration at the Santorini Hospital. As you know, with a conscious political choice of the government, the Santorini Hospital began its operation in June 2016, after the completion of a recruitment process with fixed-term private-law contracts. A second extension was granted, and so it continues to work this year. He has now established his function. I would like to mention two - three elements. Last year, he tested over fifty thousand patients. Fifty-seven births on the island. A few days ago, the first laparoscopic surgery took place. Installed CT scanner. We know some people were very upset about it. A lot of private sector money has been lost by developing operations. But that's how we're going to keep going. Because we also have the bitter experience of the procedures of the bureaucratic organization of the state that we inherited, we are bringing in regulation which will enable the recruitment procedures of permanent staff to be accelerated. What's that arrangement? It is that AEMY will make a declaration, which it will approve and closely follow the criteria of the APRC. The choice will be made by a committee set up by AEMY. The objections and the completion of the final tables will be made by the AACC. Unfortunately, we have a bitter experience. I will mention one example: with regard to the announcement of the thousand six hundred sixty-six permanent staff and two hundred fifty-seven who were proclaimed in January this year by the AACC, some temporary results have been obtained from April, May. At the moment, we are entering December and the final results have not been obtained. As the second 12-month extension of the staff member's term expires in a few months - from May onwards for the first - we cannot jeopardise the safe operation of the hospital. The hospital must not stop working because the results will not have been obtained if the AACC fully implements it, because this means that we will not be able to extend their stay, because the people who are there will have been closed for twenty-four months. So we're making this arrangement. Recruitment criteria will be exactly what is described in the ADP law. It will simply approve the declaration, implement the procedure AEMY will examine the objections and final tables of the ASA. So we believe that we will have completed this process until the first conventions of the second extension of those who are currently serving, the private law of a certain time, begin. That is the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u97	Good. As I had announced, it was Mr. Loverdos to speak. He contacted Mr. Evangelos Venizelos. With the civil courtesy that characterizes him, he gives his place to the former president of his party, Mr. Venizelos. The first two will then speak, Mr Michelovanakis and Mrs Antoniou. Then Mr. Loverdos will speak and then Mr. Karras, Mrs. Aylonitou, Mr. Kalafatis and Mr. Javaras will speak. Let's go alternating. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine Studies in Venice must allow us to agree, consent and contribute to a national policy. Micro-professionals or micro-collars cannot be developed on such an issue as the country's international scientific presence in Venice, in a town with which Byzantium had special ties and the institute since it was founded is an advanced penitentiary of Greek science, but also of Greek culture, because the presence of the Institute in Venice is a practical proof of the obligation to bridge the eastern with the western Middle Ages. The scientific and research object of the Institute is not just the Byzantine and post-Byzantine world, but it is the relationship between Byzantium and the West, it is the investigation of the special role of the Galenotet Republic, the investigation of the issues through which the historical continuity of the new Hellenism arises. The scientific leaderships of the Institute from the time it was founded, from the 1950s to the present, did not arise through any political or administrative process. The managers' choices were self-evident over time. The Venice Institute has been appointed by large personalities, renowned to their subject matter. It was obvious and self-evident who would take over the institute's scientific department. I was lucky to work with some of these important scientists, men and women, and during my term of office at the Ministry of Culture and during my term of office at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I've often visited the institute. I've participated in events, activities within the institute. I am very well aware of the relationship with the Hellenic Community of Venice, the relationship with the metropolis of Italy, the relationship with the Holy Temple of Agios Georgios, the relationship with our consulate as long as it existed and the consulate operated in Venice, and the embassy of Rome. If the administrative issues are settled and guarantees of transparency, administration and management of the Institute are ensured, the great question is how we safeguard the research and scientific authority of the Institute. The prestige of the Institute is judged within an international scientific community, within an international scientific market in the sense of the forum. Let's see if the institute has a status, understanding and acceptance, we have to compare the Institute of Venice with other institutions, with Dumbarton Oaks, let's say, in Washington, so that we can see the importance of the scientific and research credibility of the choices we make. So, despite the legal arrangements and the outrages, the great step must be taken, after a rapid consultation that I would very much ask for between the appropriate Foreign and Education Ministries, so that the bill, as will ultimately be passed, ensures that the Institute is purely and purely researched. For the Venice Institute, what applies to research institutes, what we have in our legislation to all the important research centres that we have, unfortunately, have in the field of humanitarian and social sciences. We don't have the diversity, the range of research entities we have in other sectors. It is not enough, therefore, to provide for an advisory committee for the selection of the director, the president, as is now called, which is composed of members of the board, because the members of the board may be new, may be unresponsive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u99	It doesn't matter. In the first stage, the teacher, persons are joined together who have an elementary scientific identity and others who have a seniority, have a familiarity and have to present a research corpus very large. The selection procedure should be legalised. The selection process, if we do not want it to be done by the Academy, and we want it to be done in a more broad way - because the Academy is the institution of the State and we must respect its existence - should, if anything, be followed by the procedure followed for the selection of the presidents of the research centres and the directors of the institutes of the Greek state, apart from the fact that the Institute of Venice is a legal person governed by public law. There can be no other procedure. In any case, moves in choice are mandatory. There is no wide range of options. These people must move to the level at which the earlier scientific addresses of the institute were initiated, so that the director - the president now - can invite researchers, manage the research, publish the magazines, be able to have guest researchers, to attract young researchers to form the continuity and perspective of research in such a critical field. He must be able to speak Italian, to communicate with international literature, etc. So don't be afraid! There is no reason to be miserable or reticent in relation to the selection procedure of the president, namely the man who is hypotensive, who represents the institute, who runs it and who in an area such as Italy, Venice, in an area such as Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies, such as medieval studies, must be a man who has in his name the ability to convince and give prestige. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] It is also obvious - and I am pleased that a relative legislative improvement has been made - that the aims must be those resulting from the transnational agreement between Greece and Italy. The conditions of the donation of the Greek community must also be respected. We have said this sometimes with other colleagues and from what I understand they have been said at the hearing. There is the constitutional protection of Article 107 of the Constitution. Don't open any disputes where there's no reason to open them. And, unfortunately, there is a long tradition of disputes around the issues of the management of the Greek community of Venice. Everywhere Community property creates legal problems. We must be particularly careful on these issues and, above all, we must respect the academic and research character and the prestige and work of this institute, which, of course, has had the difficulty of coexistence with metropolis, cohabiting with the community, cohabiting with our diplomatic services, which, on good terms, often or over-zealously, have had and perhaps have a conflict. But now I see that the fields are divided and we have one management officer, and on the one hand the scientific work of the Institute. I would therefore ask you very much for this: there is no point in anything that comes to debate and vote in this House to oppose or move in a political order. Make a consultation and refer to an impartial, tested, reliable, academic selection process of the President as head of science of the Institute, in order to protect the prestige and perspective of the Institute and to turn the lens of the news and public interest into the work produced by the Institute and not on various issues of management, management, and so on. With your permission, Madam President, I would like a few seconds and because, after several days, I use my right to address this House, I would like to raise another matter which is not related to the bill and I want your tolerance. It has been initiated and completed by what I see successfully the process of exchanging bonds issued in 2012, when great debt intervention was taken, when Greek public debt was nominally bored by 109 billion -129 billion finally by exchanging bonds - and then reduced further in terms of present value, through the extremely favourable conditions of lending the second programme of 2012. I am very pleased that the Government has decided to continue this policy of 2012, taking advantage of these bonds in 2012, the so-called 'post PSI bonds', which kept Greece as a bridge of communication in the markets and enabled it to return to markets after the end of the Support Programme in August 2018. I am pleased that this is how we have a formal act of absolute retrospective adoption and continuation of the 2012 policy. If this had happened since January 2015, if we had not had the break-up and the secondary crisis, we would have long been out of the pressure of the memorials and would have gone through the memorial era, with the preventive credit line agreed and decided by the Eurogroup in November 2012. And here I would like to draw as much attention as possible from the ladies and gentlemen: I should like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the altar of one - communication character - to tell you what clear exit from the Memorandum in August 2018 to sacrifice the country's macroeconomic prospects, namely the country's development prospects, to continue the policy of overhauling resources from the real economy, the policy of overcrowding, with the aim of creating a cash buffer, a cash reserve, an available cash-protection of our efforts to make bonds issues after 2018, in order to cover the country's financial needs, because there is no allegedly a preventive credit line for the ESM at the disposal of Greece, so that we can address the markets and have interest rates, which do not increase the average interest rate and do not change the debt curve in hand by 2060. We have to understand that handling is justified, when this prospect is maintained, that is, when the average interest rate is kept at the lowest possible level, as we have achieved it with the 2012 agreements and when the average debt period is maintained as long as possible, which was taken into account in four years and is now at nineteen years. So you realize how important these manipulations are. I would therefore like to welcome this retrospectively delayed adoption and accession and to call for this one-party and sterile communication approach to be abandoned in relation to the so-called clean exit perspective, which ultimately sacrifices the development perspective in a propaganda mechanism and for us to realise that there is a line, a national strategy, the one our language has been hairy to say from 2010 and to which we have devoted our efforts and our agony to 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u100	We're entering the list of speakers. The first is Mr. Micheloannakis from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u101	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u102	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u103	Madam President, I would like to make an intervention because things have been asked, some proposals have been made in relation to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u104	Okay, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I have listened carefully to your position on the bill and I know that you are well aware of the Venice Institute. I would like to tell you this in order to clarify a few things: the transnational agreement does not mention anything about the purpose. To be clear, I have the transnational agreement here, which I can give you to read. What I'm telling you is inspected. The purpose is mentioned, when it is now established by law of the Greek state - not by transnational agreement - and of course by the organization. And the donation of the Greek Orthodox Community writes something else in it. It writes about the promotion of Greek education through research, etc. It is another wording that I have not mentioned so far. I'm saying this to make things clear. It developed whole literature about purpose, what we're going to do. I do not want to comment on why people do it, but in any case, the last thought that we are hiding, we said exactly what the law of 1951, we did not change a party. That's why we leave the same thing. It's about the president, to say he's right, he's got the pure, if you want, educational, scientific, research work. But you know she's responsible for the others. In other words, the financial manager is not independent. He's under the president. The President shall also have the overall responsibility of the Institute. We're trying - and I think with the bill we'll make it - to upgrade the scientific authority of the Institute. I agree that the President should be a man of prestige, who will contribute in this direction, because of course the faces are also playing their part. The supervisory committee needs to be enlarged, because that gives greater transparency. Three of the five members of the committee are academics and you know that academics are not employees. So these three - basically the supervisory - are taking out a three-member committee of a purely university committee of first and second grades, as it says. They will make the invitation of public interest, they will collect it all, they will evaluate it, approve it and propose it. Madam President, there are urgent needs which need to be addressed because we are in danger. That's why we put the time in three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u106	Madam President, if I may, a word on what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u107	Here you go, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u108	First of all, Minister, you know that I appreciate both your modesty and your good intention to deal with various issues. In the national research centres - at FORTH, at EKTA, at the National Research Foundation - the president also has the administrative responsibility, but is chosen by a purely academic process. And you will allow me to say that it has a great deal of responsibility because it is very personal. It has to face greater administrative difficulties than an institution, an institution which has very small personnel. Therefore, the argument regarding the selection procedure is not valid. The selection procedure of the Greek research centres should be followed, and if not the old Academy or the current General Secretariat for Research and Technology. As far as the Community is concerned, I do not want an additional debate to take place here. I would just like you to bear in mind the past that exists and I think that you have also understood from the hearing of the bodies what is pending in relation to the community. So make that move to protect the institution's authority. This institute is very important and can offer us great pride with its presence there, its purely research. The other things are done, because the Institute's space is a place that is widely exploited, not only to make an exhibition of Byzantine icons, but to engage in activities that are often referred to in contemporary art. There is, of course, no Biennale that does not exploit spaces of the Institute and the Church of Agios Georgios and the broader area of the Flagian School. I would therefore ask you, in the good mood it sees you now, to intervene with the appropriate ministers in order to provide a solution which will enable us to have a long-term breath arrangement for the Venice Institute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u109	Mr Michelovannakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Madam President. After the Minister went through the matter of the Institute's purpose, with his previous intervention, we must also say some truths. Not only does the Venice Institute generate revenue, despite its huge property, but it has charged the budget with millions of euros. It has never been recorded and no one knows the exact number of objects, books and relics. There has already been a loss of thirty-six objects in the Temple of St. George, there are in a terrible state of accumulated objects. While managing public money, there are no books, documents or a computer system. There is a non-transparent management of the real estate. The Institute will now be subject to the general supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and as regards its educational and educational activity, the Ministry of Education. Management bodies are the President - we have exhausted before the election process - and the managing authority. The supervisory authority now connects five, three teachers of the first and second grades and two members appointed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education, with a three-year term of office. Clearly, the membership of the supervisory body as a member of the management body of the Institute, which has been so bad in the past, is incompatible. The Management Committee shall be unpaid and three-member. Its members are the President of the Institute, the Greek Ambassador to Rome and the President of the Hellenic Orthodox Community of Venice. It shall participate without the right to vote and the financial director of the Institute. The Institute's staff are a secretary, an official for administrative support, librarian, cleaner, two guards and potential external partners. The Institute must be financially self-powered. The resources come from the exploitation of the assets, from the sale of tickets, books, from contributions and so many others. It is in no way at risk of becoming a cultural centre. His scientific character is not altered. There is the creation of a new position, the financial director, with the aim of assisting the President in the financial management of the Institute. There will be and will be constant work on the basis of its role and the Scientific Committee. With regard to the appointment of the chairman, the three-member board of the supervisory board will propose to the chairman - known prestige, university - who will hold a general address and have an educational area. As far as the purpose of the Institute is concerned - it clearly shows so much - it provides scholarships, it is linked to well-known and important centres, it works out procedures, which one knows what they are and how much they can work for us and for the benefit of history above all. The purpose remains exactly as it was in the original agreement that had been made. With all this, ladies and gentlemen, there will certainly be an extroversion - the word that has been used so many times in this bill - will be self-evident, it will be independence and it will certainly help the historical and cultural Greek reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u111	Thank you for the time too. Mrs Antoniou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill for the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies, the only legal person governed by public law and the only research institution in our country that is abroad, namely, Venice. It is a bill which could be a first-class opportunity to correct chronic malfunctions and diseases of the institute, to modernise its institutional framework, Minister, but also to promote its research purpose. After all, that was the aim and purpose of the proposals put forward by the New Democracy at the meetings of the relevant committees, namely, the effective modernisation of the Institute, full transparency and integrity, greater extroversion and effective control over financial management. These were the proposals that we tabled as the New Democracy. And I'm explaining. The purpose of the institution was formulated by numerous bodies and by all of us and finally accepted. The purpose of the Institute, as we stressed, is and must remain the promotion of Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies and research on issues relating to them. Any other extension of the purpose of the institute was extremely dangerous and I am pleased that you have adopted this. We are also talking about transparency and dignity. Unfortunately, however, Minister, and in this bill, the government follows the obsolete one that has become accustomed to us in so many bills, as to how it perceives the administration and staffing of the institutions. In another bill, therefore, we see a over-concentration of responsibilities in the person of the relevant ministers who can decide on the basis of the people who will serve the fundamental positions of the Institute. The President of the Institute will be chosen by common decision of the Foreign and Education, Research and Religious Affairs Ministers, following a recommendation from a supervisory committee - you have put this now, on a proposal from us - the members of which will have been appointed by the Ministers themselves, i.e. "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drink". I would remind you that, under the current law, the recommendation, as the previous speaker mentioned, was made by the Athens Academy, namely an uncontrolled agency by the central administration. Extrovert and effectiveness. It was marked by the bodies and other fellow Members. Even the Minister himself who is not here, Mr Gavroglou, admitted that it is not a bad proposal. It is therefore important for the effective functioning of the Institute - and it has been our proposal - to set up an unpaid scientific board consisting of scientists of well-known prestige, from members of the Athens Academy, which will help the President of the Institute in his research work. 'Included','may', now you're changing it to us. Finally, Mr Minister, the'received' is true. Why didn't you ask us to submit the proposals before you submitted the bill? You changed the whole form after proposals from us. Control and accountability for financial management. In order to strengthen the control and transparency in the management of the Institute's financial interests, we have proposed a number of measures such as the fact that the Supervisory Committee can induce exceptional financial control of the Institute by the relevant Committee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also the obligation to carry out the financial control by the same Committee, before the delivery of the outgoing president and the taking up of tasks by its successor. It is also a duty of the President to submit a plan of actions and budgets for the following year, which, once approved by the Supervisory Committee, will become binding. Unfortunately, none of our proposals on the sensitive issue of the management of the Institute's finances have been incorporated into the text of the draft law. After all, a very important opportunity is lost for the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies to modernise, become more extroverted and to translate the important part of the Greek culture it represents throughout the international community. You seem to be interested in controlling everything, serving your small-party interests and the other parties. It seems, in fact, that you are not enough to control all the research institutes in the country within borders. Obviously, you are expanding control beyond borders, the only research institute located abroad, in Venice. However, I am taking this opportunity today, since it is the bill of two Ministers, the Ministers for Education and Foreign Affairs, to raise two important issues concerning both of these Ministers, and we absolutely must see. Minister, the first issue concerns Romania's purely Greek school in Bucharest. I will also present to you here today in plenary a letter from a parent in Bucharest, where Greek birds pay great tuition fees, namely EUR 3,300 to go to a Greek school. This is a very big issue, Minister. We discussed this yesterday in the Committee on the Protestance of Hellenism. I hope that the Minister of Education, who is here, will understand what a parent who has four children to pay 3,300 euros for every child to attend a Greek school. There has not been the planned memorandum of cooperation between Greece and Romania, the tripartite coordination committee. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Give me one more minute, Madam President. Ten days ago, I have to say and inform the House that the Parents and Wardens Association of this school banned a Greek girl from entering the school where she was written. Four goons forbid the kid from getting to school! I give the letter from the parent to the prosecutor, the President of the Republic, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Education. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Antoniou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Please see with any sensitivity you can see this particular issue. And I'd like to have answers. There can't be four goons stopping a Greek girl going to a pure Greek school in the region. Is that the education you're visioning? I also want to tell you about another very important issue that has arisen, Minister, and you know that - I am referring to the Minister of Education - on the issue of the Rhine-Westphalia schools in Germany. The federation of clubs every day sends letters to you. The gaps are unbelievable. The schools, because of the laws you have passed, are trying to make them bilingual. The whole Greek Community is upset there. The children who are now leaving Germany, because their parents are going to work there, must incorporate them into bilingual schools, as you have voted on. So we cannot oblige a child who is now thirteen years old and goes to high school to learn the physics and chemistry in German. Parents’ letters are daily. And what we're told is that the Minister's awkward. On the one hand we are talking about the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies and on the other hand we cannot keep the Greek schools. I would therefore present to you here in Parliament the anxiety and the documents which they have sent, if the Minister for Education is also moved. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Antoniou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Loverdo, you'll be waiting two minutes for the Minister to develop an amendment. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an amendment which has to do with adding an authorised provision to Law 4472/2017, so that joint ministerial decisions, on a case-by-case basis, and the Minister of Finance can make it possible to determine the amount of the basis for calculating the contributions and reservations provided for in the existing legislation in favour of the equity funds, with a need for the new salary. It is an amendment that settles with the new booking fee for only the staff in active employment for certain allowances that have been abolished and for others that have entered. The amendment is purely formal and I call for the support of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u115	What about the equity funds?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u116	Yeah. Some reservations are abolished with the new payroll and some other funds are regulated. It's purely formal. I also want to tell you that we have asked the Minister of Finance the new salary to apply from 1-1-2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u117	Mr Andreas Loverdos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u118	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I very much respect the issue that is trying to regulate today's draft law. I said this morning, by making a procedural proposal that has been accepted - my respect for this issue has forced me to make the procedural proposal - not to discuss the single amendments, to focus on the draft law and the amendments - they are, they are not controversial - to speak in a second time. The Bureau has accepted this request - for anyone who wants it, of course - and so our prototypes are devoted exclusively to the draft law and, in the course of the afternoon, we will talk about the amendments. I did this because the amendments also include amendments by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence, which nowadays have some tension on their issues, and I do not want our arguments to be mixed, our remarks, in tabling our proposals for this draft law. Secondly, before I come to my point, I would like to ask the Minister to look at the comment of the Scientific Studies Directorate for Article 9(2) in relation to authorisation to the regulatory management. It may correct some things that will cause problems if someone of course has recourse to the issues regulated by this article. Thirdly, I would really like to refer to the majority rapporteur, Mr SYRIZA, who spoke first, as the Minister had just tabled a series of legislative improvements which in essence are amendments and which many of them, as Mr Constantopoulos said, are changes. Good or bad, we will see, but they are changes in relation to what you have been discussing in the Standing Committee. Did the majority colleague argue in favour of the plan without the changes or with the changes? I don't think it was possible to see them. We cannot, however, just start here, especially when we are rapporteurs, without having a picture of the draft law, as is ultimately the case. I would like an answer on that too. She'd be useful, at least for me. On the substance, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the draft law, the outline and the data of the draft law were given today by the rapporteurs of the Democratic Association, Mr Constantopoulos and Mr Potamios, Mr Psarianos. I live in what both colleagues in the Change Movement have said. The Change Movement, therefore, with two MPs belonging to Potami and Democratic Association, today submitted his views to the Greek Parliament after the 2015 elections and this is very important to us. I will focus my speech on the historical and cultural importance of the Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies. I will do this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is worth it in front of the National Representation, as well as its prestige and radiation, precisely because it is the only educational institution that we have as a country in this particular matter. There is also one issue that needs to be commented on - I will do so - the place where this institution is located, that is, Venice, because this city has been linked for centuries to the Greek culture and to the Greek element, making it the closest point of the West in the Byzantine world. Méreas, then, Venice was the closest way out for all Greeks and Greek women who decided to leave the east and cross the west. Others went there for a short or long time, but for a short period of time. Others also carried their properties there and lived their whole lives and their families continued their presence there. Venice should also be pointed out as a focal point in Greek printing during the 15th and 16th centuries, because there were very good, important written efforts in the Renaissance period. We must not forget - and many times we have missed it, but let us retain it and record it in our Minutes - that after Latin, the second language of typography was Greek. This strong Greek colony, which I mentioned earlier, was the reason why the Greek letters should be raised there and there should be a new important page in the history of our letters. Classic books today, that is, after centuries, Greek writers were printed in Venice and I quote Aldo Manuios as an example. It would be no exaggeration to say that the value of this writing is worth the weight of gold. In this city, therefore, in Venice, in 1951 the Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies, which continues its activities to date, was founded. There has been talk of this action by many and many colleagues who have spoken today at the National Representation, at a time when these searches and the way of life of this kind are not at the forefront of the news, not only because of the crisis in recent years, but also because of our approach to our own lives. The Foundation continues, in spite of all the difficulties, to defend and promote the development of science worldwide, while at the same time supporting many other different actions, including the Graphs Report and the grant of scholarships. It would certainly have been better for society and for the political life of the place to have succeeded in agreeing both with the Standing Commission and with us here today, in too many basics and for everyone to go to the vote together. We have uncertain differences in economic and political matters, we have tensions, such as the ones we lived on Monday and we will live in the next few days, we have things that separate us, but we have things to be united. One of these - and I expected it to be debated this week, but I hear it will go next week - is the interventions of the Ministry of Education on the Sharia, which is not justified there, nor tension nor confrontation. We have to be positioned exactly the same way. It is wrong, therefore, that there should be controversy over this educational institution and that is why we are also keeping this tone and we and Potami in this debate in Parliament, putting our views forward and making proposals for changes. " So you have seen, and so far, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the tons that we hold and we will continue to hold. I support what I support as a member of the Democratic Association and support what I support as a Member of the Greek Parliament and as a university professor. We have to agree and I regret that it is not possible at this time to agree on the basics. Of course, I hear Mr Amanatidis, I hear his views, and I see the changes he has made and I am glad that he has this attitude in the Greek Parliament. However, we must all bear in mind that what we are doing today is not about majority voting and minority voting, but about the aim of the product of legislative intervention to give a long period of life in the future for this institution, not to make mistakes, not to cause injuries that cannot be healed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not discussing a simple matter. We're not talking about a simple educational institution. We are talking about this Foundation, which has as its purpose the association of our "is", what creates us as a nation of the Greeks. The bridge between the ancient world and the modern Greeks, the modern Greek women, is Byzantium, which has been neglected for a long time by both our educational system and our politics and our targets, not by accident. The "Westernism" of Greece, which was a positive political function and a very positive orientation, was not a simple and innocent story within the centuries. He had conflicts behind her, he was obsessed, he had delays, we concealed our "is" as a product and a thousand years of our Byzantine history and other nations continue to hide these thousands of years in the formation of European culture, modern European culture. Panagiotis Canelopoulos has said a very important phrase, which I think confuses what I'm trying to tell you. "Byzantium had until the end of the 19th century very unfairly and the contribution of the Byzantine spirit to the formation of European culture was decisive. We don't respect them - or we didn't respect him - in our education system in the way he deserves. There are schools in the private sector that emphasise in the context of circular teaching in Byzantine history and Byzantine culture, but in the current, this passes without the other one knowing what Byzantine history is." There was a political party that had set itself the goal of becoming a genuine Byzantine Museum. The Byzantine Museum we have in Athens is small. It's got to get a lot bigger. It hasn't happened yet. There was a political party that had put it in its schedule at the time of the country's acne, but did not carry it out, he did not notice, he left, he lost, and the crisis fell. Then we forgot. We must not forget them. So I think that, in talking about this institution, we are talking about our 'is' and we must be very careful. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. Minister, instead of confronting what you have said to the Standing Committee and what you have brought today, I would like to ask you to listen carefully to the comments of two people that I appreciate and believe you, too. I am referring to Mrs Arveler. I'll read from yesterday's article by Mr. Cassimatis a village. This journalist was informed of the efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Mrs Arveler's intervention and Mr Cassimatis copys it: "I am amazed to learn that a bill is still being discussed for the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice, the best and only institution that Greece happened to have abroad and this thanks to its most worthy directors, from Manousa Manousa to Chrysa Maltese. Definitely, Argits! This institute, if it does not keep scientific knowledge, will become, as I learn, other than others." That was Mrs Arveller's position. The position of Mr.Apostolos Doxiadis: "The bill for the Institute of Venice recently presented by the two relevant ministries, foreign and education, with the ultimate protagonist the first, stinks from where you get it. From the beginning, i.e. the diversion of the institute from its main purpose, the abolition of the salvage to the present role of the Athens Academy...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u119	Do you think there's a change of purpose?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u120	The role of the Academy remains a matter. "...the choice of directors and the supervision of good functioning, as more than the Director's selection to governmental bodies. The bill is intended to salt the institute and turn itself from hidden pride of spiritual Hellenism, into a blocked centre of interest service, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u121	Do you believe that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u122	Please, Mr. Dousina.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u123	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u124	Mr Minister, you have a criticism of this attempt. Opposition has also pointed out to the Standing Committee, and today is flaws and problems. I did not come here today to exchange conflict arguments. From the beginning of my speech to the end I will remain in the same tone. I have my second word this afternoon to deal with a number of other issues. But now, do you believe that you are standing in the right mind or doubting this criticism? If you have doubts, you must make further changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "Research and we are discussing Governor John Kapodistrias" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st PES of Saints Anargyrus. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with three speakers and then Mr Javarras will speak. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u126	Madam President, I would like to take the floor precisely because Mr Lovers mentioned my name. Of course, I want to be honest. It's not personal. I just asked, if I may, that I take the floor for half a minute and answer something immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u127	Yes, but you should have asked me to do that before I call the next speaker and expose him here. Wait till you get the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u128	It's not personal, Madam President. Let the MPs speak. My colleague admitted that it is not on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u129	I have asked to speak with my colleague's tolerance. Since my colleague has been up in Stepa, I am not talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u130	Let Mr. Carras speak and...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u131	Okay, I have tolerance. It's not a question. I don't know what it's about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u132	I would just like to reply to Mr Loverdo, since you think I can answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u133	So every time a speaker refers to the rapporteur, will the latter answer? You have a Minister, you have a parliamentary representative to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u134	I think it is important and I have made it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Karras has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Madam President. From now on, and as far as possible to be informed by the discussions of the bill in the committees, the value and importance of the Venice Institute for Greek letters, Greek life and continuity in Europe have emerged, since it is indeed the link between the Eastern Byzantine Empire and the Western Venetian and the wider European area. I read this bill, compared to the previous one, and I have to say that it certainly has some changes, which are trying to give it a ministerial character, to transfer a number of powers to the ministers so that it can be checked. On the one hand it is important because, as a Greek legal person governed by public law, there must indeed be public accounting and financial control, because there have been disseminations, I do not have a picture of the past, although I have visited the Institute on various economic issues. Therefore, with regard to the part of the legal person governed by public law for the Greek reality, I agree with and is maintained. But what has created a series of concerns for me, and I would like to put them to the Greek Delegation, is this: it is founded in Athens, but it works in Venice. It is dominated by a huge fortune of the Greek community - the sixty-five known properties which I do not know are wholly owned or used simply - and therefore we have an issue here, which I do not see is not affected or treated. On the one hand, we have the application of Greek public law to the administrative bodies. On the other hand, given the seat in Venice, we have Italian law and, in particular, the ordinary civil law. Unfortunately, Minister, Mr Amanatidis, I have not yet heard how to deal with this and I must put it. You will allow me to put it. I am referring to the decree of 1949, which refers to the Italian and Greek Governments' agreement, between the two governments, that the Italian Government undertakes to establish the Institute and by agreement, which will be signed within four months, to regulate in particular the legal status of the Institute and the disposal of the assets of the Orthodox Greek Community of Venice. So I have the question if the legal status of property has ever been regulated under this agreement. You'll tell me later, Minister. I have this question. If it has not been regulated to date, I think it is not enough to discuss the law of the administration of the institute by the Greek state. There must be a transnational agreement, of course, on which a number of issues will be raised. What will be the legal status of the Institute? What's bothering me? The application of private Italian law is also evident in the draft law introduced by the Government. It says in Article 7(3): ‘The failure to fulfil the financial obligations of the Institute in no case creates any liability of the Greek State’. It runs the Greek state, the administration what it will do, we do not know how much the Greek grant is and whether it grants it and how much it is, because it also has own resources and on the other hand, Greece says: "I am regressing responsibility for any question of the institution's debts". But how will the Institute function when it does not have its guarantor, the Greek state? Do you know what's left as a guarantor of the institute? The sixty-five properties of the Greek community, which were given for the purpose of operating the Institute, not as a guarantee of lucky financial obligations, because when we talk about a legal person governed by public law, he must also have the help, but also the grant of the Greek state really and substantially, to meet his needs. Think, then, of what will happen in a time of danger. I'm not saying that it may be due to the poor management of the institute alone. It could be due to a crisis in the Italian economy. In the Greek economy at least, the properties have been devalued, there are no leasers and they do not pay rent. Therefore, in a crisis, the institute can also be deprived of its resources and create debts. The demands are on Italian territory, the demands are directed against the Institute and there is the right to intervene in the Italian courts. Is the requirements to be met by these properties? So I think we should move on to the post-law. Not only should we include a new transnational agreement on the legal status, but, if you wish, you also have the opportunity to grant a right to an Italian institution in Greece, to impose rights of judicial review in order to protect this property, so that it does not jeopardise or alter the provision, and to say that it is a guarantor of the Greek state and that the property of the community is not guaranteed, as you leave it to its fate. It is an important issue, which I think has not yet touched the thought, but unfortunately in my own mind, if you like, - let it be funny - a twisted legal thought, that is where I stood by seeing the provisions of the bill. A next issue I would like to raise, which is of value in this debate, is that, as the only spiritual institution of the Greek state in Europe and worldwide, it has a difference: it must be supported independently of control, because at the present time we have a spiritual leadership deficit. I have become tiring in this Chamber, and beyond Ethiopia, by saying that we have a spiritual leadership deficit and that because of this we do not have the new ideas that are needed. Everything moves around and moves about the economic crisis, and if we had personalities of unknown prestige, which would give us the new ideas, we might be able to get out of this wave we are on today. I think, therefore, that this institute, which is the chain of history between Hellenism - I call it Byzantine Hellenism - and Western Europe and history and intellectual succession, should be strengthened more and should not be left behind, as is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs will designate the President and whether the Minister for Education will supervise scientific and educational work. Let's get out of this quadruple. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minimum tolerance, please, Madam President. I have heard the opinion of the committee - and I have now said this - that we no longer need such institutions, because it is a research institution, while we have a new law, Mr.4386, which upgraded the Greek research institutes. It is not the purpose of the internal research institutes themselves for the purpose of the Venice Institute. They are indeed differentiated in terms of political objectives, if you like, because it is not just educational, educational or educational in the presence of this institution. It must also translate the idea of a modern spiritual Greece and maintain it and not be degraded today, possibly in the future, in the service of one or two ministries or the administration concerned being subject to the appetites or suggestions of ministers we do not know. I doubt nothing today, Minister. I'm talking about the future. A law can leave such deficits and can at any time be claimed by the Institute other purposes that escape the objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the Italian School "Julius Caesar". The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u138	Madam President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u139	Here, Mrs. Triantafel, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much. I would like to make a simple clarification. Mr Loverdos asked whether I was placed on the basis of legislative changes or not. I have read and placed myself on the basis of the legislative changes, which I have pointed out both these three and the others that were before the committees. So we're talking about fairness. I would say to Mr Loverdo, not in my own words, but in the words of an ancient choreographer: 'Enough to present, the traces do not live'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u141	Thank you. Mrs Eleni Aylonitos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Before I refer to the bill, I would like to give a reply to Mr Venizelos, who, in trying to justify his policy, has put the country into the crisis, put it in the memorials and a policy that had the country even deeper in the memoranda, urged us, in other words, not to use the net exit from the memoranda, is what has been undermined by development, but to use the preventive support line, as he had planned. This means that if something goes wrong, we will have to borrow again, we will have to sign Memorandums again, we will have to take measures, that is, condemn the Greek people in an austerity without end. However, we, ladies and gentlemen, will be the government that will lead the country out of the crisis - a crisis in which you, the New Democracy - and the PASOK - have put it to the fore, and we will guide it safely and definitively. I now come to today's subject. The current bill for the "Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies" relates to a Greek scientific institute based abroad in Venice, operating as a Greek legal person governed by public law, that is to say, a very special case in the field of Greek research institutes. Having a country of scientific institutions based in another country is not particularly common. The Greek case of the Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice is a historical exception and the proper functioning of the Institute is of particular importance to our country. The Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies has been subject to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since its establishment, as this dictates his position to the Ministry of Education, since this dictates his theme, with the participation of the Academy of Athens and the Hellenic Community of Venice in his administration. Over the years there has been a malfunction of the Institute, which is coming to resolve today's bill. We had here, among other things, the rather well-known phenomenon of the malfunctioning of public bodies that are subject to co-responsible ministries, where, apart from the desire to cooperate with the co-responsible ministers concerned, the attitude, the way in which the bureaucratic machinery of the two co-responsible ministries is operated and the priorities of the bureaucratic machinery of the two co-responsible ministries are not easily identified. So today's bill gives the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a light head start, and clearly defines in Article 1 the cultural, research and educational objectives of institutions, which were absent from the founding law of 1746 of the year 1951. There have been proposals from relevant bodies to add a third co-president to the Ministry of Culture. However, while one understands the thematic relevance, the bill promotes the functionality and role of the Institute in the cultural promotion of Greece, which is an important form of projection of mild power in Greece internationally. However, this project does not at all reduce the scientific function of the institution, since the projection of the country depends on the very high level of scientific functioning of the institution. If there is no high scientific level, then we will simply stay with a public service housed in a very beautiful building in Romantic Venice. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs therefore has every reason to keep the scientific level of the institution high because it is intended to be used diplomaticly. I understand, of course, the reservations expressed by the scientific community, which focus on the fact that this institution does not function exactly like all other research and university institutions in the country. I fear, however, that these objections demonstrate precisely the difficulty of the scientific community to fully understand the parallel diplomatic role of the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice. Of course, you will tell me that all the research institutes in Greece contribute to Greece's international visibility, each depending on its scientific achievements. But that is not the main reason for their existence. Their researchers do not feel this projection as their main obligation. And I'm telling you that I'm the researcher. After all, they are not located in the international "vitrina", as found by the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies. And that is, ladies and gentlemen, a complete response to a previous colleague, because this institute is very special and because the president's selection procedure is different from that of the country's respective selection in HEIs or research institutes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Of course, the bill does not exhaust any detail of the institution's operation in twelve articles. This is to be done at the Institute's organization, which will be the subject of a presidential decree proposed by the two co-legislative ministries. There surely special attention must be paid to ensuring the Foundation's high scientific level, which, to speak practically, depends more on the details of its operation and less on the great declarations of founding law. So, in view of the fact that this bill is appropriate, it is excellent, it is effective, I am voting in favour of both the principle and the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u143	Mr Stavros Kalafatis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this House, the National Representation, is the top political body. In addition to the debate on a substance that is often achieved, we must see and how institutional procedures are respected, i.e. whether the function is in line with the rules and not just looking at the substance, because procedures are often essential. I am referring to the fact that substantial amendments concerning the meaning and content of the bill here have not even come as late-term amendments, they have not even come as last-minute amendments by the government. We see, with the headlines and overlap of the legislative improvement, that substantial provisions of the draft law are changed and, in fact, that a change in the meaning of the draft law is actually achieved, which, for many weeks, colleagues have been discussing in the committees and not just in the committees. This, you know, is very important and even more than that in the New Democracy we have become aware of these covert legislative improvements, which essentially contain a change of meaning, five minutes before the meeting begins. We have indeed seen it, and the SYRIZA rapporteur has tried to cover it. We have seen the main suggestion made by the SYRIZA rapporteur on the basis of existing legislative improvements. You realize we're talking about a caricature here. There can be no real dialogue. This is also an indication of how the government understands good legislation. It's a long way from the good legalization. So we see substantial changes at the last minute, without, of course, having the timely information. And, as our rapporteur said, changes were made for 15 days and we were notified five minutes ago. So this shows the seriousness with which the government legislates in such an important bill. On the substance, I will make a small reference to a part that the government has amended, but I will explain why I am making the reference. The Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies Venice is indeed a unique research institution of high prestige in the international scientific community and with internationally recognized scientific work and, indeed, it has been playing for decades quietly but obscure, a leading scientific, cultural and wider national role, with a huge contribution to the promotion of Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies and studies of the Greek world and with a great contribution to the extroversion of Greek scientific research and communication and cooperation between the Greek and international scientific community. Ladies and gentlemen, the founding purpose of the Institute is primarily and exclusively the promotion of Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies, i.e. scientific and research purposes. Any other action, related activity and an ancillary role arises from its main purpose and cannot substitute it. This, of course, is also based on the transnational agreement between Greece and Italy when the Institute was set up in 1948. So any attempted change that puts the service of this objective in doubt will effectively stumble in its achievement, distorts the nature of the Institute and substantially runs counter to the precise framework of the transnational agreement. You will tell me: 'We have understood this and changed it'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u145	No, it's not predictable. I'd like to present the transnational agreement to you. I'm sorry to interrupt. The transnational agreement doesn't set the point. He's putting on everything that's only founded. The law next is who puts it and says the purpose, to be clear, for this to be made clear in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u146	This law, as I understand it, is basically maintained as it stands. It does not eventually change in terms of purpose.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u147	That's right, it's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u148	My point is that what was self-evident, Minister, had to come to an effective conclusion today, in order to understand it, just five minutes before the plenary session began. I would like to say that such a serious issue shows the real will of the government. It was good that the New Democracy was here and then, of course, also a number of actors and the government changed its mind. I want to identify, in other words, the fact that there are issues, such as this, that the New Democracy is coming forward and gives the opportunity to change for the better. But that, Minister, is not enough. First of all, it shows your real will not to go in the right direction in time, so there was another reasoning. Secondly, there is a number of other issues which concern what other colleagues have mentioned, the attempt shown by a number of provisions, although efforts have been made - I must admit - to have fun with these impressions, but they were not - I think that we are all convinced that this great state cloak, the state - Father, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the political influence, the political comitology on this important scientific institute. But I do not think that you have convinced us so far of the efforts you have made. With this in mind, then, we are too cautious in dealing with this legislation, in voting on this piece of legislation, and I think we have good evidence to support this view. May I say that I have asked a question and I expect Mr Kotzias to reply in relation to the understanding which the Mayor of Thessaloniki has said there is between him and the Minister in relation to the visit of the mayor to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. There was an issue in Thessaloniki. There was also a discussion at the Thessaloniki Municipal Council, where I am head of the major opposition, because the mayor, who also at a previous visit to the Macedonian state, made a word-only blow, for which he apologized, repeated the same mistake. In other words, in an official visit to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and present high officials under its constitutional name, he called on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. That, by the way, I'm telling you. The question I ask the Ministry and I would like you to take it to the Minister, to answer as quickly as possible, to what extent and to what extent was the understanding, which the mayor publicly, on all channels, said he had done with the Minister before his visit. In fact, the mayor mentioned in an interview with an approved newspaper that he also made a report, a report, about what was distributed between him and high officials. And I am referring to first-line officials, the President, the Prime Minister and the FYROM Foreign Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th Corinth High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, the Member, Mrs Theodora Bakoyannis, is calling for a short-day leave from the work of Parliament and the Committees, from 29-11-2017 to 30-11-2017, invited to Belgium by the Head of the PPE Group Manfred Weber, in order to attend the nomination ceremony of the "Constantine Mitsotakis" Chamber in the European Parliament. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u150	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Javarras has the floor for twelve minutes and then three speakers will follow from the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I would like to assure you that I personally consider you to be the most innocent of those at times who have attacked the Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice. This is not the first time that, in this same way, it is essentially attempting to dissolve all the symbolic stock collected in this institute, that is, in the areas of the Faculty of Flangian, by research and scientific documentation from all the scientists who have been involved in Byzantine history, as is shown by the archives that exist in this institute. And in 1982, in the same way, an attack against a skilled scientist, Manousa Manousa, was launched. He was accused by the then government of the change of crook, for a thief, of a series of management irregularities, which eventually took the path of justice, but he is leaving for that government effort there. Unfortunately, however, he was unable to hide his bitterness about what the government at the time had reserved him, even though it was considered - and still considered - to be one of the most inscribed and skilled researchers. You do the same today. In the face of Ms. Chryssa Maltese, who until 2012 was the director of this project, it seems all the evil and all the inhumanity that your Government holds on these people, who were indeed statues and science and research in this particular area. Mrs. Maltese has at least been recognized as the director who received the property, received the institute, received the spiritual treasures, exploited them and organized them. He renovated the church of Agios Georgios, renovated and modernised the Faculty of Flagne and reached the point where the finances of this institute came to deliver them to your Government to such an extent and to such a great blossom that today in article 7 of the bill you have the right to say that this particular institute is self-financed. This director is, using the Institute's material and intangible resources, he has been able to reach the point that he does not need state resources for his operation. And today, what are you actually doing? The ones chosen by the Athens Academy, those of the directors most of whom ended up academics, because they really glorified the spirit and work of Greek scientists in this area, today you are coming and saying that this regime cannot continue in the name of cultural diplomacy and of it - I consider it worthy of any criticism by an honest citizen - to submit the Presidents' choice to the government's authority. This is the big difference, this is the big incision. That's why you're blamed. It is unthinkable when the Athens Academy is the country’s highest spiritual institution. Note that it still operates with the same founding law, i.e. Law No.4398/1929. No government has changed it since today. No government, even the government of change, even your 'New Politics' government, or I do not know how otherwise you will call the introduction of this abhorrence that you bring to the political level against the old political world and whatever has been in this place. So no one in this very particular legislation dared to put a single 'yes' in it. Do you know why? For Article 1 of this law - which says what the purpose of the Academy is - states that the purpose of the Academy is: "The cultivation and promotion of sciences, letters and arts" - be careful - "through the concentration of the surfaces of scientists and artists in Greece". You also deprive them of the right to choose a director or president, who should have all the work of research and science you say, although you do not antenna it, you say that you are maintaining, as the purpose of this institution, the effort to research and scientific research, but what you are actually doing is that you make it an instrument in a party to the government. This is the really great attack, the great and unprecedented attack that is taking place and which, as far as I can see, is unfortunately going to take place. To date no one has been able to produce results. But I would also like to draw a conclusion. And because I really appreciate you both as a human and as a policy of your mildness, in Greece, apart from class struggles in history, so-called social struggles for recognition have taken place. In other words, social struggles that risk claiming authority and prestige, the claim of symbolic capital accumulated either in university institutions or in foreign institutions related to Greece. And here I see, unfortunately, that these social struggles - and what I am going to say here - are struggles which do not have the element of either uprightness or honesty, but stem from very wicked intentions filled with evil, which many times apart from the element of fraud have the element of old humanity. And I'm saying that why? Because it is certain that it has been done. They all know that within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there are some officials who, in cooperation with some minority group where they exist in Venice long ago and not now, want to succeed in getting out of the academy's jurisdiction and competence this spiritual institution and go to service the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's actually what you're doing. Although you are indeed complaining that you are not changing the cause so much, you are changing the body that is responsible for defining the function, action and the means by which these objectives will be served. That is why, if it is true - which I believe in the background - you have the sincere desire to give this institution a breath that goes beyond any struggling there - and indeed exists - from the moment on, you have to give the Athens Academy the right to define, as has been the case since 1951, the director or the president. So I think that your intentions too will prove to be pure and that what I said before, although they have been written in the press, do not correspond to the truth. Otherwise, I fear that it will be on this particular page, the brilliant page of scientific and spiritual Greece, which represents the Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice as the epilogue we have seen in the work of Viscodi "Death in Venice". Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u152	Mr Javarra, thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u153	Madam President, I should like to table the legislative improvements that I have said in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u154	Put them in the Minutes, so they can come and sign them. You've read them. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u155	Yes, as I said in my position, for the two changes in relation to the first and second tiers, as well as for the fact that'may be provided for in the Agency' leaves and is replaced by 'the Agency'. Furthermore, Madam President, there is an amendment from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the translation service. Can I now speak to the rapporteurs of the parties in mind, so that we can close this matter? The amendment has been shared, there is already.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u156	You bring here the legislative improvements, to share them, which is a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u157	I'm making the legislative improvements to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u158	I would ask that it be distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u159	As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs operates the translation service, whose function is integrated into the organization of the Ministry itself and performs a specific role with ratification, translation, etc. I would like to say that this service, like the translators who have a special status, with the shortcomings that exist, is making a great effort and needs a reform. What we all want in the Greek Parliament and as a government is for the citizen to be served. This amendment to know that it is the result of a committee set up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and which has been set up by all the institutions and which unanimously reached the amendment we have tabled in this House. What are we doing? We are basically saying what these documents can be validated, what we are translating, secondly, we are establishing for the first time the register of official translators from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, thirdly, more substantial, the authorisation is given so that there is an internal regulation that will allow us to reform e-commerce. We want to make a great effort to make the delivery of cards electronically, as well as the charge, and to leave this picture given by assembling and, of course, the way in which the translators are paid with which their credits will actually be committed - especially for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - so that the translators are paid and we have no question of there being no money. There are sometimes these excuses especially from the Ministries, not from the individuals who go. Especially from the Ministries, because the volume of service documents they translate is too great - they know about those who are in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - and there must be the advancement, at least for some amounts, because they usually know how many translations they do, most of them in the Ministry of Justice, as you know, Mr Kumucako, so that translators can be paid. The others repeat what is already in the body and it could not be done otherwise, so that they can be guaranteed. This amendment will, of course, be included when the organization becomes a whole and will be part of the organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, Madam President, I did not speak with names in my place. We're trying to have an epilogue in pathogens. We have a prologue and a bright path ahead. I will tell you, however, that many times the choice from any good instrument, if you want it, is not in itself what it finally guarantees - it can guarantee to some extent - whether it works well or not. The result is all the pathogens that have existed. I won't go into a nomenclature. I would like to make one more comment. If Mrs. Arveler and Mr. Doxiadis had read and seen the changes we have in the bill, they wouldn't have expressed themselves like that. I believe that they were the victims of poor information that it is actually going to happen that we are going to bring it down. I say again that we could change our goals. The purpose could be changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u160	Why don't you put the academy on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u161	I'll tell you. Mr. Javarra, I'm in place now. The purpose can be changed. There's no problem. To make this clear and not to be heard again, because it is a pity for the House that this is. We're not changing him. Because it has been said and I do not want there to be any suspicion that we want to change the status of the Foundation. That's the whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u162	Next speaker is Ms. Big housekeeper, Independent MP, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, today we are talking about a bill involving two important ministries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. We refer to the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies, which had an antiquated statute, which we want to amend, to modernise the Institute. But that should have been done long ago. Do we find that now was the right time? Its statute is a statute of the 1960s and we are in 2017 and now we want to shape it to modernise it. These two ministries, which bring today's bill, have not had any other things to do with reality, which are more directly related to society, at a time of such great crisis and so many major issues? Was this amendment so flammable? Personally, I see that two ministries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education are involved. In fact, the Ministry of Education, which is more relevant to Greek education and especially to the Greek public institutions, is more concerned with the Institute of Venice than with the institutions that are here. Because there are practical issues in the Greek public institutions, such as schools, universities and all educational institutions. I will submit a document from the directors of the public IEKs to the Ministry of Education, who have notified you, stating that public IEKs and their students do not even have photocopiers and toners. That is why the directors of the Pan-Hellenic Union of Public IEC have protested. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the three meetings of the Standing Committee on Formatological Affairs, which we participated, we have proposed various changes - and I have also proposed changes. Of course, it was more important to modernise the statute, but there were not too many clarifications. In the first order I objected to the appointment of the President of the Institute. In the light of many of the points made in Article 4, paragraph 3, which is somewhat improved now. In other words, you have brought us a new provision, with which you are somehow trying to make things look good. So, what do I mean? You are bringing us a new unpaid committee, made up of academic members, which the supervisory committee will take into account. But this committee, which will be composed of academic members - and now you have told us of primary education, professor, etc. - to be appointed by the Supervisory Committee, which is controlled by the Ministry. In other words, the Minister appoints the Supervisory Committee and the Supervisory Committee appoints another committee to propose the academic members. There's ambiguity in that. I mean, it's still controlled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I do not think that it strengthens the scientific character it must have, because there is ambiguity, and you do not let another body choose. I come to the second provision, which requires an amendment, and is paragraph 2 (f) and (g) of Article 7 on grants and financing by public bodies. At least, I believe that this institute no longer needs to be financed by the Greek public. He has huge real estate and movable property, sells books, receives donations. I don't think the Greek state has that much money to give it funding. Let him do it alone. Also with regard to state funding, as the General Accounting Office of the State tells us, we are not given the amount of any expenditure, to what level it will reach. It's a question, and that's a question. He's not giving us a limit. We also have the replacement of paragraph 3 of Article 1 on hosting visitors and researchers. We add paragraph 3 of Article 8 on scholarships and guests. Here, we have again an ambiguity about the selection process and a general reference to the establishment of the unpaid scientific board for this purpose. So how will scholars or guests be chosen? There is no article in the statute that shows us the character of it. We don't have a body that tells us exactly how these guest scholars will be chosen. The need to safeguard the Byzantine and post-Byzantine Institute is clear. But we must take account of the views of the Association of Greek Archaeologists on the formalization of the association of the Institute with the Ministry of Culture and Sport. They have even sent the letter and what they want exactly. They say that the institute includes objects of Byzantine and post-Byzantine very high size, so there must be protection from archaeologists and there must be criteria in this regard. I believe that the Institute is a truly important institution that shows Greece and abroad. I believe, however, that this cultural heritage, and the local and regional heritage, should be presented abroad, but also the Institute should be subject to certain conditions and conditions. There are too many ambiguities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u164	Before giving the floor to the next speaker on the list that Mr Sevastakis is, I will give the floor to the Minister, Mr Spirtzi, to develop the amendment soon. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Madam President. This is the amendment with a general number of 1364. It's a point of order. In October 2014, a law was added to the Ministry of Finance to ensure that contracts from EUR 500,000 to EUR 1,000,000 pass through legality checks by each body's manager. Unfortunately, it did not come out in 2014 circular to the services to follow this process. Therefore, a problem has arisen in the implementation of many projects both in the region and in the region and four - five projects that had been integrated into a CSR in 2013, 2014 and earlier for the completion of those projects. We are coming to correct this procedural issue so that projects can be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Sevastakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course, Mr Spirtzi, it would be interesting at some point to discuss the correlation between the work and its budget and the technical quality of the work, so with the ex post verification of the reliability of the study.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u168	We'll have a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u169	Today's bill leads to a very interesting field of discussion, proof that it ranged from extremism questions posed by Mr. Loverdos, to the grand film by Luke Viscodi, mentioned by Mr. Javaras, "Death in Venice", with Bogard and Mangano, and this total ageing that is illustrated by...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u170	The script who wrote it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u171	Thomas Mann. This film describes a general ageing, so I'm afraid the petition of the bill is different, it's another way. It is the renovation and reconstruction and resolution, or at least this is the effort, the organizational reorganisation of a very important institute. I will accept what Venizelos and Lover have put in trouble. Byzantium is a refreshing historical historical to western thinking, proof that Gobric manages it awkwardly in the legendary "Time of Art". It is awkwardly managed by Byzantine performance, by Byzantine idiosyncrasies. We have also not succeeded in solving the problem of how Byzantium assimilated Roman empiricalism and evolved with historical areas in the management of possibly the humanitarian ideal of the Renaissance. We know very well that the destruction of the Byzantine state is not a disaster of the languages or visas it had established. Part, then, of the Byzantine project passes, dispersed into Renaissance and perhaps in Manierism. These questions are of interest and therefore show from the side that the Institute's field of action is very important. Also a second element is that the Institute is essentially the most organized, the most hegemony of the cultural institutions available to our country abroad. Our country does not have the mechanisms of cultural penetration and diplomacy available to the major historical countries, the flag states, Germany, France and Italy. It does not, therefore, have this mechanism that in the community that symbolizes the removal of the relationship between the Greek project and the West, that is, Venice, has this very important cultural mechanism. The bill is therefore attempting to renew the conditions under which it is set up, set up and behaves its scientific substrate and also tries to reconstruct it organisationally. We know very well that the bills are great shapes, they are general regulations. There are much more important legal or regulatory structures in the second year, such as the rules of procedure. I think that the improvement, specialisation and definition of the organisational arguments are pending. But I wanted to stay in a debate beforehand about the purpose. We know very well that the purpose is maintained, but this is also partly true, because the purpose is ideologically redefined. We know very well that the purpose is not an unchanged historical size. The promotion of Byzantine studies is defined, but what we as a project of Byzantine studies are predominant is different and at stake in history. The purpose is defined and redefined ideologically. So a bill has internally a kind of mortality, a kind of transientity, and so we need to see it by perhaps dismantling tensions that we don’t need. This is a very good point. We need compositions and especially on issues, which I think our anxiety is common and our national deficit is also common. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u172	Thank you. Mr Anastasiades has the floor from New Democracy, as there has been a change with Mrs Rapt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today and we are talking about a bill, for which we could have full convergence and composition of opinions and positions. We could agree on all things, because we all recognise the need to improve legislation that defines the function and actions of the historical Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice, for which our positive attitude and attitude was reflected in the debate in the committees. However, we can once again see that the government is legislating under a light of narrow party logic. Through a control lens you bring today a bill that aims to fade the renowned Venice Institute with a history of sixty years and a great work on its assets and turn it into a partisan centre to serve your interests. And while it seems reasonable and legitimate to update and adapt the legislative framework of its operation to the needs of today's times and needs, what you are bringing us today is no more than your incomprehensible and unreasonable legality in the direction of control of the Institute, which has been highlighted in both the committees and the recommendation of our main rapporteur. We in this process and debated it consensually and conducted constructive and well-deserved criticism. We proceeded with concrete proposals, aiming for the effective institutional shielding and upgrading of the functions of the Institute, to fulfil its objectives. We have sought to prevent the institution from being caught in the political moods of the respective government. Besides, this may be in vain, because the governments change, this Minister may not be a Minister tomorrow, but the Institute will continue to exist, operate and produce work. We should be concerned about the investigation and expansion of actions and the preservation of the main purpose of the Institute, as was seen by its founders and as foreseen by its recommendation to a legal person governed by public law in 1951, which was accepted and which is to the honour of the Minister. Also, the legitimate and legally controlled activities of the institutions, as well as the rational management of the Institute's assets, while increasing its revenue, the creation of a scientific council with a strong presence of the Athens Academy, the approval of a rolling three-year budget and a scientific programme to enhance transparency by enhanced financial control. Unfortunately, what is happening today is happening in all the actions and initiatives of the government. Your strong desire for party control of every move within and outside Greece, both institutional and non-national, is not a national policy, but a national paranoia. Everything concerning within and outside the borders of Greece, institution or action, until our foreign policy is established, should unite us. But today you are bringing in a bill intended, not union, but division. It is intended to fade the Institute and turn it into a centre of interest which has nothing to do with it, nor with the intention of founders and donors, nor with the very important work it produces. The draft law you are proposing today strengthens the supervision of the Institute by the relevant Ministry of Education and Foreign Affairs, particularly the Foreign Affairs Departments. We are leading to an excessive concentration of powers of the respective Minister for Foreign Affairs with regard to persons who manage the main positions of the Institute and the Supervisory Committee. That is not the case, and that is not the case with democracy and transparency. The management and actions of the Institute are not strengthened, in order to make this a more effective means of promoting Byzantine and post-Byzantine culture and by extending the international image and cultural radiation of our country. Even now, at the very last moment, we are proposing to strengthen transparency and scientific documentation of the selection process of the President of the Institute, to find the golden incision for his head, taking into account both his scientific and administrative skills. Thus, the administrative malfunctions of the past will be eliminated and micro-party logic avoided. In simple terms, we suggest that it is not a political choice of the institution's administration. Ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies has all those guarantees to continue to be a point of reference and promotion of the Greek culture of our country not only in Italy, but also internationally, as long as we see it under a national perspective, to preserve and strengthen its invaluable heritage, to increase its prestige, allowing it to develop the work that can be done. But unfortunately, you insist on your position. Your rigidity and your logic are against us. That is why we are voting against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, too. Mr Mavrotas, Parliamentary Representative of the River, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Madam President. The bill for the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies, based in Venice, was to come in June last year. Some reactions were created by the academic scientific community and "frozen". At that time, it was created by Mr Phile - then Minister - and a committee from relevant scientists to study and propose. This committee met, studied, proposed, made a suggestion, which, in the end, was not taken into account in the key points of today's bill. And what are these key points? In the present form of the bill, the research character of the institute is undermined - not to say 'torped'. I'll then come to the legislative improvements, see what they fix. With surgical interventions in the purpose, structure, structure and selection criteria, a research institute is attempting to transform it into a centre of cultural diplomacy, with all that this entails. Why? Because the Venice Institute is a 'file' which, in the opinion of some, is luxurious for only researchers. So let's open it to friends. How's that gonna happen? Modifying the aims of the Institute, putting in and a little cultural diplomacy, relaxing the selection criteria, omissioning the scientific board from the management bodies, so that it is in danger of becoming a luxurious parking of friendly diplomats and not just. And if the government wants to deny us, let him accept the following moves that will restore the research character of the institute. The simple thing is to govern the Institute of Venice from what also applies to the research institutes of the country, and indeed to your law, Law No.4386/2016. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck! It is a phrase that the Prime Minister has been using more and more recently. Here's probably Venice, here's the fuck! And I will become a little more specific, perhaps repeating some things that our rapporteur has said. Starting from Article 1, you say that as far as the objectives are concerned, you have improved it and strengthened the research character with the legislative improvement you have submitted. Yes, sir! Let's take a look at this. I read from the original version of the bill, as tabled in plenary, Article 1(2): 'The main aims of the Institute are the promotion of Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies and research on issues relating to them'. I read again in Article 1(2), which reads: 'The purpose of the Institute is to promote Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies'. It's over. The investigation that existed in the original plan does not exist here. In all the others in this article you simply made the essential verbs and made the counting. The purpose of the Institute, as we have said, has insinuated 'the promotion of cultural diplomacy'. This makes us very suspicious of integrating these three words, which can play the role of a courier, turning the institute into a diplomatic institution instead of a research centre. Also, the last paragraph 4, which stipulates that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have general supervision and the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs will only - not even mention the research - confirms the displacement available from its initial mission. If the main mission of the Institute is, as the Secretary-General has assured us, the educational, educational and research dimensions, why enter the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as the main supervisor? What about the fortune? Let's go to Article 2. This is where the five-member supervisory committee, which had been designated unanimously with sufficient ambiguity, is determined. All friends were in the country! And now with the legislative improvement he wants and this correction why some paragraphs have been wrong - in fact, instead of people with proven knowledge, we put some first and second- and second-grade PCI members, as it came with the second legislative improvement, i.e. teachers and assistant teachers or researchers I and II, on the subject of which it is not mentioned to be relevant to Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies, but to be an all-student. Also, they will not be elected. They will be appointed by the Minister. Why should it not be done here, as in the third case of the PPC member, open invitation, but nominated directly by the Minister? The more open an institution is the more reliable to society. Here's one question: why was the Athens Academy excluded from the supervisory committee? There was before. Didn't we have her in custody? Does it not have research work, although entire research institutes belong to the Athens Academy? Have they done anything wrong and since the supervisory committee has become five-member, does not a member of the Athens Academy, a government independent? So you have no confidence in the institution. Let's go to Article 3, which has something to do with the institution's management bodies. There are only two institutions, as mentioned in the bill, the chairman and the management committee. First of all, in the institutes, there is no president, there is a director, but we overlook that. Secondly, is it possible that a research organisation should not have a scientific board and that, if that body is provided for, then not in its founding law? You testify after editing that "it is possible in the organization to provide for the establishment" and then another legislative with which you take off "maybe", in which case a scientific board is set up. When, gentlemen? Do we have universities here that after a decade have not created an organization and will build the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice so quickly that there will be a scientific board? Oh, no. There will simply be a temporary situation which will last for years and 'neutral to the temporary'. If, therefore, this is not explicitly provided for by the law as part of the administration, we have the President - in fact the Management Committee - and the Scientific Council, you refer it to the bells. Also, the Scientific Council is necessary, because, if we have a scientific project, who will be judged by the scholars, researchers, the research projects undertaken by the Institute? Or won't he take over? Or will these be judged by the president alone? And we come to Article 4 which refers to the President. And here is the scientific nature of the institute. You brought legal work in trying to fix it. And yet she was sloppy. Why? A three-member committee from LPI members will be recommended to the Supervisory Committee. In other words, a certain number of lecturers may be recommended for a professor. You corrected it afterwards and said they'd be primary and secondary. But why diverge from the scientific and academic norms which have the guarantees of the scientific and academic community? We must do so here, as the directors of research institutes are elected, with seven members of distinguished scientists, using the RESULTS system, so that there is at least a guarantee of relevance to the subject. Anyway, we're looking for a president for a research institute, not just a receptionist in a hotel, but a gifted and romantic location. I will not go into the rest. Our rapporteur has said so too. I'd like to say one last thing that impressed me. All research institutes, other than organisation, have rules of procedure that will determine, for example, which criteria are required for guests, researchers, scholars, etc. All research institutes have rules of procedure. This is not even the term in the entire Internal Regulation bill. In Articles 8 and 9, there are also several presidential decrees. We have said many times that the bills do not make sense if there are no deadlines and timetables for ministerial decisions and presidential decrees. Here again, there are no timetables. Also, the Scientific Office of the Parliament - other speakers have referred to this - has its objections to the constitutionality of Article 9(2) for authorising the administration, because it considers that the contents of this authorisation to be too unclear. To conclude, the general impression is that it seems an impatient bulimia of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to control the Institute and thus prevents the research and scientific character. If there was a mismanagement in the past, we could put the insurance systems on the table, but without undermining the scientific dimension of the Institute. You've made some moves to rehabilitate academics with legal improvements, but it's not enough. You are listening to our recommendations in order to ensure that the Institute is more independent and scientific in order not to force us to vote against it. As far as the amendments are concerned, I shall be a little at the Ministry of Education which extends the term of office of members of the Directory of Standards and Experimental Schools of the Ministry. The reason is, there's going to be a bill on it. The question to the Ministry of Education is when this bill will come for standards and experimental schools. For INEDIABIM, the post of CEO shall be abolished. Here is the question: Since there are the distinct roles of the Chairman of the Management Board and the CEO, who has the most executive powers, will he do this to the other agencies of the Ministry that have directors? So will it abolish them, or is this about ad hoc only INEDIABIM? Let's go to the surrounding atmosphere and close in a minute, Madam President. As Mr Loverd has said, the creation of the single body in the progressive middle-size area is getting more and more flesh and bone. In the polls it will now be measured as the "Switch Movement" and the effort being made coordinated by both Parliamentary Groups, Democratic Reconciliation and Potami, the big bet, therefore, is to be an attractive option for the progressive citizens, strengthening the positives and removing the negatives of each place. We also have today on the first day of electronic auctions, the third assessment that is running and we are waiting for the budget debate. At the same time, we also have a regular government retreat on the issue of Saudi Arabia's missiles, following the unanswered questions about the three hundred thousand missiles or the hundred thousand missiles, the official or informal representative not known by the Saudis, the detention of a Brigadier in the Pentagon, the secret or non-confidential documents. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In ten seconds' time, Madam President. For the Prime Minister can read from the Step of the House secretly classified documents, while parliamentarians cannot even submit relevant documents to the House. This is where we're confused. The only sure thing about this whole foggy situation is the Prime Minister's support for his co-pilot, the Minister of Defence, Mr. Kammenos. The Prime Minister knows, of course, that support for Mr Kammenos is like the rectangular. If she stops, she'll fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and four educational attendants from the Italian school "Julio Caesar" (Giulio Cesare) (Second Chamber). We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now there is the floor for seven minutes, SYRIZA MP, Mr. Vaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the "Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies" of Venice gave birth to the vision of a seven-aisled diplomat and poet, Marino Siguros. The act of the highest generosity and selflessness of the Greek community of Venice, which gave him all its property, including the Church of Agios Georgios, the Flaginian Library and the Congregation of the Flogian School, which is its headquarters, gave birth to it. He gave birth, if you like, to the need to find the institutional and research habitat of the management of historical memory, the registration act of birth, the international agreement between the Greek and Italian Government in 1949, which regulated the economic and legal status of the Institute. So he took the oldest Greek research institute abroad, a legal person governed by public law, charged with a research mission, which he performed and must continue to perform. Let me refer here to some of the elements that show and the multitude of research activities of the Institute by 2016: Eighty Three (83) self-regulatory studies - which include monographs, minutes of conferences and tributes - organised conferences, but also the unprecedented publication of the international magazine 'THESARICA' and much more. The Institute gave hundreds of researchers, Greek and foreign, to conduct research and became the valley of many doctoral thesis that promoted Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies. Consideration should also be given to the incalculable assimilation of scholars with the universities of Venice and Pandova, the Marcian Library, as well as the Venice State Archive, which provided rich food for research and, in particular, for research into the Venetian rule. The history of the Institute, unfortunately, was not just a story of the visibility and culture of humanitarian studies. It is a long history of deserts, accusations and clashes that sometimes sprung the honor and dignity of high calibre researchers, such as Manousa. The charges against Manousa Manousa were brought before the courts, but he himself fled at the expense of a huge injustice. Since the 1980s, political atrocities sometimes and inconsistent charges and persecution have threatened the institute by inactivating, maring and altering its nature. This does not mean, of course, that the Institute, like any research institution, any legal person governed by public law, remains unavoidable, is not subject to financial control and accountability and is not governed by a transparent system. That's self-evident. This bill provides for this and sets up institutional security margins. However, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental question that we have to answer today, if we want the Institute to restart, is about its nature and identity, which we are called upon to shield in law with the draft law that we are discussing. Let's not run out. I will agree with many speakers in vague terms, such as 'cultural visibility' or 'diplomacy', which have been produced - hearings weaken and overshadow the institution's academic mission. Let me put it differently and to avoid misunderstandings. The best cultural visibility or diplomacy is the strengthening and updating of the research dimension of the Institute, its pivotal maintenance in what the Aimos Panayotakis said: "In an advanced penitentiary of modern Greek culture". Ladies and gentlemen, after a fruitful consultation of the committees, after an extremely enlightening hearing of the bodies, the bill has included decisive changes in the improvements that are taking place in the above direction. I referred earlier to the need to update and modernise the Institute. When the institute was founded, at the beginning of the 1950s, the only researcher in our country was the Athens Academy. At this juncture, with the large number of research institutes, research inflation and the recent adoption of an institutional regime which governs them, the Institute should at some point also be in line with its research mission. The election of the president and, in addition to the scientific board, whose formation provides for the regulation to be put in place by means of a legislative improvement, must be subject to - and is subject to - the criteria of academic crisis and must not be changed into a bureaucratic process. We have had a lot of discussions on this. Scientists, researchers, academics are elected by homologists. They are not appointed. The passport, the membership card in the academic community, gives it the exercise of a free and public scientific crisis and not the respective political leadership of the ministries. Officialization and dependencies of each authority are the death of academic research. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, with its improvements, shields good administration: Management Committee, financial manager, annual request for action and so on. It also shields the research character of the institute, giving it an extroversion. It is a first step to safeguard the Institute as an academic institution. It is also trying to make an impediment to logic that has been afflicted by it, trying to degenerate it into a cultural centre of various kinds, in the center of a passing cosmic elite, in a diplomatic recreation resort. We don't want that. We want to infuse life, restore oxygen, transforming an institution that has become a field of crossfire - ministries, politicians, interests - for many decades now - into a research cell. And let us not allow a story that has written visions and songs, research passion and selflessness to become the time of a proclaimed death or another "Death in Venice", as colleagues, Mr Javaras and Mr Sevastakis said before, without the aesthetics of a Viscodi and a Thomas Man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u178	Mrs Rapti has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we want to achieve with this bill? What's the matter? Strengthen the existing structure, relieve it of its malfunctions, make it more effective and, at the same time, enable us finally to get rid of chronic addiction to create opaque, political leaders of ministries, with a lack of sovereignty and with the logic of the greatest possible political control. Is that progress? Instead of looking at how an institution, especially that of utility, can be shown, we can dictate how it will be restructured in a way that allows its absolute political control. For example, the organisation of the institution's structure is obvious that, at practical level, it requires the creation of a new appointed economic director, so that the supervision exercised is strengthened and not left to arbitrarily, to appointments of party friends and possible mismanagement. Can it not be understood that a person who guarantees the proper use of resources, donations, expenditure and general economic sizes of the Institute? We're all talking about transparency. Very good. So let us introduce the provision that the supervisory committee can produce an extraordinary financial audit of the Institute by the relevant department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where necessary, which is necessary before a new President takes office. We're talking about dignity. Very good. Therefore the members of the Institute, the members of the Supervisory Committee should be distinguished from their scientific qualifications, and these should be some, from the outset, with a view to upgrading the actions and work of the Institute. If the qualifications are not certain and members are involved in the supervisory committee, does the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, respectively, believe that the dimension of transparency is being served? We have also talked about the balance between the independent officials and the inclusion in the committee of a member from the Academy of Athens and not just the choice of a professor or researcher of any grade, but also of specialisation, with a simple decision of the Foreign Affairs and Education, Research and Religious Affairs Ministers. How simple could it be to symbolize a member of the country's leading spiritual institution, to be accepted? Speaking of transparency and scientific documentation, the committee proposing that the President of the Institute should not simply be a three-member committee guided by the ministries concerned, but rather a permanent supervisory committee. Ladies and gentlemen, both in the committee procedure and today, we have clearly pointed out what needs to be amended in order to have a substantial effect. Nothing has been accepted. Nothing was heard. We have proposed substantial modernisation, institutional upgrading and immunisation of the Institute, transparency, merit, effective control and full accountability. The government has not changed anything substantial in relation to the original text. Small legislative improvements that do not change the content, nor do they, of course, respond to the proposals we have made to improve the law. But whatever changed he was gonna let us know as late as he could. Once again, the government acts as if it were in Parliament alone, it denies the substance of the dialogue, thereby canceling the debate itself, not in the mood to improve a piece of legislation, but because the Rules of Procedure provide for it. Even the so-called change in the setting up of a Scientific Council was written with the intention of misleading, since it originally predicted that it could be foreseen and, therefore, it would never happen shortly before I learned that the Minister would change it and put it in the form of definition in the law. I hope, at least, that will be the case. Because anyone who really wants to set up a Scientific Council puts it in the law, ladies and gentlemen, not in the form of dubious and non-binding wordings. Our positions were clear and guided by having the institute its founding role and overcoming the malfunctions of the past. The government once again thought of micro-political. That is why I am voting against the draft law, and regretting at the same time, because I would expect a draft law on this subject to see that the government passes with the vote of the entire House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, too. Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, Member of the SYRIZA, will speak, and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ilioopoulos, will follow. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u181	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are not vacant. The draft laws are not judged, compared and assessed only or mainly with previous legal standards. They are mainly rated and evaluated if they meet the needs, I am claiming the urgent needs of the regulation and not just the reform, but the re-launching of the institution. Speaking of the Institute of Venice from far away, it is easy for someone to make designs on paper, theoretical searches, the interpretation of the history and reality of 2017. It obliges us in history to conceive, to come to an agreement, to come to an agreement. We can't discuss this in a vacancy. What's the reality? We will see it shortly after, as in my institutional capacity, as President of the Special Permanent Committee of the Hellenic Dispersionism, I had the luck of finding out for myself about a week ago in the Hellenic Orthodox Community of Venice. Mr Kumucasakos said, my dear colleague: "You cannot be corrected. You're shrimping.’ He called it a parody. However, it is clear that there is a common denominator, minimal, consensus from now on: there must be a body of control, rationalisation and a clear definition of who has the ultimate responsibility. The ultimate responsibility belongs to the Greek state and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has to manage a huge treasure. This treasure is not heterogeneously defined. It is stuck above the gate of St. George of the Greeks at Campo dei Greci, in the Square of the Greeks, in Rio dei Greci, in the Channel of the Greeks, in all those reminiscent of Ponte dei Greci, the Bridge of the Greeks. He writes on it: "Christ Sotiri and the holy witness Georgios, the disciples and the saints who descended, focused on the Greeks, as they had at the foot of God's religion, of the unions honored the sanctuary." "Greeks" and "religion" and at the end of "one of those who have been valued," he writes. Those who made it, those who followed at least have the responsibility to maintain it and not to interpret it or misinterpret it. Because it is clear that there we have a marriage of Hellenism and Orthodoxy, Gabriel Severo and Thomas Flaglin, who, if you like, combine with Bessarian the Bank, joining the Bank's Treasury with the Flaglinian Career. So today it is the undeniable need to return to normality, so that we can create a triple shape at the Museum of Byzantine Icons, at the Church of Saint George of the Greeks, in the Hellenic Community of Venice and in Metropolis, Italy and Melitis, which is necessary at this stage. Firstly, the restoration of fairness and order. Justice is already doing the right thing. It is not a reason for plausibility, but I do not want to condemn what I want to protect and where is the treasure and history. I don't want to be more detailed when I say we don't legislate vacantly. I'm explaining. In this particular day, in which I was lucky to be summoned, I was up and asked: "I would beg, apart from the respected representatives of the board, a scholar or a researcher," of the fifty-seven who had fifteen years ago, "to tell me his opinion about the course" and they explained to me that there is not one scholar or one director but only the director appointed by the Athens Academy - not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - who is paid a yearly wage of 74,000 euros. He is the director of a de facto dead, vacant institute. It does not exist, there is no scholarship, there is no researcher. So the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - and it assumes it fully with what it does - is to reopen the Institute and then highlight the treasure of the Byzantine icons, as a co-ordination pole then, after returning to normality, all the seats of Greek Language, Greek Culture abroad. The draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is catalytic, degrading, "life-friends" for the Institute and at the same time constitutes a restoration and restoration of legality. Neither a scholar nor a researcher nor a director appointed by the Athens Academy! Also, in the Church of St. George of the Greeks, to the gynecite, chestnuts, which have been shut down with butterfly for decades, have already been arrested. This wealth - which can't be taken from something and go away and which is why I talked about the final responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Greek state, as represented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - is to ensure the return to normality, i.e. to give the "friend of life". After two or three years of return to normality, we can discuss 4/5, 3/8, 1/7, scientific, academic work. In order for such an institution to be operational, however, it must first function. When it is not working, when it is essentially as a body, vacant, without scholars and without researchers, we are not entitled to design on paper. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I'm staying in the general condition. Well done, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Amanatidis, for talking about pathogens and dysfunctions and you have not entered into the contents of pathogens and dysfunctions. For example, we have works by Michael Damascus of the 16th century asymptomous, astonishing Byzantine value, which remain closed. There is a visitor the day and if, a tail should be made outside the visit of the ark of Byzantium, since Venice is essentially the historic capital of Apo-democratic Hellenism. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] I do not want to talk about the phrase of Mr Kumucaku's dear colleague. You have seen Mr Kumucako that the Minister has changed the 'power' and made it 'predicted'. He showed and gave examples of composition, goodwill, to go together, to put back to this government, to the next, not to the parties, but to the homeland, to what symbolizes the unity of Hellenism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Triantafylides, if you'd like, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u183	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your understanding. I do not want to speak, Mr Kumucaco, or about the collection of wasted money, secret accounts abroad, combating corruption, recovering $2.5 million allocated to the Caribbean Community Climate Change Centre in 2008. I don't want to get into these. I don't want to make a tour of scandals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u184	From the institute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u185	I withdraw this way of thinking, the micro-party, the micro-political. I would like to focus, I ask, please, on all my fellow Members, on whatever party they are, in whatever views they have, at last a few minutes to keep them. They belonged, owned and will continue to belong to the country. Those who built the Holy Church of St. George of the Greeks honored Hellenism, the national and Greek identity. That is what we need to do with the least, if you like, a sample of historical responsibility that needs to be distinguished from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and four educational sessions from the 4th Corinth High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilioopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. I was curious to hear SYRIZA's speaker speaking and saying fifteen times the words "Hellenicism", "national". Some strange change has changed SYRIZA MPs. From where they came out of sorrows and candidas when they heard the word "national", "Greece", "national", they use it now - and not only today - with great ease, without, of course, believing it, for the Venice Institute, for this only institution in Greece which is outside our country. We have the best to wish for. I say this cynically, because with all of you in here we have no confidence that even this institution - which owns sixty-five properties and can therefore self-finance itself - will be able to produce the research work it needs to produce, will be able in Venice to continue to produce culture, as it has done all these years. We respect, not only the history of the institute, but also the history that this institute must preserve throughout the centuries. Today, however, it is a 'black Wednesday'. After "Black Friday" we have come to a "Black Wednesday", as is characterised by property owners, because now with a click the left government grants the Greeks' homes to banks. The slogan we have heard for so many years from the lips of SYRIZA's citizens and MPs is reversed by the "no house in the hands of a banker", now becomes "all houses can be in the hands of bankers". It celebrates, of course, the pilgrims, the government-friendly ones, such as the "The editors' Journal", who also has a house on the cover, and speaks of a villa in Kifisia that is currently coming into sternity. Welcome to an auction, the villa in Kifisia, if the owner really owes. To explain what I mean 'good', there are two categories of those they owe. Those who voluntarily don't pay, who have a villa and don't pay and do well there and take the villa, only that money from these people shouldn't go to the banks, but return to the Greek people. However, there are also some of our fellow men who may have had jobs in the past years, who have both made some money and thought, instead of paying rent, to get a home for their first residence and to house their family. But then they have been unemployed or their wages have been dramatically reduced. They can't cover the loan and the bank's coming to get them home and sell it. There is this injustice here: let's go to the bank's side. It gives a loan of 17%, collects what it receives, then stop paying it, recapitalises the bank against the Greek people - the debts of the banks have not been made anywhere else in the world to bear the people, and this is done under the responsibility of all governments - and then takes the house in its possession, sells it and takes what remains of goodwill. On the other hand, we come to a family man who gets a loan, pays 17% interest, loses his job, loses the house, loses everything. This is justice in the Greek state. This is how you define the law for the Greek citizen. If he was a foreigner, you'd also provide him with a home, and you'd have handed him cash cards, you'd have given him everything. For the Greeks, however, there is a confiscation and sale of the first home. The banks, then, without any risk are the only ones won by all this game. In addition, there is a visit that was finally closed, that of Sultan Erdogan in our homeland after sixty-five years - and with the air of the Sultan - who will not only come to Athens, will visit celebratingly - such as Tsavosoglu - and Thrace. While the Prime Minister had gone there, he made a strange statement about Sharia. Our position, which you are well aware of, is, of course, the abolition of the Sharia, not from Greece, but from the whole of Europe. But it's very strange that Tsipra's statement and actually a gift to the sultan, because that's how he puts fake mufts into their game. So, in order to make it easier for Mr Tsipras not to react, we will say: 'Saria must of course be abolished, but it must be replaced by a law which says: 'After the disappearance of the sharia, all the cases of the minority, the Muslims', I repeat, and not of the Turkish, as Turkey wants, 'will fall within the Greek courts'. It's over and over and over and over and over here, and the fake moths and the fakes - imams will be charged with anticipating the principle. Watch out for a bit. I declare this today from the Step of Parliament. You'll bring it next week and I'll see you again. You're opening the Cape with what you're going to do. Take good care. There is this piece of legislation that you must definitely vote on, which must be the fakes - mufts and fakes - imams to think that they are committing a conflict of principle. Look out, we're calling it today. Don't open the ace of Hail or play with national issues. You've made another gift. Yesterday, so-called Kurds, nine people were arrested, he says, Kurdish origin. Another gift to the sultan. The gifts continue and will culminate, of course, in the sultan with his visit. You're just doing this to lure him to come. So you arrested nine Turks, former MIT agents and they're gone, Erdogan doesn't control them. He ordered you to arrest them and you did so in a few hours. We like Golden Dawn do not think there is Greek-Turkish friendship. We do not believe in Greek-Turkish friendship and, as we wrote on the front page of our newspaper today, we consider Erdogan unwanted. I say this not for any other reason, but because we have no other Step in the 'hazot' tracked by the Greeks. It's our only step. So since I found the opportunity, I'm going to make a summary of the news. So we also had a debate here in the House. I will not actually go into the matter, because the substance is and remains forty-five years ago: misery, arms dealers, corruption. This is what you talked about, and you were just trying to say who has the best gun dealers, who leaks more classified documents than the other, who has the best middlemen, "Papadopoulou", said one, "Sfakianakis," said the other. In the back of either SYRIZA or New Democracy, the process was continued to be covered by the discussion, with headlines, with articles either in favour of SYRIZA or in favour of the New Democracy. It is a game on the back of the Greek people, which - thank God it has taken away from you and has turned its back - unfortunately - on the entire political system. This is what you have achieved and continue to achieve, because you are shaking the Golden Dawn, the only voice in the political system that can stand a word contrary to yours and save the pretexts, finally save our country. In the channels, then, another subject is constantly being played: the visit of Mitsotakis to Mandra. Second time, he says, he's going costumes, uncooked without even knowing what's going on there. He talks to those who need to chat, takes some photos, says some words of the air, and this is projected by all means, like the Messiah going to Mandra. On the other hand, we have the Chief of Golden Dawn on the same day of destruction going there, with a huge step of competitor and friends of the Golden Dawn and helping him - there is photographic evidence - Mr. Michaeliakos in the effort of the inhabitants. Then, almost daily, to go there rivals, friends of the Golden Dawn, and to offer warm foods, breads, waters, clothes and everything else the residents needed there. Guess how many seconds this image played in the media in Greece: no picture, not a second. Spirtz declares proud of the anti - flooding works of his Government, proud of twenty - three dead. As the 'ESTIA' writes, and I lend it: 'I mean, Mr Spirtzi should have become Noah's flood to apologise or resign'. Duru heard them from the residents, because she's not just a poor one, she's an unexistent one, which all she's doing is to see how she's going to deal with the rubbish issue, so she can get any misery. According to her own words, she has taken the country back five hundred years and will take her another five hundred to a year and a half that she has left in the court of the prefecture. We are listening here today to those people who have sinked the country, those who have objectively the largest share of responsibility for the destruction of our country to come here one - one and say that they have changed their name. They're done, he says, "The Change Movement". “From now on you will tell us “the Change Movement”. A "Switch Movement" therefore uses these words in the early 1980s. They've taken us thirty years back, the pascocs. They just change their name to save their debts and think that the Greek people - so they believe - will forget what they have done so many years in our homeland, changing only one name. That's not gonna happen. No matter how many names you change, you will remain the same. The same cancer in Greek society will remain. We will be here to tell the truths, to call them with all the power of our soul and to invite the Greeks for just one thing: to wake up, to see what is really happening in the world, to close the hazelnuts that have been made for so many years, and to be able to really see the truth. And the truth today, at the dawn of 2018, has two words: Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Heliopoulou. Mr Emmanoulidis has the floor on the SYRIZA side for seven minutes. The following are Mr Davakis and Mr Mitafidis, and then the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis, and we continue with the list of speakers. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the previous speaker coming to the forefront of the previous speaker, I will say that I am in a difficult position to articulate a correspondent for what he has testified in conquering the entire political system. It is unfortunate indeed because I would like Mr Javarras to be here, who I always watch with great care for his torrent. What I would say is the phrase of Pirantlo: 'So is it, if you think so'. Confidence is a basic condition for well-meaning dialogue, except that the reality of Mr. Javarra's coins cannot be related, because if they talk about 'Death in Venice', we are talking about the acidification of an old and asthmatic institution by the oligopoly and the indifference of the state for the past 50 years - and above - of its operation. We come to this point, to say that today we are discussing a bill of particular importance, which concerns the research presence of our country abroad, because the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies is the only research institution that our country has abroad, while this institution has a historical presence and a situation that is emblematic for Hellenism. Before assessing the draft legislation under discussion, we must take into account its particular historical importance. Following a cultural agreement between Greece and Italy, the Institute was founded in 1951 to promote research into the Venetian Greek areas and evaluate and exploit Venice's state archives. It should also be noted that the Hellenic Community of Venice donated a large amount of real estate to the foundation, which includes the archive of the Hellenic Republic of Venice, the Flanders House in which the Institute is hosted, as well as other movable and immovable relics of special, significant value. I am referring to the above, to stress that it is not an expression of microbialism if we claim that the Institute should have a global radiation, it is sufficient to bear in mind that apart from its important history - which I have just mentioned - Byzantine Studies in recent decades have been a field of scientific research with an exceptional global interest in the academic community in the field of Humanities. So we are talking today about a Greek institution abroad, whose thematic targeting includes Byzantine and post-Byzantine time. This in itself can be a field for spiritual and scientific fermentation on a global scale. However, we have to admit that, despite the very important history and the institution's property, it has recently featured an old institute. This was perhaps because of the state’s lack of interest in its operation and the need to gain its spiritual and cultural wealth. That is why this draft law comes to give new dynamics to the institute, introducing reforms and changes that are fully compatible with both its history and its role as it can and must play because of its well-known potential. So, as presented to us by the rapporteur, the draft law broadens the aims of the Institute and highlights the philosophical, historical and broader issues of Greek culture, and introduces changes to the structure and functioning in order to make its administration more operational and effective. The same is true of the changes in the management committee and its staff in order to deal with problems and adequate pathogens. We must also say that the bill we are discussing today is the result of a particularly interesting process of substantive dialogue that preceded the meetings of the committees. The committee has shown how, within our responsibility, we can produce legislative work that improves a bill that is initially tabled with apparent weaknesses, not necessarily deliberately. It is true that by reading the first article of the draft law, as originally tabled to our committee, I have found - as I had said - a contradiction, not a benevolent one, but a manifest one. While quantitatively and mainly thematically it referred to the aims of the Institute which are of an educational, educational and research character, it also stated explicitly that the Institute is subject to the general supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with regard to its educational and educational activity in the supervision of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. In other words, there was a de facto confession of acceptance of the Primus interpares of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This contradiction was initially healed by the debate which followed, honouring the parliamentary procedure. Listening to the Minister, we see that through the expression of reflection and identification of the weaknesses of the bill in its original form, we have gone to "therapy" of important elements in order to become a functional bill, which, through its regulations and legislative improvements, ensures both its essential research character and the sound financial management of the institution. What I have to point out, by closing down, is that the draft law we are discussing enables the Venice Foundation to gain its emblem but, above all, its place in the global spiritual and scientific context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Emmanuelides. Mr Davakis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, today from this step I will not speak. What I have to say in the procedure of the committee responsible, but unfortunately I have, like many colleagues, spoken to those who are not listening. Angelos Delivorrias will speak, recently in his note in the newspaper "KATHMERINI" writes: "Because for the third consecutive time the same atrocious history of the supposed upgrading, exploitation, that is, the facilities of the Venice Institute for unnecessarily political purposes, I had hoped that the offer of the chosen colleagues who have so far protected the scientific and internationally recognized level of the Institute would have been appreciated as much as the protection of their own prestige from the misery of a underground runway would have been necessary." He will speak, ladies and gentlemen, Michael Tiberius, the Professor of Classical Archaeology of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, which states: "I recall that this is the only state research centre that operates outside the Greek territory and that the Greek taxpayer is not charged with a single euro, since he has a guaranteed financial capacity, which is due to the former Greek community of Venice, which has provided him with a brilliant home and transferred to him its great property under certain conditions, of course, such as the fulfilment of the objectives of his establishment." Tiberius continues: "The risk of our dissolutionary partition being put into the institute is before the gates, much more so since it will no longer be necessary for its chairman to be a scientist of recognized value, a specialist, as the law originally said, in Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies, as was the case until now, but just a university of any grade or research centre with relevant objects to the purpose of the institute, which, not least, are expanded. The Institute, apart from the promotion of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies, is also responsible for promoting our cultural diplomacy!” "The Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies", continues Tiberius, "with its potential president, notwithstanding the above studies, is sentenced to slow death. Our only research centre in the foreign and even in a city where Hellenism grew, playing an important role in the transmission of Greek culture to the West, decommissions. I would remind you that sometimes the rulers have shown opposition - or ignorance - to primary research. “In 1982 the then leadership of the Ministry of Culture, apparently fascinated by the magic of the gondolier city, had dreamed of the conversion of this research institute with the envious “private” in a cultural center. Fortunately, that effort stayed in the void. "The Directors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on account of responsibility," Tiberius continues, "can only be aware of the action in our country of many foreign research institutions. But have they bothered to know whether, for the selection of their address and in general for their operation, the main reason for their country's foreign ministry has it? “This is not the first time the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has tried to manipulate the Institute of Venice. In 1982, on the occasion of again complaints about mismanagement of his administration, he moved actively, with a view to his full control. The institute was afflicted, inactivated for seven years. The then director and his staff were dragged to the courts until they were finally vindicated on a solemn basis, legally and morally. “ Unfortunately, that unfortunate episode did not seem to have taken care of the people of the Ministry. Venice, the famous city of the Dogs, resents them. "The Foreign Ministry's will to promote cultural diplomacy is respected. To this end, I say to you now, Minister, "to ask for the inclusion of the services of the Foundation of Greek Culture, which was set up for similar purposes and which is currently under the “fetter” of the weak Ministry of Culture. When will the self-evident in our country be reaped?' I close with Panagiotis Vokotopoulos, Emeritus Professor of the University of Athens Philosophy School, who says: “The pluralist, within 30 years, attempt to salt the Institute, reminds me of an inscription that I had read many years ago in Kalopoula, the faucet outside the monastery of Caesarian, which had obviously suffered vandalism: “Romie, if you can’t make, at least not spoil”. "Instead of enthusiastically persevering the inactivation of the only Greek research centre abroad, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could channel its activity to other areas, such as repatriation, on the basis of international conditions, of hundreds of manuscripts, objects of metalworking and other relics that Bulgarians stole from Eastern Macedonia a century ago. »The promotion of the activity of the Hellenic Foundation for Culture, from which we have been so anticipated and whose existence the periodic change of the board of directors according to party balances, or the establishment of a Greek scientific institute in Rome, where the most unlikely countries are represented, are represented, while Greece is absent. The establishment of a Greek Institute in Rome was foreseen by the Treaty of Peace with Italy and was not carried out by Greek fault. "Always, I remember a great diplomat, the late Ambassador Ioannis Kolikoulopoulos, telling me that the institute was not established because of the lack of independence of the center." That's our country. Vokotopoulos continues: "Let the Ministry of Foreign Affairs promote these chronological national issues and let the Institute of Venice quietly do its job, with which he has become internationally renowned." Ladies and gentlemen, while we are legislating at the moment, drawing up and creating problems in the unique research cultural institution that has this afflicted country abroad, I believe that we are being watched by the sloppy shadows of its first director, Sofia Antonydou, the great Manousa Manousa, the essential founder of the institute, Nikolaos Panayotakis, Constantine Amandos, Anastasios Orlando, Dionysios Zakynthos, Manolis Hadjidakis, Angelos Vrachos, George Mitsopoulos, and today's academics, today's generation of the Athens Academy, as well as Mr. We are being watched for what we are doing and feel very bitter and refreshed, because they have spent their lives, gave the circus the best they had, in front of an opportunism, a sterile feasibility from which certain circles of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who have put the Venice Institute in the middle of years and have put the House to legislate on the basis of party ideology coordinates. I think even at the last minute you should see it. You know I come from an area where I've got Mystra. I would therefore say that instead of the Minister of Education, who is now absent - it should be all the time here, it is worth wondering how the Minister of Education is absent from this legislature - to bend carefully at the Institute of Byzantine Studies in Mystras, which has been founded for ten years and left to his fate, he looks at destroying the oldest and largest institution we have abroad. I would like to believe - I hope and I am sure, I would say - that the New Democracy will see the way it should, when that time comes, and it will create the conditions that you are now taking away with your party idealism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Mr. Mitafidis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, the Accuracy of Conspiracy recently, due to the ideological nakedness that distinguishes it, reproduces and treats conspiracy theories. "It conspires", therefore, that the government destroys this brilliant institution, which is the only institution of Greek culture outwards, interfering with its scientific work. But reports from eyewitnesses are that this institution is dead. You didn't tell us why he's been dead all these years. I wished to have for a while at the School of Philosophy of Thessaloniki - Mr Davaki, you mentioned earlier - and Manousa Manousaka Professor and Michael Tiberius as a student for as long as, at least, I was a student. They are familiar with me, and I very much appreciate their opinion. I want to read you an excerpt from the exhibition of the President of the Hellenic Orthodox Community of Venice, Dimitris Zafiropoulou. Its letter to the netpress.gr website: "We also ask for the coverage of all the positions provided by the Greek Institute with people who know Italian language and have what the law defines and the immediate removal of those who have been serving years in the institution, without even having formal qualifications. Any inertia related to the financial and accounting service of the institution shall have specific responsibility. To date, there is no report of the institution for 2016, since there are no approved quarterly accounts for 2016. Therefore, there can be no budget of the institution for 2017 either. This means that whoever has the responsibility for carrying out this task has not performed and has not carried out the tasks assigned to him.’; So that's what we're trying to do with the bill and there's no reason to cast such heavy shadows and charge the government with purpose. We are therefore trying, as a government responsible, to deal with its operational, financial problems, to have transparency. I heard they're still around the twenty cases in connection with the management of the institution. Of course, we do not intend to replace researchers and scientists with administrative staff, even our preference, as you say. We simply want to strengthen its role. At the same time, however, we want to house the institution, which - as you can see - is at the moment unable to function. I'm going to close up by saying something that makes timeliness. Firstly, I welcome the decision - which I learned yesterday, even though it is a holiday - to revise the agreement with Saudi Arabia on the sale of military material, which, according to the complaints made by Amnesty International, is being used to eliminate civilians in Yemen. Look at something, when we were opposition, we did not vote - as you know - on defence expenditure, because they were linked to NATO's military operations and pursuits. We became government, obviously, and we have the responsibility of the country. We are voting for defensive expenditure and not for arms dealers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u194	NATO has come to the Aegean now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u195	NATO is in the Aegean for other reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u196	It's always for some reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u197	Always for a few reasons. Suffice to what I told you. I mean something else. There was a shot by Mr. Kalafatis against the Mayor of Thessaloniki. Our political views do not coincide with the mayor. But on some issues I think I should support him. I have spent many years of municipal councillor at the Municipality of Thessaloniki and I want to tell you that this city has suffered from the nationalist hysteria with the flawless memory of "Saint Trinity", as we called it in Thessaloniki. Now, of course, there's only metropolitan Anthony left. It was the flawless memory of the Mayor of Papageoropoulos - whose regrettably we continue to pay theft, with the retention of the municipality's subsidies - and also the well-known Panagiotis Psomadis. So this city takes steps to restore its history. She celebrates her release from the Nazis by decision of our own government. It highlights the fighters of the period of dictatorship and its mayor participates - yes! - in the effort that we are making at the moment with the new government in Skopje, which shows signs of writing that it wants to get rid of the Vukhala Syndrome, to say it differently. Is that bad? If you are nostalgic about the period of this extreme nationalist policy, during the Samara period, where careers have been built and a party has been created, and then the possibility of having a compromise on the name of the Peneiro package has been blocked, we are not going to follow you on this road. We will therefore support all efforts. Moreover, "city diplomacy" is within the obligations of the elected municipal authorities themselves and not to have a reasonable porcupine and to face the second city of the country, Thessaloniki, as the fortnight of the "from the north". It's over. These belong to the age of the Cold War. Is that what you don't? We need to get this over with, and that's what our government will do. Take the decision!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Mitafidis. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Xydakis has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that today we will complete the legislation for the Venice Institute. We have said a number of things to the committees from the very beginning and thankfully with the assistance of many Greek scientists and intellectuals, who helped the work of the House in committee, a picture has begun to be formed, which was not even before yesterday, when a first draft law appeared, not even a month and a half ago, which appeared in this bill. We have a picture of quite good in the background and it appeared from the very informative and conscious speeches of colleagues here at the Step of the House, and from Mr Venizelos and from Mrs Vakis and other speakers that I should not blame anyone. We understand what we are talking about and what we are legislating about. We understand, in other words, that it is an institution which has produced a work, built a tradition, and which has mainly been based on the personalities and self-determination of great spiritual men, for whom we have only respect and obligation to continue their work and their example, from those who inspired it to Sofia Antoniadis, who started it, Manoso Manousaka, who gave the scientific depth and character, Nikolaos Panayotakis, the memorable large Byzantine philosopher, Chryssas Maltese, who was there a few years ago and exploited the property and collections of the museum. I have the luck and privilege to have visited the Institute many times, to have been hosted there as a journalist, to have participated in conferences, to have studied and illustrate the Church of Agios Georgios, one - one - of all the icons in the museum, to have toured me in the archaeological collections and manuscripts, to have seen and decided with the scholars and teachers who have graduated from there. There's been a big job, serious work. It's a mistake to estimate that they weren't extroverted. Most announcements in both the treasures and magazines, publications and conferences attended were in Italian, French and English, and little in Greek. When we don't know, don't talk, study. It's all published, all deposited in public libraries, all there is on the site, and we can learn. So in memory of these people, whose young people were deeply progressive and left-wing, and who gave content to the institutions of the Greek state, to the scientific institutions, we must legislate with responsibility and knowledge. The bill didn't start as it should. We must say that and the Minister present, Mr Amanatidis, also recognised it. It has been done, we have listened to the operators and I think that to a very large extent all the comments have been incorporated. In other words, on the crucial issue, in ensuring the spiritual selfishness of this research and spiritual institution, we have taken steps. The president is proposed by a diligent body of scientists, a three-member committee of rapporteurs, and it goes up to supervisory and ministers to nominate. There are all the scientific differences there, and also the selection of scholars with the recent improvements made by the Minister is chosen by the president with the help of a three-member scientific board, in which I would ask the Minister to complement the fact that this scientific board will be made up of members of the I and II grades, just like the three-member selection board. Let everything be clear. We must leave nothing to chance, and as it will be. I will also ask the Minister, within the provisions of the minimum requirements of the law, to give a time horizon for the drafting and filing of the agency, because with the experience we have from the Greek administration, I very much fear - and we must avoid it - that the institution will remain without an organisation for a long time and be mismanaged only by the supervisory board, without an establishment plan, without an internal regulation. We should - our own administrative care is within the law, of course we do not draw up an organisation - give a time horizon and a commitment. We have supervised bodies of the Greek administration, which are five, seven and eleven years after their establishment, going without organisations. We must not legislate again in the same way. I have seen a composite attitude from the standpoint of anti-population, and it has made me a good impression and the spirit and essence of Mr Venizelos' speech, who is aware of the institution of autopsy. I, as a journalist, have been with him at the foundation in extroverted events, in high cultural concerts and in collaboration with the most distinguished Venice institutions. Mr Venizelos made a proposal to give further prestige to the President's choice. I think that in this spirit many people in the committee's work and many colleagues also agreed with SYRIZA. I would therefore ask the Minister to bear in mind this very synthetic and peaceful request from Mr Venizelos and to see whether he could incorporate it. As I would see a thought on behalf of the Minister, who has shown a spirit of composition and inclusion of the many comments tabled, the observation by the Potami Parliamentary Group, that the fifth member of the Supervisory Committee, jointly appointed by the two Ministers, should have been an ex ante officio to represent the leading intellectual institutions, related to the cognitive fields and objectives of the Foundation. It's the Academy. There is the National Research Foundation. This has been heard within the committee's procedures. They are reasonable and they ensure precisely this validity of the institution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u200	The delivery.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u201	Not just the tradition. In my opinion, they ensure the spiritual selfishness, the authority and authority of the chosen person. The person of the Chairperson, who is essentially a scientific director, assisted by an economic person, with his or her authority, with the greatest possible acceptance and consent to his or her person and with the encouragement and consent of the all-scientific community sending him to Venice, thus ensuring continuity. Is she gonna sit down for five years, ten years? He'll leave his seal. This seal was left by Manusacas, this Panayotakis, this Maltese. Every five years, six years, eight years, as each man sits, marks a time and leaves a work. Since, therefore, there is a mood from all the branches and the wings of the House to lead to composition, and since many steps have been taken on the part of the Minister, which has incorporated the rich reflection that has been put forward, these are small steps, and only to enrichment, fixing, strengthening the glow and the duration to which they will draw together. I think we are in a position and the Minister will listen to us and incorporate them. I am pleased that in this relatively short process this bill was improved and strengthened. Spiritual selfishness was assured. There's diagrams. It's not a felony. The criticism of the Step here is also unfair or rather wrong, because it refers to a precedent for the legislation. The legislation has changed to the best and essentially. We have duplicates and filters and safeguards. With a few things that all the parties here have put forward in a very peaceful spirit, if the Minister moves forward, I think we will be in a final form of the legislation, for which at least we will feel safe before the delivery of tradition and before the coming generations of scientists and scholars. I hope that the Minister will listen to them, note them very carefully and close much better than we have started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u202	Thank you to Mr. Xydakis and to the economy in time. Come on, Mr. Dousina, you have the floor for seven minutes. From what we have been informed, other parliamentary representatives will not follow. We're done with Mr. Xydakis. There are eight speakers left, the Minister and the secondary ones, although they wish the rapporteurs to give a second answer. Well, by 17.15 hours, I think we'll be done if the time is up. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. When last summer, for the first time, government officials were asked to discuss the plans at the time for the reform of the institution's legislative framework, I must say that it made me a terrible impression that, from then on, the institution belongs either to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or to the Ministry of Education or, at best, to both. So I am going to speak as a university, as a researcher and as someone who has had the enormous honour for ten years to be the director of one of the largest humanities institutions in Britain, the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities. I am speaking at the moment, in particular to my colleagues, Mrs Avdela, Mr Hatzyesev, but also to Mrs Arveler, Mr Tiberios and Mr Delivorria, who have written articles in the last few days around this bill of the Ministry. Well, from last summer until now, a huge effort has been made by many of us SYRIZA's universities, from Mrs. Vaki, from Mrs. Anagnastopoulou, from Mr. Sevastakis. We were interested in highlighting the academic and research character of this institute. That's why I'm saying I'm talking today from this point of view. Because the bill that we have before us today has nothing to do with either last year or with the original one we have seen this year. Therefore, by using the previous bill to the criticisms that are being made at the moment - what we have today and as amended and after today's legislative improvements - it is like talking about a virtual reality. I should add, of course, that there have also been articles that are malicious, that come from a specific commentator, whose name has been mentioned before, who is characterized by jealousy, resentment and what Nietzsche calls'ressentiment', this attack on anyone who believes that he disagrees with him and tries to achieve something. And these kinds of attacks, ad hominem and ad feminam, which have been used recently in such an acute way against politicians and intellectuals, to tell us that Vaki and Sevastakis and Anagnostopoulos and the Dozenas make this bill to do "data" in Venice, to go there our party executives, to do "butva" in Venice. Let us think a little better about a debate, which I would say, as President of the Standing Committee on Defence and Foreign Policy, that it was one of the best I have seen in this House and from the point of view of discussion with Mr Kumucasco and Mr Davakis. We have heard their arguments, but in particular we have heard the arguments of our fellow Members, who came from various bodies and universities and said their views. If you see the previous bill and what we have now, it's almost completely different. If there was a problem, it was probably a problem of timing, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not announce the new bill, essentially these changes that had been agreed earlier, so that we do not have this virtual reality we are accused of, that we are going to make a party and "data" of SYRIZA or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or I don't know who else. Ladies and gentlemen, after the orchestra of the last few days - I think the House, by the way, sometimes has to have a pedagogical character - I shall refer very briefly to research. What does it mean to do research? What are the values of research? It is something that colleagues from both our space and other places obviously agree. So I'll talk about three principles. The first principle is the office of asylum. Research is based on the absolute freedom of knowledge, on the cultivation of criticism and questioning. Research asks questions about everything, even about the value of truth itself. The thought of research must be unconditional, without any conditions. It's unconditional. Its only condition is to protect it from external threats and retaliation. Secondly, the research that we are all doing has intrinsic rather than tooling value. We are not just investigating to contribute to the economy, but to learn to think, to judge, to deepen self and others' understanding. Thirdly, the main purpose is to cultivate character, Bildung, which the Germans say, by deepening the basic concepts and values of our object. The understanding of Homer and Dante, pictograms and patriology is as valuable as the cultivation of robotics and nanotechnology. As a political animal we humans breathe words, concepts and values. A society that has forgotten its history, which has degraded its values, does not understand the importance of justice, the adventure of ideas, the ransom power of beautiful and transcendent. That's the research job. This bill enters into a number of other laws, bills and combinations around education and research. It is possible that many colleagues do not know that. Younger colleagues, 20-year-olds and 30-year-olds of the universities know that. Over the last two years, this government has made a thousand five hundred scholarships for doctoral and postdoctoral. He's currently preparing another thousand five hundred scholarships. And while the percentage of research funds was 0.67% in 2011, today is 0.99%. In that sense, we enter. And in that sense I was talking to my colleagues and young academics, who see for the first time a government that has economic difficulties - we know all that - to be determined to give money so that the new generation can be built that will replace our generation of universities, theorists, scientists and researchers, which is the biggest capital of our country. So if we look at it in this context that our work is research, the autonomy of research, it would be possible to make the bill slightly better. However, with the difficulties that Mr Triantafylides has mentioned to us so thoroughly and which are therefore necessary for the participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I think it is possible that we might have the best. We must always think - and I say this again to colleagues who wrote about this bill things that have nothing to do with its reality - that, without this kind of absolute integration into academicity, the importance of research and research autonomy, our country cannot go forward. I think we did it to a very large extent. At some point, later, it can be better, but we fought, and I'm not willing to hear from anyone that we made dazzles and party states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Doussina. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, forty-three students and students and three teachers from the 1st General School of Agrinio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Nikolaos Friends of SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a subject that is not very well known to the general public today, but is important. This is the Venice Foundation and the importance of which several colleagues earlier, especially some of them, historians, researchers, social scientists, have been mentioned in detail. Obviously, this is a serious scientific, research reserve of about half a century, a research structure which has glowed considerable personalities. I believe that we should not erase this story in view of the beginning of history since we are in this Chamber or in other points. There are problems, but these problems are also about changing times. It is about the ageing of the community's population there, about the economic hardship that exists in the Greek State, about the maladministration that exists in the Greek State and with a concept of not party peculiarisation of various points, but a poorly understood syndicate peculiarity on the part of certain agencies of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. All this, however, let us forget about it at the moment, because there is a spirit of consensus here today. I, too, distinguished from the speeches by colleagues from all the positive suggestions which Mr Xydakis, the Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA, summarized some of the particulars of Mr Dousinas and others later, such as Mrs Vakis. I have heard positive proposals from both the JRC and the POTAMI from both the PASOK and the New Democracy. Minister, you have a unique opportunity to compose by listening to the proposals of the Chamber, because otherwise an issue of minor importance to the general public, but of significant symbolic importance to the issue of Greek scientific research abroad, will let it be damaged through brutal controversy. I would like to refer to this very briefly. When I was Minister of Education there was an initiative from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to change the law governing the operation of the Venice Foundation. I didn't do the smart guy. I'm not a university, I'm not a researcher, much more an ambassador. I have set up a committee, chaired by the historic professor, Mr Hatzyosov, with the participation of selected and approved scientists, academics and others, as well as the participation of the Athens Academy and the National Research Foundation, i.e. bodies concerned with the operation of the Foundation. This committee has come up with a conclusion, which was well known since last year. It has not been taken into consideration by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I don't want to blame anyone. I'm just recording a reality. At the hearing of the bodies that took place in the committee during the debate of the bill, all the bodies came, Mr. Hadjisov came and there was a common denominator of the bodies: The period of extraordinary reality, which was reasonable to exist after the war at a time when there was no organized postgraduate and research system in Greece, is over. And now, since you, your government, are telling us that they voted for a law on research, regardless of whether some - we, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government voted for a law on research - why do you exclude this research centre from this law? Why do you not allow this institution to come to normality, which is the regularity of Greek legislation? It's a serious argument. I didn't hear any answers. If we accept that there are certain peculiarities, because the foundation is in Venice, they can be dealt with. However, the basis has to do with the following issues: It's about direction. The Foundation must not be a service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but a self-sustaining research centre, which has its own resources, does not bear any burden on the Greek State. This, in my opinion, presupposes the following things: firstly, academic establishment and operation of the institution. In other words, the way in which the director of the institution is elected, which operates postgraduate students and researchers, must comply with the merits of the country's research institutions and not with other types of procedures. This is only ensured if the body from which the director, who is the key person of the institution, is an academic body and not a body of service actors or even a mixed body. He took a small step in this piece of legislation. Secondly, the Foundation must open up to this academic function in Europe's academic and research environments, particularly in northern Italy. We don't have an institution that refers to the past and ends sleeping on laurels of the past. It must be an institution that looks ahead and exploits its research and historical wealth, to be ahead, the pioneering of the corresponding research in northern Italy. This also means a research centre and not a patent of cultural diplomacy. Thirdly, if the institution has this academic - research character, it will also make use of additional resources from European research funds, otherwise it will not go in there. Fourthly, there is obviously a need for separation and special support for financial management. I agree that there is a management issue, since this institution has been abandoned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for so many years. There aren't any employees. Now he wants to take the initiative? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course we need special staff, which can be found through procedures of merit. Others, therefore, the management, which we must ensure further the subject of his research and academic character. I referred earlier to the issue of the necessary consensus. I believe that there can be consensus from the debate and from the intention that the Minister can express. I've heard some positive steps. I would like to say, however, that it is not possible to debate the Venice Foundation by discrediting the work of this institution. Listen, I don't belong to those who think the Athens Academy is the aftermath of the scientific community in Greece. He's got worthy scientists, all right. Why should it be excluded from its participation in the election of the scientific director? What for? Why exclude the National Research Foundation, the corresponding scientific institute? Why should the opinion of the University Departments of Byzantine Studies and Historical Studies not be heard throughout Greece, who came to committee in this House and gave us concrete proposals? So if Philis as Minister, or Kotzias as Minister, or Gavroglou as Minister are today the guarantors of the operation, who thinks that can last forever? Institutions we want!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I am sorry, I would like you to understand for a moment more. My view, therefore, is that there must be regularity in the functioning of the institution. And I would stress that the initiative to set up a panel of experts for the Foundation is a sign of a good legislature procedure and not to bring about changes between us at the last minute that no one understands in the law. I have heard Mr Venizelos about the issues he wanted to say, beyond Venice's economic policy. I'm sorry, but every one of us gives us another picture of his own responsibility. In 2014, the budget was targeting 1.5% for primary surpluses and official data published days ago said it caught only 0.3%, i.e. 2 billion less than the target. I would also remind you that you have bided, Mr Venizelos, the e-mail Hardouvelis, which was not the agreement of the creditors - they were asking for more of the creditors - but they were your pious desires and for there to be agreement with the creditors, there should be so many other measures than the e-mail Hardouvelis said. The 2014 budget was therefore derailed. That was also confirmed by Symble, saying that Mr Samaras asked him to have a small suspension, a short break for political reasons in the implementation of the 2014 budget. He was derailed. The IMF report breaks down claims that we were supposedly just before leaving the memorial on a credit line. Finally, decide what numbers the PSI has, because on 19-7-2015 at "Kathimerini" you tell us that the nominal debt reduction was EUR 126 billion with the PSI, on 8-12-2016 on your Facebook post you talked about 106 billion euros and the Bank of Greece's document tells us the truth, that only EUR 51.2 billion is the profit from the PSI, since there was a recapitalisation of banks, new loans and others. Does it matter to talk about the past? Of course, because it demonstrates the path from 2015 onwards, which is a path of great difficulty - we do not hide it - with great compromises and blackmail - we do not hide it - but a course with truth. And the truth is that we are now going to get out of the problem of loan programmes to a large extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mrs Anagnostopoulos Athanasia has the floor from SYRIZA. Here comes Mr. Tassoulus and Mrs. Kefaliannis, to close the procedure with Mrs. Lebanon, Mr. Mumulides and Mr. Styl. Of course, there are secondaryities, as the Minister has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u209	They are also the rapporteurs for secondary reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u210	And the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u211	We have said that those wishing will be seconded. Here, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that an issue such as that of the Venice Institute is being discussed for the first time in the Greek Parliament is already very important. Since its inception to date, no such issue has been raised in the House. As Mr Dousina said, the House has a pedagogical character. Most people, but also MPs, men and women, even my party, my parliamentary group, did not know what this institute was. It is a good thing, therefore, that we have this opportunity to discuss, to know what this institute is and why it is so important. A lot has been said. I'll stand in two, three. Firstly, this institute is not only the oldest institute we have abroad, but it is the oldest research institution for historical studies and the only one we have. The importance of history and why this Venice community understood it is very important. I would also like to remind you that in Venice - the once-a-timely Venetian Republic - there is a huge archiving material. Like any strong democracy - with or without introductorys - such as any strong state structure, like Venice, kept a record of everything. So the importance of this institute for history research is very great. But there's something else. This institute is located next to the Martian Library. We need to know that the man who translated the culture of antiquity into the West, as he had been processed by Byzantium, was Bessarion with the four hundred eighty codes in the Greek and two hundred fifty in the Latin in the Markian Library. The Institute, that is, is at the heart of the West account of Renaissance. In this account this Greek world then had a huge and decisive contribution. What do we care about today? Not only should we look at this huge material that exists in the Martian Library, but also in Venice's archives, but also how this research will contribute very much to modern history studies and research. We do not care, that is, only as a monument. Mr. Dousina explained them very well for the investigation and I will destroy them if I come back. What we are seeing is the enormous research importance of the Venice Institute. The Greek state did not succeed after the establishment of the Institute, when there was still no legislation, there were no research centres, there was nothing but the Athens Academy to build an institutional framework that would define the operation of this institute. Today, of course, we have legislation. The Greek state did not succeed in building a corresponding French Archaeological School, whose extroversion and prestige is not due to its actions either in cultural diplomacy or in anything like that. It is due to the conferences and, above all, to these great 'Bulletin de Correspondance Hellenique', in which we have incredible thousands of publications. Such an institution has also tried to make important personalities to which many and many of you have referred, such as Manousakas, Panayotakis and others, with the famous magazine "THISARILYMS" of the Institute itself. I wanted to say - and Nikos Philis and Nikos Xydakis and Mrs Vaki and all - that today we have a law on the investigation that our government brought down last year. We have both the Athens Academy and the National Research Foundation. We have where to press, even if the institute, its function and its contribution are not so well known. I think the legislation finally reached in plenary today differs greatly from the first - first - that we had to work on the committees and go in the right direction. However, I would like to stress that we in this House and this government must help to shield the research character of this institute, so the way in which the Director - President, say - is elected is of great importance. I was pleased to see the style - apart from some exceptions - of all colleagues, men and women, from the democratic groups in this House, but also the effort to reach consensus. I believe that Mr Xydakis has well codified an important step in the direction of safeguarding the research character. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry. I will only need a second, Mr President. Minister, you can take this into account and show that this House is, for the first time, institutionalised and has the responsibility of building an institution which is important research for foreign affairs. One last word about the organization. I am very pleased that the Minister has agreed to the establishment of the agency. I would like, Minister, here - because another colleague has said so, because the agencies are too many times over - to make a commitment that within three months of the adoption of the law there will be an organisation which will also be provided for the establishment of the Scientific Council. There can be no research establishment without having a scientific board next to it. In other words, organic law must also provide for the tools for the promotion of its research work and of an intact nature. I don't hear all those voices that the ministry wanted to do it for each other and for each other. He's taking the first step. Are you sure you want to say? Let's say it. It is, however, taking the first step towards the establishment of such a research institution. I would therefore also like to see a scientific board set up for another reason. Because and in accordance with the law that we have passed, Mr.4386/2016, there will also be a way of awarding scholarships. Extroversion is only guaranteed in a way when you have young people entering the research - and there you have social mobility - and young people to whom you give the way to find themselves at the heart of Europe, at the heart of history, so that they can do research.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u213	Please complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u214	I believe, Minister, that if we put these things in place, we will all have a good feeling at this first great step towards the establishment of such a research centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u217	Here, Minister, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u218	I'd like to clarify...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u219	Don't you want to put yourself in the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u220	I'd like three minutes, because some things are hovering and they're gonna have to end. I understand that the rapporteurs and parliamentarians are discussing and so on, but I have two things to say. One is in relation to the time margin of the organization. The Agency will, in any case, be the result of a recommendation by a chairman, a manager and a supervisory decision. So we want at least three months on the basis of the law, so that we can have the President with the procedures we're talking about. So, after three months, it's gonna happen. We cannot, in other words, get the agency now. The supervisory, the president's, the management, etc. must first be established, so we need a quarter. From there on - and I am talking about this, so that there is also the position of the Minister in plenary - immediately and once it has been completed, we want to have six months and the dialogues that will take place after the supervisory, the President, etc., become the body. Believe me, where he is involved - let us also bless our beards - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has quick procedures and will do so. Look, there's a question that was raised by the MPs, because the Athens Academy doesn't come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u221	It should be written in the provisions of the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u222	I can't do any more legislation. It will be in my statement as it is and is binding on the Minister. I thought too much and we discussed here what we can do. After the trimester that will end the matter of the Chairman of the Management and Supervisory Committee, within six months we are committed to making the regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u223	Let it be written in Article 8.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u224	I can't do any more legislation right now. I think I'm closed. I think you need to be content with that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u225	If you're committed to the issue of the Ministry's organization...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u226	Mr Kumucako, listen to me why it has been raised by you and some have expressed the question because it is not the Athens Academy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u227	The question is a constant one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u228	I know. There are many who put it and say "Why didn't you do that", "Why don't you do it", "why don't you do the other", "what you want", "no, the Academy is modernized", "no, the Academy is anachronistic". Well, listen, when in 2016 about May, if I remember the month well, we made the draft law public, I made a statement and said that this is a primary material we call on the institutions, communities, etc. to discuss this and to reach out to what I will bring to the House. It was essentially a primary, a preplan, which went for discussion, as I think should be done in all the bills. There were good criticisms, but there were too badly believed, namely, 'what are you doing', 'what are you doing, a cultural centre'? I was listening to all this. And there were miscalculations, such as the one even heard in plenary, namely that we could not change the objectives of the Institute. I'm telling you, we could and we can legally. So the Athens Academy came out and made a letter. I have these and if you want me to testify. He made a letter to the Prime Minister with notification to both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and to the friend who was then. I'll read it to explain this and get it over with. ‘The draft law abolishes the role of the supreme institution of the country in the obvious capacity and competence to actively participate in the international scientific presence and to select, on the basis of a tender, director and scholarship and to propose to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the appropriate director.’ In addition, Article 12(2)(b) of the draft law calls on the Athens Academy, i.e. the highest spiritual institution in the country, to propose a list of four candidates for the supervisory committee of the Institute, from which the Minister will finally choose one. Such a provision has never been made since the establishment of the Academy for any of its representatives in Greece or internationally. I call on the Academy to come talk in June. It is true that Mr Valtino who told me that 'we are not participating'. The answer, which I have in writing and is to me for that, and I can give it, is not classified, is this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u229	Confidentiality again?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u230	They're not rated, so I can give them. It says there: 'The new text does not differ from what is known'. As general remarks, the following points are set out. "The bill undermines the scientific self-sufficiency and freedom of the Academy" - not the Institute - "in all the academies of the countries where the principle of freedom to scientific acts and acts applies, including the Athens Academy, their members, to academics. In the bill, in Article 12(2), the Minister shall elect from more than one academic, exclusive right of the Academy, alone competent to designate as its members."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u231	He's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u232	Yeah, be careful. "The role of the Academy in decisive terms so far becomes decorative". She didn't want her own involvement either. What are you insisting here? I didn't mean to say it all along. I wanted us to focus on the institute and help it. I can go on - I have more - but she doesn't want it, and you tell me to put it on? What should I put on? And secondly, watch something. The supervisor may not check for a period that he was the same administrator. And when he was asked to replace the supervisory member, appointed by the Academy, so that he would not be in the supervisory body that would have to check periods that were the same member of the management, the Academy did not. And I have her letter. And you're telling me to put it on? That is what I wanted to say, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Along with Mr Tasoula, who will now take the floor, there are four other speakers left on the list. Here, Mr. Tsouula, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u234	The Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice is based on a history of hundreds of years. It is not even based on its founding law, not even on today's news, where another government of the country is attempting to control and define the institution's administration, as has happened in the past. The Institute is literally part of the vast historical time. The Greek presence in Venice is enormously important to know how it came to understand the role of the Institute, the role of Venice. One of the most important international Byzantineists, Steven Ranisman, says that history is determined by man’s reaction to the challenge of the environment. Mr. Philie, he doesn't say he's determined by the fight of order. He says something more charming. It says that it is determined by man's reaction to the challenge of the environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u235	Montesquieu said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u236	In 1479 in Venice there were five thousand Greeks. Shortly after the Alps, there were five thousand Greeks in Venice. It was the reaction to the challenge of the environment. What environment? After the Turkish rule and the Alps, the creative, the most educated, the most concerned Greeks originally fled to the republics of Greece, on Venice's sites in Greece. These were Nafpatto, Monemvasia - I tell you, Mr Davaki - Methoni, Koroni, Nafplio. From commercial stations, these regions became multi-human, noisy urban centres, thanks to the reaction of people who did not want to submit to Turkish rule. After the loss of these Venetian farms, this population became familiar with trade, progress, education, education, exploited contacts with the Venetian regime and permeated in Venice and Istria. This explains the presence of five thousand Greeks in Venice a few years after the Salvation. What was that all about? They were fugitives, dealers, seafarers, codgers, manuscript transponders. It was a number of specialties. In Venice all the spiritual wealth of Byzantium slowly moved to Venice. In Venice's archives, one finds all knowledge of the Byzantine Empire, about the relationship between Hellenism and the West. What happened next in Venice? There was a miracle. One of the Continental grandmakers, who went through Venice, created the merchants and scholars of Venice, the Epiphanius Abbot, Brothers Maruchai, Gumas. The three largest printeries of Venice had them Epirus, Sweets, Theodosios and Sarros. There the liberation of Greece was slowly prepared by means of the transformation of education, through money and schools created in Greece by the wealth they created in Venice. This transmutation was a miracle. There was no book that was circulating in the schools of the enslaved Greece - what was there - that had not been printed in these printing works. The Psalter, the Eighth, all that produced the expectation and the Great Idea were printed and sent from Venice. Thus, in Venice, in the early 1950 ’ s the Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies made sense, that is, the Institute within the source of knowledge and history for the post-Byzantine period. This goes beyond the governments, and that is why the institute did a great job, because it was just a research spiritual institution within a Greek island in Venice. We had the well-known Greek issues at times. We had attempts in '82, and sometimes to salt this and become a state annex. These attempts failed, but they did not leave indifferent, they did not leave the institute unshakable. Whenever the state, the party, tried to control the institute, left it injured for many years. And today the new left government is trying to do the same, under the illusion that it is original. He attempts to do the same, subjugate to the state a higher practical historical and spiritual institution that exists in the foreign and performs a shocking and historic work. Normally, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should leave completely out of the way, take over the Ministry of Education and the Athens Academy or at least, since you cannot improve the situation and help them regulate their finances, do nothing. Leave it to the next one to do the right thing. The right thing would be to go to the Ministry of Education, in my opinion, and to make it easier for them to regulate their finances. They are not corrected by Article 7, which says they are self-financed. You can't put an article and say: you're financially strong, you're good-looking, you're intelligent. They don't legislate. They're not financially sound. They have obligations. They have 40% reduction in their revenues. They need at least 350,000 euros to repair, maintain and repair property they need to rent. The new positions we add, create administrative costs in excess of EUR 350,000 per year. It's not a prosperous thing. And instead of relying on it, we are looking to subjugate them, so that we can appoint the one we want to be commander, president, director, demolished the Athens Academy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is not the first and only Greek scientific departure abroad. The first scientific departure abroad was made by Plato, three times in Sicily, believing that he would convince Dionysius II to follow the view that kings should be philosophed. Plato went to Syracuses three times. All three times he left badly, because he found himself practicingly and at the risk of his life that the transformation of his own academy into a tyrannical environment, what he put at risk, not only his ideas, but his life. That's where Plato learned that others say the letters and things say. Today you are attempting by law to confirm that unfortunately once again the things of the party Greek system, which is disguised by PASOK in SYRIZA, when and when to be honest, has the same morbid orientation. Everything that is out of control, anything that can magnify, anything that talks with history must barely talk to the party, talk to our own control. It's a huge mistake. It will lead the Institute to further disorganisation, until it comes a day when a next government - which I believe will be the New Democracy - will understand that the best thing a government has to do with the Venice Institute is what Plato did with Dionysius, leave and leave, free in the spiritual world.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. Mrs Kefaliannis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that the government brings to the vote today for the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice is an attack on Greek culture. SYRIZA - ANLL government is attempting by law, flagrantly ignoring patriotism, generosity, the unselfishness of its founders and the long-term offer of its employees, in essence its suppression to serve other purposes. Despite the fact that the New Democracy, by our rapporteur, has tabled proposals and amendments to ensure that there is a constructive debate, as should have been, that there should be a fruitful exchange of proposals for institutional strengthening of the Institute, transparency, accountability, merit, that you have decided in your well-known reactionary way not to incorporate anything into the draft law, that you should not discuss anything, so that this bill immersed the Institute into monolithics, into parties that are reasonable contrary to its founding purpose, by turning it into a service centre for the days. Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to highlight a few points. First of all, in the draft law under discussion, the purpose of the Institute is changed and even the term'main aims' is used. The equal quotation of the Institute's bill of seven new purposes, namely the promotion of cultural diplomacy through the organization of events, the provision of educational programs, the management of digital material and multimedia and the use of musical material and not the placing of the latter to the main purpose, according to the founding statute and the law in force, is a flagrant violation of the spirit with which the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies was founded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u239	Have you read the bill? You're talking about other things!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u240	Please don't start dialogue. Respect the speaker. Continue, Mrs. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u241	It alters the research character of the institution that aims to promote Greek culture through the study of Byzantine and post-Byzantine history, as is clearly noted in practice by the donation of the Greek community of Venice to the Greek state. Moreover, the alteration of the purpose stops the archaeological research conducted for decades by the institute’s partners with excellent results in Venice’s archives and libraries. Venetian studies, that is, with so much trouble they have developed in a separate sector with an international dimension, will no longer be cultivated in Venice by a Greek institute which has committed itself in this area. Because it is clear that the establishment of the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies Venice with the legacy of the Greek community was intended to promote Byzantine and post-Byzantine studies, not only from the rich archives, but also through the study of the archives of Italy and even Venice, as well as the relationships and mutual effects between Byzantine and modern Hellenism with the Western world, with the main fields of research, history, literature and art. These elements are not mentioned in the draft law brought by the government to the vote. We must also remember that the assets of the Institute, namely its real estate, come from legions and donations of the Greek community of Venice and according to the Constitution, it is not allowed to change the terms or conditions of a covenant or donation for the public. Furthermore, the involvement of the work of the institute of foreigners to science is preventing the institution from operating as a scientific centre. I shall also refer to the subject of the Athens Academy, where during the past few decades it has always been a significant presence to maintain the high research and scientific level of the activities of the Institute and the draft law effectively abolishes the role of the supreme spiritual institution of the country in terms of its obvious status and competence to actively participate in our international scientific presence and to select director and scholars. The institution, under the new law, has the direct jurisdiction of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who will now use it to promote cultural diplomacy. The President of the Institute is not elected by a scientific body, as the directors of research institutes around the world are elected, but are proposed by a three-member committee, which fuels conditions of undermining the process at the expense of both the administration and the scientific and research work of the Institute. Nor does the work to be done by the President, for example, say that he will guide the scholars in his investigation, which is his essential task. The president should be a first-time professor or a researcher and not a lower grade, as the institution is a high scientific authority. The bill does not specify how scholars should be selected, nor even their number - so far five to six scholarships, every three years - the scholarship time of scholars conducting postgraduate research in Venice archives and libraries, in which valuable, unknown primary sources of our history are preserved, is not recognized by the Ministry of Education as a postgraduate degree and is therefore necessary to be taken into account by the Ministry of Education at least as a first-cycle postgraduate course. The bill does not mention the institution of the host researchers. The need to develop scientific dialogue with foreign researchers has so far been very successful with the institution of the hosts. Many, after all, foreign guests were coming for a few months, staying at the institute and studying in his archive and library. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion the proposed abundance, the attack on the Venice Institute by this bill is empirically unacceptable, it is criminal. After all, this has recently been pointed out by public interventions by many important academics and academics, as well as by spiritual people of international aggression. I could not refer here to the desperate but also angered appeal from the leading Byzantineist and prominent Greekist Eleni Glyptzis - Arveler: "I learn with surprise that a bill is being discussed for the Hellenic Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies Venice, the best and only institution that Greece happened to have abroad and that thanks to its worthy directors. Definitely, Argits! This institute, if it does not keep its scientific knowledge, will be done instead." For all these reasons, this draft law, which adversely alters the aims and functions of the Venice Institute, is against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u242	Thank you to Mrs Kefaliannis and to the accuracy of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u243	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u244	What are you? Congressman? And the President did not comment on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u245	I made an observation, Mrs Kefaliannis, and I said don't open a dialogue. It's not right to comment. Mrs Zoe Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a Greek institute based in Venice and for which there has been no real care from the Greek governments until today. Educational and scientific institutes developed around the world from many countries are usually associated with culture and with the history of each country. They are a point of reference in communities abroad, they are working to improve the status and recognition of the country of reference. Despite its long history, despite the existence of important Greek communities abroad, despite the existence of historical relations and links with many countries, Greece has not really dealt with this level of growing relations. We see countries with a smaller historical and cultural footprint on the global precinct investing in various parts of the world, highlighting their culture and history. Our country has a corresponding institute, the only Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice, governed by its 1951 law, with a body formed by a Royal Decree in 1966. It is clear to everyone that the institutional framework of operation and organisation needs at least modernisation. This modernisation must follow the rules governing our country's educational institutions, ensure transparency in the management of its resources and property, despite being self-financed. He must not alter the purposes and scope of his interests, strengthen - and why not? - to broaden the horizons and roles and in the context of assistance, the country's diplomatic relations. The proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs covers the above objectives. He sets certain rules for such an institution. It clearly defines its scope of action. It shall ensure transparency in the management of resources and property. It defines the framework that meets the modern world. This institute cannot remain entrenched in the academic community. The academic community cannot remain entrenched in expanding scientific knowledge and research unless it is channelled to society. The administration which will arise in accordance with the rules of operation of educational institutions in our country will have clearly defined and distributed competences. It will have the available human resources to develop even more. The problems in the institution’s operation are recognised by everyone. Transparency in the management of its resources cannot be continued. The Institute remains self-financed. However, it acquires a system of organisation and operation, rational, functional and capable of helping it develop, serve its purposes for which it was founded. With this bill, it puts an end to the ineffective assignment of all structures and actions to a single person, who, however capable he may be, cannot fully respond to all the actions that this can and must develop. The opposition, with pretexts once again, is trying to refer an issue that should not be divided, but unite, into the bells of the future. The Government has listened to the arguments of all the parties involved and its proposal rationally combines both the views of the operators and the rules of legislation which serve the public interest. The incorporation of the Institute into legal persons governed by public law safeguards it, protects it, upgrades it, directly connects it to the community, makes it a real asset to the entire academic community of scientific interest in Byzantine studies and academic research. It is clear how the institutions are to be represented and how they are to be represented. Care shall be taken to ensure the necessary transparency in the management of economics. The first step is to make effective use of the deepening, the cultivation of the country's international relations and, of course, the aims for which it has been founded have been fully maintained from the outset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mrs Lebanese. Mr. Mumulides has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill today - I must confess - in an extremely creative climate. It is one of the few times that important concerns and substantial proposals are put forward in plenary and there is also a dialogue, which, wherever it comes from, aims - I think - at the best development of a body that is very important for Greece. To go a little further, because most of the things have been said and the time has come for us to refer to the objectives of the Foundation and to what is the Institute. It has a significant publishing activity in which it publishes books of Greek and foreign scientists, an annual scientific journal, organises conferences and lectures, provides free hospitality to researchers, scientists working for their persecutors. The Institute facilitates scientists to deal with post-Byzantine research and offers six scholarships every year and others. Also important is the property of the Institute, since the Hellenic Community of Venice has offered important buildings and its property there are some buildings of special architectural and cultural value, such as the church of Saint George of the Greeks, the museum building of the Institute, the Flongian School building and as well. Also, the Institute owns - and this is particularly important - a significant number of images, objects and utensils of worship, the Hellenic Archive of Venice, which includes the years 1498 to 1959. It's a record of special historical value. Today the institution owns more than sixty buildings, while its annual revenues from rents exceed one million euros. It is important, therefore, that, after many years of government has come to deal with and legislate for the only important Venice Institute, which is, after all, the only legal entity governed by public law that operates as a research centre outside Greece. The Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies, therefore, would dare to say that it does not belong to us. It actually belongs to the international scientific community. It belongs to people's history and time, and that is why we have a responsibility to manage it in the best possible way. Through the historical institute we must defend the reality and history of our country when the East meets with the West. We are obliged to maintain the uniqueness of this institute, maintain and strengthen its scientific and research status and strengthen its international role. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there are areas of discussion in which all democratic forces could agree. I think it is important for the political staff of the country to appear on the substance of issues relating to the modernisation of structures, the development of new outward-looking policies, but above all, the extroversion and expansion of the country's presence abroad and, indeed, in areas such as education and culture, in which our country has been overwhelming, but unfortunately, an advantage to at least its European partners. I would like here to point out a paradox of Greek reality. We are actually talking about a cultural institution, an institution of culture and the dialogue is missing from the Ministry of Culture. I think that we can give this to the momentum, to bureaucracy and to the fact that we do not often understand the importance of important institutions. Therefore, I would like to say that the operation of this institution, I think, is self-evident between the two 'partners', between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education, mainly belongs to the Ministry of Education. I think that's self-evident for everyone in here. Venice has been deeply linked to Byzantium for centuries. This is where the East and West dialogue is being established. Venice has remained an important centre of arts and letters for centuries. For all the above reasons, which I think we have pointed out to them, the President should be free to give his scientific mark, to choose the policy he believes to extend the Institute's objectives. The president should be an important dynamic person from the university field, who will have full responsibility for the design of the Institute's scientific and research programme during his term of office. I now come to what we all see as innovation or success, but what the rest of Europe has won for decades. I'm talking about the role of financial manager. Since there is actually no coexistence, there is no dialogue between the Ministries over time in Greece, we should understand that all supervised bodies of the Ministry of Culture or similar supervised bodies of the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in this case the Byzantine Foundation of Venice, have to operate in a simple way. The role of the Director or the Chairperson is special from that of the Director. This is happening throughout Europe. We've discovered it slowly over the last few years. That's something. Remember that, because I hope that soon we will also discuss the institutional framework of the supervising bodies of the Ministry of Culture. I think the same should apply to the procedure for selecting candidates for doctoral and postdoctoral scholarships. Responsibility for continuing research must be the responsibility of scientists. In conclusion, I would like to address the Minister and ask him, in my turn, not to remain a theoretical statement, but to make a commitment. I propose that, in a six-month period, the existence, the legalisation, the functioning of the organisation be completed, because I believe that we are at a key point as a political system, as a country, as a state, but also as a government, and we should be extremely specific - as Mr Xydakis said in his speech - in what we are announcing and not leaving any gap that a further head of a ministry may question. I hope with the implementation of this draft law, which I have to say is significantly improved, that the only research institution we have abroad will be reborn, that we do not repeat past errors and that we contribute with dialogue in the design of other similar institutions in other countries. Our country is constantly going through the new era and in the new era there are no selfish policies, personal strategies and purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr. Mumulides. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st General School of Agrinio (second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The last speaker, Mr Stylus, has the floor for seven minutes. Then we'll start with the seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll speak from my place. I shall refer to the amendments tabled by the Minister for Education and not to the bill. An amendment was tabled and is being discussed, concerning the TEI of Athens and the TEI of Piraeus. Reading this article, we see that an authorisation is given to the Minister, an extension to the institutions of both institutions until 31 January 2018. Then the Minister gets an authorisation from this particular article, if voted by fellow Members, to be able to renew this deadline until twice. I understand that the Ministry of Education's leadership is improvising. The Prime Minister announced last spring that the University of Western Athens was created by the merger and merger of the two institutions, the Athens TEI and the Piraeus TEI, but it appears that there is no specific and constructed plan and there is no framework and limit that the government would set to complete and implement its specific promises and commitments. So, once again, we have reports from the Ministry of Education, announcements, which are theoretical, without content. What is it that I also want to show? The same thing happened with the pan-Hellenic exams. It was announced that the pan-Hellenic examinations were abolished and then came to the Ministry again without a plan and said that the pan-Hellenic examinations would take place twice a year and again from the beginning. I call on the Bureau and the Government to do this: let the leadership of the Ministry of Education be much more careful and much more specific with such sensitive issues relating to higher education that concern the future of the new generation of our country and also to our children. I come to the second point. In the amendment there is a change in the composition, the abolition of the post of CEO of an organisation of the Ministry of Education, INEDIBIM. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what is the work and purpose of this organism? The Minister said that the post of CEO has been abolished, without justifying why this is being done. Do you know that this organisation is responsible for feeding most universities in the country, that he is responsible for the operation of the country's student centres? Do you know that from this body the teachers of the IEK are paid, the orientals, who are thousands of teachers that this income is their only? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that this agency pays the cleaners that clean schools all over the country? Do you know that this agency with your management, with two administrations that changed to the SYRIZA Government after 2015, has a major problem of sub-financing and non-operation? Do you know that there are European programmes such as 'Youth in Action' and we lose money and they have been returned to the European Union because you have put an administration that does not manage the Agency's issues? On all these issues, the head of the Ministry of Education is absent from the government. The responsibility is total, all of you. So what are we waiting for? We expect that he will come at some point, in January or later, where the homes will not be safe, the feeding will not work well in universities and institutions, cleaners throughout the country will not be paid, the IEK instructors will not be paid. What is the government's position? For all this, there was no position today by the Minister of Education. The last: The central building of the organization, INEDIDIS, has been occupied for more than twenty days now and has not become the slightest energy and movement from the Ministry of Education to provide a solution to the problem. Why is she in captivity? Can a public building be in occupancy? Has there been any energy? I can inform you that no action has been taken by the Ministry of Education to cooperate and consult the workers' association. The Minister of Education with other things is involved. Aren't there any Undersecretaries in this ministry? They don't meet the workers' club, don't they? The workers of this particular organization themselves do not know what their future is. There have been conflicting decisions from the boards and we have some stunning moves from the Ministry of Education that they will make management control since 2011, that there is a conclusion from the auditors of the public administration and that it was sent to the Marios Ice, when the finding has already been to justice and the prosecutor. To run management checks. Why don't they? Why this impression? Why do you make these moves and do not work essentially? In times of economic crisis, you realise how important and essential it is that our children can have housing and food in universities and institutions. I wonder how a government, which says that it is pro-collegiate and left-wing, does not care about the workers in the organization, does not care about the well-trained teachers of the IEK. I'm gonna need a few more seconds, Mr. President. In Artas Law, the Minister of Education committed himself in early September here, in this Chamber, that two primary schools will operate in Athamani - it is also the country of the Prime Minister - and in Agnada. On October 30th the FEK came out for the operation of primary schools. We have arrived in December, and there is still no teacher, and the tragic thing is that these children have not been attending a single hour of teaching until now. I don't know if anyone listens to me. I don't know who can intervene. I have been addressing both the Ministry and the department and the regional director and the training director, but these things are unheard of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr. Style. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers has been completed. We're entering the secondary stage. Because everyone has shown interest and want to be placed, I would suggest that we reduce as much time as possible in five minutes, with tolerance. Anyone that takes more time sees it, because if we say seven to seven and a half minutes, we will reach nine to ten and we will never finish, so we shall finish as soon as possible. Mrs Triantafel has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think there was a meeting which heard important and interesting things, despite some disagreements and controversies. Maybe the tons were raised sometimes. This isn't the first time. I think, however, that we had a meeting, which was a normal meeting and, above all, there were things that helped the legislative process itself. We agree on the amendments. They were defended by the ministers now. In relation to the bill, I would like to say two - three things, which are not all very important. In the case of legislative improvements and amendments to the parliamentary procedure, there is an essential issue. The essential issue is, firstly, that there should not be any amendments that are irrelevant to the draft law. Unfortunately, there were even today. The second issue, which concerns legislative improvements, the timeliness of production, is a very important issue. As for the rest, if the SYRIZA rapporteur knew or did not know it, the opinions differ. It's not a big deal. There is a lot of talk and there is no need to hear such things when we are all in the Chamber and in the committees and we know them. For example, as far as the purpose is concerned, the Minister said, after hearing the bodies, that the purpose would be changed. I'm sorry about the tone before, Mr. Fisherman. I am not used to raising tons - and for no reason - for matters which are very simple and practically they can be answered. However - you will tell me that it has not been reflected and we see it today - clearly this commitment of the Minister immediately after the bodies have been heard. Some other legal arrangements were mentioned, but were not given by the Minister. However, I think the Minister said during the debate on the articles that he would implement them. But there were indeed new regulations that came today, regulations which are important, do not change the meaning of the bill, but help to improve the functioning of what we are going to legislate. As to whether the changes were made on the basis of the proposals made by the institutions and Members and whether some of us were or were not there, I think we were all there. It's always like this. They were made on the basis of the proposals made in the committee, but also by Members, and they were done and will be evaluated, of course, and evaluated. That is why the parties vote positively or negatively. For the need for legislation, today's institution, the first thing is that chronic pathogens have been concluded. We have also heard the institutions, we have heard the MPs of the Coupling and Representation. It has been heard, at least by some of the Members of the Co-Population, what these pathogens are. They were described in a way, not so much by the Vice-Presidents, nor by the institutions. As far as pathogens are concerned, they may be management difficulties, may be administrative uncertainties, may be outdated legislation due to time, developments, etc. It may be all of this and much more, but there was necessity and that is why today the legislation is coming here. Of course, it is pandemic, in our view, that the Venice Institute should be required to operate because it is not working. A lot has been said about the relationship between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education and that is important. It has been heard, let's say, that the Ministry of Education gives responsibility to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In any case, what concerns me and should concern all Members is this: In time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plays this role? I am not just talking about this government. It was heard that over time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs played this role. We need to be concerned about that. Is that the role of the Ministry? Do we accept that? Of course, Mr. Tsoulus, with whom we might disagree, but he's honest, said something else. He said: "Not all the leaderships of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs", i.e. from all the Ministrys of Foreign Affairs, but from these leaders of these governments who want partyisation, who are actually trying to implement the principle of partyisation. What does that mean? I read it 'I read it' that it has to do with the Left or with the Central Left. No relationship with each other, but I'read' that attempts have to do with him or with these spaces. If, ladies and gentlemen, we accept this - I do not accept it as formulated and I do not have the time to say any more - it is a huge problem for the functioning and existence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself. Finally, there was a great plea to the authority. Invoking authority, you all know, is a way of persuasion. I'm going to stand up a little, no matter what Mr. Loverd said. He called two people, a well-known historian and another person. In my view, for the second case, because I have read the article, which gives the parties themselves a line, particularly in the political opposition party itself, I think that no authority has any reason to do so. There have been various inaccuracies and exaggerations, such as the destruction of Greek culture. I'm not going to comment on it. What do I think? And I'm ending up with this because I abused time and thank you for tolerance. The Institute must function in such a way as to promote historical memory and continuity. Mr Loverdos quite rightly said - and I call on him quite rightly - that 'Byzantium, the Byzantine civilization himself, really does not have the place he deserves our education'. That's right. I conclude by saying that if that is the case, it means, as I said in committee, that design and research and knowledge are not shaped by a unique criterion, unfortunately, the discovery of the truth. So let us try to give this breath of life, with a better institutional framework for the operation of the Venice Institute. I think it's a start. And from now on, if we can have additional improvements, let us do so next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mrs Triantafyllou. Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u254	I would also like a slight tolerance, Mr President. There are other issues. Ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice has prompted us to a substantial debate, precisely because the Institute itself has a strong history, which obliges all political forces and every serious legislator to think twice and three times before joining proposals and decisions. As in any legislation, but more now for this institution, proper legislation must be based on knowledge of the past and vision of the future. I fear that this piece of legislation is only interested in the present, what will happen tomorrow, tomorrow, what will happen during this government's term of office. Our personal view was that, after sixty years, we should see the possibility of improvements in its operation, because the deterioration of time is, in fact, inevitable. The immorality was neither our choice. That is why we have tabled constructive concrete proposals and thoughts. I must admit that Mr Amanatidis was in good mood. He tried, but his outline of positions from his ministry did not allow him to take the extra step to meet in the middle. Efforts have been made to improve. These efforts, however, prove to be imperfect, so imperfect that they are insufficient. We are not convinced that today's changes, which we have said, in good faith, have tried to bring about - and to some extent - Mr Amanatidis does not change the main direction of the legislation. And we are not convinced that in its present form it is doing what I told you at the beginning. There's no vision for the future. It has a management and anguish for the present. And that's why we're not going to vote on it. You will only allow me two comments. We said we should respect the academic community and the Athens Academy. I think it was done by all of us, each one in his own way. But I cannot accept a sudden anggression against the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not in its present form, over time. The creation of the Institute itself is due to the vision and inspiration of a diplomat, Marinos Siguros. The money was gathered with efforts by Gerasimos Messinis, an unpaid consul of our country in Venice. In all these sixty years, everything produced, was produced by harmonious coexistence, co-existence of the Institute with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is other than the foreign ministry's dominance over the Institute. That is why, when we talk about history, when we talk about the present and the future of critical issues, we should not be institutions either of personal ambition or of institutional strife. We have tried to put forward improvements, which have not been accepted. There are other issues that are open. For example, Article 8 states that the Institute's body will define the institution's services. This means that they open new doors for potential posts and appointments. There is an anti-constitutional prediction that KHS can regulate matters, and there should be a presidential decree, etc. So our position is what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u255	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u256	I'll tell you. It's in Article 9. Look at it. Minister, in my narrative I referred to the issues of the days that have been raised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the centre of the public debate. I told you that I realise that it is an unpleasant position for you, because you are not personally involved. But here, for bad luck, more of your own, you represent the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we have to say a few things. I wouldn't say it because the Minister is absent. His continued statements, however, made daily press releases make him present. And so we need to be placed. We must put ourselves - as I promised - without being drawn away from his obvious and uncontrolled irritation. And I'll do it, I won't get carried away. I also said that I will continue parliamentary control solely on the basis of national interests. And that's what I'm gonna do. I'm not going to get carried away, but I'm going to control parliamentary work. You know, yesterday we also asked responsiblely for me and Mr Loverdos to be informed by Mr Kotzias as representatives of the heads of our parties on secret telegrams, to which the Prime Minister has referred, inviting the Heads of State to be informed. The Chiefs designate people to be informed of their representatives. I don't know exactly how Mr. Loverdos got it, but I sent a letter. We have received a written criticism from the Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, that these are communication terminals. So let's get this over with Mr. Kodzia's communications terminals. We have already tabled - and is located in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - a written authorisation by the Head of State of the New Democracy and Chief of Police, Mr. Mitsotakis, who fully and in writing empowers me to take into account all the documents relating to this case. I place this authorisation in the Minutes so that it can be in Members' knowledge. [[At this point Mr Georgios Koumoutsaskos presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But things are not over here, Minister. I am therefore waiting for my assurance yesterday that it will not deny the Qualified Opposition the information, at least now that there is written authorisation, to change its position because it has an opportunity. Because if it does not change its position now, you realise that no one can wrong us to say that there is an attempt to frustrate, congested and drunken, so that nothing essential does not come to the knowledge of Officerial Opposition and political parties. And of course we'll be waiting for his answer. We are, however, going to something else that happened a week ago in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, while the debate on armaments in the sale of military equipment in Saudi Arabia was a long time ago. The debate was culminating in the full democratic whole for the diplomatic body, but especially for our ambassador to Riyadh, a position of Prime Minister. He talks with a Sfakianakis, possibly mediator, and actually conveys his information. In short, he's his man. Dedicating characterizations, shaking the representative of Greece in Riyadh! What would anyone expect after that, public permeation? At least the revocation within forty-eight hours for service in Athens. Is there such a thing? Oh, no. But there is something else: On 20 November, then, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs decides, as is the case every time, the moves of diplomatic officials with an embassy for the year 2018. Who's being transferred? What embassies are included in the movements? The embassies of Abu Dhabi, the Beirut Embassy, the Vienna embassy, Islamabad, Karakas, Manila, Bangkok, Tokyo, Pristina. Where's Riyadh? You had an opportunity on November 20th. This unacceptable diplomat, the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Mr Kammenos, is not transferred to the normal moves, the one who has not done his job well, always according to the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Kumucaco, we've reached nine minutes. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u258	You will allow me to finish with that, Mr President. It is not, therefore, being transferred or revoked. On the contrary, it remains where it is supposed to have privileged relations. Same goes for his guard. Also, the ambassador has completed two years and could be transferred properly. Or did diplomatic employees not do their job well, and they must be punished and the question is why are they staying or, if they did it well, why do they break apart? It can't both happen. Is it all because they know that truth? Is that why it has been imposed on them - as far as we know and know - I do not use things that I do not know - in a way that is unprecedented for the Ministry of Immunity, in an authoritarian way of other forms of regimes? And one last thing: it seems from the evolution of the case that he, Mr Sfakianakis, who gave information to the Greek embassy, is justified by the developments, because the agreement was not made. Others came here as empowered and not Mr Papadopoulos. So this is probably a source of information about the embassy and therefore for the country. And this source of information comes the country's Prime Minister himself here to "burn it" publicly. This has happened and I wonder who will want to have contacts again, either in Riyadh or elsewhere, informing a small- and medium-sized country of any information it needs when it knows that the government of that country at the highest level, when it is getting a little harder and throwing a second name into the debate, reveals its sources? These are very serious issues of vital importance to the interests of the country, to its foreign policy. Tomorrow we put a timely question to Mr Kotzia. I am sorry to have spoken without being here, I would have liked it to be here, but I told you, when you are making 15 press releases and statements insulting, we can only consider that they are alive. We'll wait for his answers. Minister, I am presenting for the minutes the reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Kumucaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Secretary, there is nothing personal, don't interrupt the procedure now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u262	No, I'm not talking about personal. Look, if the debate is to be transformed, I raise a point of order because there is the bill. However, we have said on topical issues, Mr Kotzias and others have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u263	The document is inconsistent, Mr. Secretary, but the content is so serious as to be double-secret.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u264	Like what I said about the Academy, it is undignified that she does not want, but I did not see a reaction that the Academy itself does not want to be involved, say that "all right, if she does not want, we do not insist". Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u265	We're escaping the process, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, we have a bill. Well, there are issues of topicality. But if, in any bill that comes, there is a repetition, either because some of the Opposition, or even from the Collision, want to try again through statements to restore the climate, because it did not like when the discussion was held on Monday, that is why the Civilian Opposition can make statements very well, whatever anyone wants and make them out. Otherwise, when we are discussing this, there should also be a debate on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u267	It's clear, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u268	But think about reopening a major political issue. I want to answer that. There can be no reversal of reality, no matter how much they attempt. I don't think you can do this in an announcement right now. I can end the debate, but I don't think it's right for you to talk about all this and I can't. That's not Parliament's procedure, but, anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u269	Okay, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u271	Mr Kumucako, please don't open a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u272	I shall be extremely brief and concise, Mr President. I respect the difficult position of Mr Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u273	I have not come in a difficult position, but, if I do, Parliament and the bill are wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u274	It's not about the...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u275	Mr. Undersecretary, I don't say it in bad faith. I don't say it in bad faith, nor by reducing you. These developments are also running here if anyone raises this issue is the continuing interventions of the Foreign Minister and with an open look. Without having read, without evaluating, he is attacking, re-enforcing, but unfortunately, for him, his ministry's indisputable documents, which are now common to all, they hide far greater power and power than they are trying to hide with the secrets and special handling.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u276	It's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u277	You're wrong with the bill. I feel bad about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Secretary, please end this matter here. Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have also pointed out to the committee the importance of this bill, that despite the few articles that constitute it, it is huge in its content. An institute with long history, international readability and rich work. Ladies and gentlemen, both at the hearing of the bodies and at the debate of the bill in committee, and today in plenary the multi-faceted work of the Institute has emerged. However, the desire of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was recorded to the extent that the Institute could function. It is true, Minister, that the absence of the Athens Academy by the management bodies of the Institute raises many questions. For with its participation, Mr Minister, the prestige and the international recognition of the Institute is guaranteed. Also, Minister, the purpose of the Institute must remain strictly researchable, as was the case to this day. A clear position, Minister, is what applies to research centres in our country. This institute must have a scientific and research role and not a diplomatic and management role. And I come to the amendments that have been tabled. For the amendment with a general number of 1363 and a special number 22, the regulatory provisions contained in the amendment are necessary. For the application and completion of imperfections of Law 4422/2017 brought by your government, we vote present. For the amendment with a general number of 1364 and a specific number of 23, the amendment certainly affects the prudential control of the Court of Auditors and, in some cases, the repressive, as it does, I would say, legally all the individual administrative acts adopted. We are voting against this. For the amendment with a general number of 1365 and a special number 24, AEMY S.A. recall that it was fought by SYRIZA, saying that we are privatising health. Today, however, it is the government’s best tool to recruit hospitals. Because today the proclaimed recruitments will appear to be irresponsible. We, Minister, propose permanent recruitment through an APA. We are voting against this amendment. With the amendment of a general number 1366 and a special number 25, we are opposed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by pointing out that the legislative improvements reduce, I would say, partly our concerns. They don't heal them. That is why they are coming at the last minute, so that they are not treated in such a way. I would point out, Minister, that our main points were not accepted. The absence from the five-member committee of a member from the Athens Academy, the absence of research character from the Institute and its transformation into a diplomatic body makes us disagree vertically. Therefore, although there are articles in the positive direction, we are obliged to table our disagreement in principle. Finally, Minister, consensus is not exhausted in good mood, which, today, I would say, was evident from all the wings of this House. They must be clearly and specific commitments made by the draft law editor to the body of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr. Kostantopoulos, and for the economy in time. Come on, Mr. Grego, you have the floor for five minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. It's a bill that started, or else it turned out to be. Of course, some legislative improvements have been made, which we have taken into account, and we really have had all the good intention of voting in favour of some articles. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Iliopoulou, referred to the issues of current news. So I will only refer to the amendments. We are voting against Amendment 1319. This extends much the scope of the Ministry of Education's jurisdictions. Currently - regardless of the content of the bill - an amendment is authorized by the Minister to define the duties of teachers, not only in the special education units and in the differential centres, but also in the special teachers serving in primary and secondary schools. Again with an amendment that has nothing to do with the bill, the government is attempting to broaden the scope of the Minister of Education's approval, which, through its institutional vehicle, is at the forefront of all methods reflecting obsolete payments. In Amendment No 1362 on the extension of the term of office of the institutions of the Athens and Piraeus TEIs, we are voting'residents'. These are the mandates of administrative bodies that were extended until 30 November 2017 and with this amendment they are extended until 31 January 2018, with the commitment that a draft law will be adopted in advance. In other words, just one day before, again with an amendment tabled late at night, the government intends to resolve the matter with another extension. In Amendment No 1363 we are also voting 'the present'. Of course, it is an unrelated amendment. It deals with matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence. Here, Article 1 of the amendment adds to Article 1 of Law 4472/2017, according to which a joint ministerial decision determines the amount of contributions and reservations in favour of the share funds. In other words, it is about the reservations of the share funds, and it does not raise a single issue. Also - very importantly - the Port House Fund has not been included. It leaves, in short, the future of detentions in joint ministerial decisions. Benefitful provisions, such as an increase in the amount of one-off financial assistance from EUR 972 per year to EUR 1 000 and from EUR 1,944 to EUR 2 000, must not lure us. Furthermore, the provision that booking returns will not be sought constitutes a virtual advantage, if not a hindrance. That was not the case, to be asked against the recipients. Generally speaking, it is an vague provision, without seeming to serve a certain objective. We are voting against Amendment No 1364. Without having been put into public consultation, it is attempting to legitimise and thus produce their legal consequences the individual administrative acts of the contracts of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which continued without having been audited by the Court of Auditors. Again with an irrelevant amendment, which relates to the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, it is rapidly attempting to resolve and remedy the lack of control of legality, which had to be carried out before their conclusion. We are voting 'at present' on Amendment No 1. Although we realise the need to fill gaps and the need to run the posts of the Thera Hospital, we cannot agree with this amendment, as AEMY enters, to resolve health issues. AEMY is a limited company. Thus, it makes sense to ask ourselves how to defend the proper functioning of the public health character. How it is possible, in other words, to defend the public character of health benefits when embodiing an anonymous company with capital, etc.Huh? Another reason why we are not voting for the amendment is that the AACC has no decisive role but adopts. So his role is purely formal and decorative. Let us say here that we have also tabled a relevant question to the Minister responsible. I submitted it myself on 25 June 2017. Of course, we have not received an answer from the relevant Minister, which also affects the inhabitants of the island. In Amendment No 1366, we are voting on'representations'. It seeks to regulate it out of hand with a last minute's amendment an issue that is quite important and thorny, that of the Translation Service. We don't make a sterile opposition. We highlight the right and the wrongs and vote in the national interest. And because it is always timely, any name of the Skopje format that includes the term "Macedonia" or a derivative for us is national treason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr. Grego. Mr Tassos has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. A more general comment on our position on the bill has to do - and I said that in my prototype - with our main objection to the market perception of research. In other words, research cannot be a matter of legacies and donations. That can't be. Research is socially good. It should therefore be supported by society as a whole and made to the benefit of society and not to the benefit of business groups, as is now the case. That is our main objection. In this context, we are also placed in the relevant bill concerning the Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies. As far as the amendments are concerned, in Amendment No 1319, which is incorporated as Article 12 and Amendment No 1320, which is incorporated as Article 13, we are voting 'the present'. We are voting against Amendment No 1363 as we vote against, because the contributions to the funds and other special accounts are, in fact, allowed to be regulated by the free market. We are therefore opposed to that and we are voting against it. We are also voting against the amendment, with a general number of 1364 and a special number 23, which is essentially bypassing the Court of Auditors. We are voting against it for reasons of transparency and all that - supposedly - must be served. These are not guaranteed. As far as private contracts are concerned, we are voting 'yes' on this amendment for the public limited health company. First of all, we want to ensure that all those working with fixed-term employment relationships are made an indefinite period of time. In addition, there should be additional intakes of indefinite time for the full operation of the Thera Hospital. We also want workers to join permanent full-time and full-time jobs. We are also voting against Amendment No 1366 and a special 25 on the Translation Service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because we want permanent staff for all languages and to provide this service free of charge for the citizens. That's not guaranteed. On the contrary, this service is even more privatised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. Mr Katsikis has the floor for five minutes from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, it has been agreed in the Chamber since the beginning of the sitting that this time should be devoted to the positions of the parliamentary representatives with regard to the amendments tabled. Instead, we heard the continuation of the debate in plenary yesterday at the time of the New Democracy question in breach of the Rules of Procedure, but also of the parliamentary consistency that the representative of the New Democracy should have - and he did not - on the one hand and on the other hand, with your tolerance to now, at this time and with me to continue with what I wanted to avoid. I am very sorry, not only because we have escaped the process, but because I see people who, in the vatrette they have suffered, have no tolerance and are proved to be the few in Parliament today, because there is no such mental force that they should have to accept their defeat. Instead, they continue to say today that this case will come to Parliament again and that it is not over. They have not even been convinced by the President of the New Democracy to obtain documents, classified or unqualified, by Minister Kotzias, who is very honoured as Minister for Foreign Affairs and Diplomacy in our country. Because with these documents - and I am sure they will - they will prove what they have not been able to achieve in a storm of revelations by the Prime Minister the other day, where the following was achieved: not only did the truth shine in a crystal clear and clear way, but on the other hand it proved that the responsible person, who probably enclosed such an agreement in terms of its conclusion, was that name just mentioned by the spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Sfakianakis. And I wonder why the new Republic's rapporteur reacts to that? And if he had a real reason to react, why is this Mr Sfakianakis not reacting? Sfakianakis does not react, whose cause was imputed to him the other day, and Mr Koumoutsakos, who today represents the New Democracy, reacts. They are not convinced when documents come in this Chamber, which are not questioned by anyone. They can't even question them themselves. They have not even a document contrary to what has been submitted and shredded by the truth, but they are trying through the distortion of truth and the abuse of reality to prove that what has been perpetrated, their party benefit, in other words, is far above all. And they sacrifice any national position and attitude, since we are talking about a matter concerning the Ministry of National Defence, against the party benefit. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Mr President, I believe that today, after Mr Kumucaku's position, the media will once again begin to say what serves the New Democracy and, more generally, opposition in order to continue an issue that has ended for us, which is over. And, in any case, with what confidence we would have had, even if we wanted to continue with it, when yesterday in the Committee on Military Affairs, they broke down Mr Tassoula's proposal as to whether or not we wanted to continue such a debate in the Committee on Military Affairs on the basis of the proposal that has been made. So, in the news field, whether we are talking about classified documents or state secrets, everything is being done to serve the purpose of the party benefit. I do not want to say any more about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u287	I would like you to have your tolerance for the amendments, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u288	Why didn't you talk about them before? Now the meeting's delaying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, 11 minutes were spoken by Mr Kumouchakos, and there was tolerance from the Bureau. I do not want to distinguish your Presidency from that of your predecessor. I don't want to get into that logic. So let me say a few words about the amendments. On Amendment No 1363 and a special number 22 by the Ministry of National Defence, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that the proposed amendment once again highlights the human person who gave the Ministry's political leadership, Panos Kammenos. Understanding the unprecedented economic situation facing all staff members and supporting them, during these difficult years and their families, is tabling this amendment with a general number of 1363 and a specific number of 22.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u290	It's gonna be cutbacks!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u291	Don't rush to talk, Mr. Cryazides, about cutbacks. I'll tell you the opposite happens. It regulates detention and contributions to bodies supervised by the Ministry of National Defence. These are not cuts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u292	And retrospectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u293	It also lays down the maximum amount of one-off financial assistance under Article 4(4) of Law 354/1976 and Article 7(15) of Law 788/1978. In particular, Law 4472/2017 lays down new wage provisions for the members of the Armed Forces and the Port Authority, according to which the level of basic salary is established on the basis of the ranking of members of staff in wage classes and salary scales in accordance with their degree, years of service and location.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u294	You're clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u295	I shall conclude, Mr President. The need to redefine the reservations made and calculated on the salaries of military officials is therefore understood. The proposed amendment adds a paragraph to Article 1 of the above-mentioned Law allowing the adoption of regulatory administrative acts determining the rate of calculation of contributions and reservations in favour of the Military, Navy and Air Equity Funds and their respective special mutual and financial assistance and financial assistance accounts of dividends, the Special Welfare Account of the Hellenic Navy, on the monthly regular earnings of their shareholders.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u296	They'll read it when he shares it. Please don't read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, you do this all the time. Let me finish! I won't talk about the others. I shall just say that we are voting on them. Let me at least finish with her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u298	You put the cart before the horse, that's why I'm telling you. The amendment will be shared.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u299	I asked you a little more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u300	It's not a matter of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u301	I shall therefore refer to the second article, because there have been reactions from colleagues in the New Democracy that these are cutbacks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal matters afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u303	In the second article, therefore, this amendment is increasing - Mr Kyriazides, please listen if you have goodness - the amount of financial assistance paid to any minor child of the families of soldiers who are devastated, killed or disappearing in peacetime. This amount is set at EUR 1000 instead of a basic salary for a captain and at EUR 2000 in the event of death in an orderly service.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u304	Mr Katsiki, the amendment has been supported, you no longer have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u305	Why do I not have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u306	You're done long ago!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u307	What's that supposed to mean, "I'm done"? So, where you want to give the floor selectively, as much time as they want, and I'm done?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u308	I'm speaking Greek!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u309	And I answer Greek. So, why don't we understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Kammenos said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u311	Sit down, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, I beg your pardon, when the ministers say what you hear about an amendment, do you not have the right to support or develop the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u313	We've heard it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u314	You don't hear anything anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u315	Mr. Katsiki, you've taken more than double the time, please. Mr. Saridis has the floor, and I imagine he'll be on the subject. I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u317	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u318	What don't I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u319	You don't have the floor! We have difficulty in understanding Greek today. You have no reason! Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u320	So, can a colleague be able to speak to me and I have no reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u321	Sit down! Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u322	Where are you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u323	I'm in the Chair. Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u324	Yeah, what does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u325	Don't you know what it means to sit down?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u326	Yes, I asked you to speak on personal grounds. I didn't understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u328	We lived this in other years, Mr. President, in other times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u329	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u330	In other years, we lived that. I am entitled by the Rules of Procedure to ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u331	Why do you have the right? No, there was no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u332	You're judging that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u333	Observation of staff, of course, has been here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u334	Can't I explain it to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u336	Not even that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u338	But, just, what I'm saying, that's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u339	Mr President, Minister, in substance rather than communication with the Central Association, as we have said before, it will vote'residents' on the basis of this bill and'residents' as a whole. As far as the amendments are concerned, the Central Association will support the amendment under a general number of 1319, which explores the content of the authorisation to the Minister, so that it can proceed to the definition of the specific tasks and obligations of the special education staff. With regard to the amendment with a general number of 1320, which provides for the setting-up of persons to the public-law legal person of the Acropolis Museum, so that the staff can be transferred there by the Creation Organization of the new Acropolis Museum and contains a partial reference to the legal correction of the recent Law of Law 4481 and the provisions on intellectual property and related rights, we have no choice but to vote'represent', mainly because this amendment has been made necessary due to mismanagement and misrepresentation so far. We will vote in favour of the amendment under the general number 1362 of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, which provides for the extension of the term of office of the board of directors of TEIs. Let's stay a little in the amendment under the general number 1363 of the Ministry of National Defence entitled 'Regulating the matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence'. It is right to think about this amendment. Wages have been reduced, wages have been changed and wages have therefore to be adjusted accordingly both of the kinds and of the level of wage reservations. The question, however, which really arises in relation to the amendment is as follows: What does the amendment prove? Does it show in a clear and indisputable way the size of the economic extermination suffered by the officials of our country's Armed Forces? In order to respond to this, the Minister responsible must first reply to us on whether a study has been carried out, that is to say, if there is any calculation of the results, on the financial implications that this amendment will have for the funds. If the Minister does not answer us on this question, we cannot give our vote in favour and we will remain in 'the present'. Are there any studies on what is going on with the funds? What do they say about reducing the revenues of the funds? We would also like to see a response from the Minister to those who ask, suspect that this reduction in bookings serves to cover other reductions, those made to wages. We will vote against Amendment No 1364, which refers to the individual administrative acts, which have been adopted or are to be adopted in the context of the implementation of contracts concluded by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport between 7-4-2014 and 15-2-2017, without having been carried out before their conclusion by the Commissioner of the Court of Auditors. So these individual administrative acts with this amendment will produce all their legal consequences. As a comment on the amendment with a general number of 1365 on the recruitment procedure for the immediate needs of the Santorini Hospital, I would like to say: Let us see how many more amendments, ladies and gentlemen, will be needed, so that Santorini can finally have a hospital. 'Following' here by the Centroon Association. I close my report with the amendment number 1366 on the organization and operation of the Translation Service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which we will also be voting in favour of following its presentation by the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u340	Thank you in particular, Mr Saridis, and for the respect of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-eight students and students and four educational sessions from the General High School of Aicia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Psarian has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u341	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the presence of the Minister of Education, I would like to say that both symbolically and semantically handed over the keys of the Venice Institute to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Education has departed. Now, however, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has left too. I don't know who's picking up the Institute's keys. I don't see any Minister or State Secretary here to pick up the Venice Institute and take care of it. I am very sorry, because it would be a happy time, even Mr Amanatidis, as long as he was here, and if he remained or now that he was coming back, to say in a demonstration of consensual disposition - as the government has never shown any consensus at all but now demands it - that the proposals of the opposition and the ruling party are accepted, such as the proposals made by Mr Philis, the former Minister, Mr Xydakis and many other fellow SYRIZA Members who have found reasonable objections and disagreements from the opposition parties and those who have supported both the committees and here. I would be happy if I were Mr Amanatidis' place, to say that it is accepted, that the Ministry of Education has the primary role, that the Venice Institute has the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture. Let's not say again what and how the Venice Institute and the history came about, and why in Venice and not in another city, because of the close links and the Venetian influence in Greece and the return of the Greek element to Venice, where it became what happened. Why is it important for the institute to remain and strengthen its role and give it more than what we would like to give him and more of what we have received from him? Because there's almost no, it's almost not working. It should therefore function and work hard, in particular, self-financed - it has proved that it could do so - and let it work. With regard to the three-member committee that made it five members, it was with the five-member representative of the Athens Academy. I do not know personally that the Athens Academy officially stated that it does not want to deal with the Venice Institute. I never heard of that. You said it twice. The representatives of the Athens Academy in the committees were very clear. They didn't say anything like that. I do not know if it is a decision of the Athens Academy this evening that it does not want to be involved and not want to be a representative of the National Research Foundation or of any other large Greek institution and operate the Institute of Venice, such as all national, Greek research institutes in Greece. It would be a happy occasion for you, as a left-wing minister - because I say that as long as you were gone, the Ministry of Education has delivered the keys to the Institute of Venice and you have received them - to say that you accept the participation of a member of the Athens Academy or other large Greek research centre in the five-member committee, that you accept the primary role of education and culture for the Venice Institute and, secondly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs you represent. Then it could be justified to call for a consensual decision to vote together on such a bill, which is symbolic, which is semantic, which has no ideological tensions and strong ideological differences and confrontations and would vote on all sides of this House, or almost all sides of this House, and it would be a good day for consensual proceedings from now on. Unfortunately, you deny it. Even deny the objections and proposals made by both Mr Xydakis and Mr Philis and other colleagues of SYRIZA. We shall therefore vote against the bill, since you do not want to accept anything, since you have made a decision and have no intention of changing it. I understand why you took her. That decision had to be made. Since it has been rejected the third and pharmacopoeia, let us take this - the Venice Institute again - to see what we are going to do with it. As far as the amendments are concerned, we have said - and as Potami and as people - that it is not the best practice to have seven or thirteen or twenty-two amendments unnecessarily or half-footed in a number of bills, when you have the possibility of any bills by area of government responsibility to propose what you want, to propose as vaccines even in bilateral agreements between Greece and Saudi Arabia, let us say, even though they do not go through here, they go elsewhere. I, personally, would like all sides of this House to vote against these amendments. As far as we are concerned, the parliamentary representative, Mr Mavrotas, will say what we will say 'the present', what we will accept and what individual articles we will in detail be placed on the table. We have missed another opportunity, Minister, to find a common place and to agree on one thing that all sides in which they raised objections and showed disagreements were reasonable and could be taken into account and constituted in this bill. We lost another chance. It's okay. He can come another one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u342	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor. Will you speak from your seat?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u343	No, Mr President, from Step one. Ladies and gentlemen, we had proposed this morning - and it was accepted by the Bureau - to talk about the amendments this afternoon. Mr Constantopoulos, on the issues of the draft law, and Mr Psarianos, on the amendments, has expressed himself in relation to the other ministries' amendments, and Mr Mavrotas will be bought. I want to make two points. First of all, the amendment by the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen, is an implementing mechanism - I am not saying that it is wrong - measures that we have voted against. We cannot vote in favour of a mechanism which is being voted against by us, and we are therefore against it. We are voting 'no'. As far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, we will say 'no' to his amendment on translation, because we have not managed to have a thorough debate, which could have unreserved reservations about interventions. For example, the oral interview creates suspicions. So in order to be okay with our principles and our opposition practice, we say 'no'. I told you this morning, Mr Amanatidis, that we have had a attitude towards the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence quite consistent and very different from our overall opposition behaviour. And you are the most good witness in this respect, because you are a member of the ERCF and you have this possibility for years now, as I think you have been a State Secretary since the summer of 2015. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u345	So there is a good time that we have worked together at the National Foreign Policy Council and you have heard not only of the Democratic Incorporation and the Potami, but of all the parties, like the New Democracy, about how we operate within the EEPC. We therefore defend common principles in our foreign policy and in today's draft law, I think we have had a very creative attitude in plenary. However, I would like to protest before you - you are a State Secretary to this Ministry - for conduct against me of the Foreign Minister. I protest from the Chamber of Parliament. I'm offended. Because I've known him for many years, really, I'm curious at the beginning about his behavior. Personally and against me yesterday's announcements are, in fact, incomprehensible. I would like you to keep in mind, Minister, this: the Prime Minister from this step on Monday said - I repeat what you said, Mr Kumucaco - that there is some evidence he submitted here asking, of course, about 2016, about the functioning of our ambassador there. Because, in fact, the document that he invoked and held in his hand is classified as special handling and top secret or classified as he said, he called on the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups to go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and see it. Yesterday we had a meeting to see how we would continue on the Saudi issue, because it did not end here. We were with Mrs. Gennamas and she asked me to go on her behalf to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and see the documents that the Prime Minister told us. Please note that I am a parliamentary representative - who knows the Rules of Procedure of the House, knows that I am replacing the President of the parliamentary group, so is Mr Xydakis and everyone who has this role - and at the same time I am a member of the ETUC. I haven't been a State Secretary for two years in this ministry. I went and asked for someone from the Minister's diplomatic office. I went modestly, normally to the doorman, as I know how to respect the Greek authorities. An employee from the Minister's diplomatic office, very noble, told me that he had no relevant information and order. That's right. I, of course, then, as a politician, protested with my announcement and criticised. I have received one, indeed, inadmissible criticism of our parliamentary data, by letter from Mr Kotzias abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u346	Not just you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u347	And you, Mr. Kumucako. The two of us have been mentioned the worst. I didn't do more than the Prime Minister asked. In fact, some points in the communication are outside the limits of human relations. I don't like them. But the problem remains. Ladies and gentlemen, today, in order to overcome all of these really unprecedented, we have done with Mrs Genuine Operational Anti-Population Movements towards bureaucracy. He gave a specific mandate to me - as to you your President, Mr Kumucako - saying: "As President of the Democratic Association Group, I empower our Parliamentary Representative and Member of the National Foreign Policy Council, Mr Andreas Loverdos, to appear before the relevant departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Parliament and of any other authority and institution in order to be aware of the classified documents that the Prime Minister told the House at the plenary session of 27 November 2017". I submit it, along with my accompanying letter. That's where we're going. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I conclude by saying this: because I was threatened by the Minister again with announcements by reminding me of articles in the Criminal Code and other brilliant provisions, about the responsibilities of the person who publishes texts, etc. etc. - of course, man was ignoring the parliamentary procedure that I had used - I was curious. But any misunderstanding has come to my mind, because I thought the behaviour was paradoxical, from the documents that Mr Kammenos submitted to plenary on Monday. I took them one by one, Minister, and I saw that on February 27, 2017, before the meeting of the KYSEA that made the decision to sign this so-called transnational agreement, the members of the KYSEA all knew that there was Papadopoulos. And this document was tabled by Mr Kammens on Monday in the House. I'm putting it back in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For I am assembling the document tabled by Mr Kammenos, with the signature of the President-in-Office here, in his introduction to the Staff Regulations - which I also submit, it is not confidential - where at the last point it says: 'The document which he has tabled and which, as a plan, went to the Staff Regulations and became a text of a contract which was due to be signed'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Kotzias knew about this. That's why he's threatening us with persecution. That's why it devours us every day. But, Minister, you are here, and please very much carry this...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u348	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u349	I shall conclude, Mr President. I beg your pardon very much, you are not now informed, possibly, and it is not your fault. However, this morning the President - and I left the Minutes to your colleagues to give them to me - dedicated me to the other representatives of six plus three minutes totalling nine for our denology. I won't need them. I just wanted to close with a phrase. I would ask you, please, to inform all four Ministers of the Ministry that you have responsible opposition to you. You are witnesses, I say again, as members of the ETUC and you, are our attitude. But you must tell him that the immoral behaviour of officials who have played their part and who have a course in Greek politics should think about it twice. And because he's abroad, let's come over here and see you at the National Representation. Announcements of that character can't work. And I return a word to him for word, what he has said all these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u350	Thank you. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Today we have missed an opportunity through a synthetic process that we could have done, a vote in many respects of the bill on the Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies in Venice. With regard to what the Minister said earlier, regarding the attitude of the Athens Academy that he does not want to participate in the Institute of Venice, I have here in essence Mr Delivoria's testimony - at the hearing of the bodies, anywhere, but nowhere, he does mention as a representative of the Academy that they wanted to be withdrawn from the Institute of Venice. In fact, it says: "The conclusion you would conclude is that the withdrawal of this draft law and the creation of a new committee..." etc., that is, it was clearly opposite. Our main objections are to do with the purposes, as mentioned by the legislative improvements that the research has left. The second part is about the administration, where there is no scientific board, but then the organization will be essentially formed. This is something that has neither timelines nor nothing. The President's choice is something in which we would like more academic procedures to be followed. In general, we would like the role of the Institute of Venice, to be more focused on the academic track and less on the diplomatic track. I think that many colleagues from SYRIZA wanted this, as I understood from the speeches. We had the same argument, but with a different vote at the end because I imagine paradox patriotism. Generally speaking, I think a chance has been lost today to achieve greater shocks. I hope we don't find these things in front of us, from this bill we're voting on today. With regard to the amendments because it was said that I would say a few things, I mentioned in my speech on the Ministry of Education's amendments to the CETA, with the Steering Committee on Experimental Schools. Unfortunately, it was not the Minister of Education to listen to these as for INEDIBIM. We will be negative in the amendments and will vote only'residences' in this particular Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u352	Thank you too, Mr Mavrota. Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened carefully to colleagues' remarks on the course of the debate and the drafting of this bill. I agree with several of the analyses and comments. I shall disagree with the final assessment. I think in several ways, we have achieved convergence and a composition. Many of the comments and contributions made by scientific bodies and colleagues from all groups were taken into account by the Minister in the legislative initiative. We may not have reached the optimism of a parliamentary procedure, the best result and the best procedure. But I think that, with the contributions of colleagues from the rest of the parties and the spiritual and political contributions of many of the SYRIZA colleagues, we have formed a bill, for which I can say that we are not currently ashamed. We are legislating under the shadow of great ancestors and politicians and scientists for this institution, but at very great symbolic weight, and I think we are also legislating with the breath of the coming generations. I have two final remarks to the Minister, which many Members have said from the Step, to set a time limit for pensioning, training the organization to take flesh and bone. Certainly it takes a period of time, to establish the supervisory authority and to elect the scientific president, in a reasonable time for the Minister to include it, to have an organisation. The Institute in 2016 and 2017 is essentially inseparable. It's going through a lot of crisis. In this there are responsibilities and administrative responsibilities for all, and for those who have appointed and for those who oversee it. With this legislative initiative we are going to treat the insolence of the last period, which had taken place before in the 1980s. Let us not let the Institute, once the law has been published in the Official Journal of the Government and the Supervisory Committee has been established, spend time without having a body, without having a characteristic regulation, without any rules of the Rules of Procedure, of the Rules of Procedure and of the Rules of Procedure. There are little predictions within the law, so one of the least predictions is that. The second point is this. With a clarification, the Scientific Council, which assists the President in his duties and in selecting the scholars, must have the same characteristics as the Committee's rapporteur's, i.e. the body of the selection boards, first and second grades, not indefinitely a Scientific Council. A chemist cannot be a scientific board at a Institute of Byzantine Studies. These two, I think, are two small last touches. Some steps have been taken. I hope in other such legislation of great symbolic nature that we have the opportunity to send a message to the Greek people and to the voters of every party that we are legislating for the common good and not for small-party self-interests. Today we have approached it and will come closer to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, too. I have two announcements to make to this House: The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of the State Budget for the financial year 2018’. Also, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2013, "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as applicable: First, on 17 November 2017, criminal proceedings concerning the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paulo Polakis. Second, on 16 November 2017, criminal court case regarding the Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. And we'll hang up with the Minister. Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u355	Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I consider it to be a fruitful process that took place in both the committees and during the plenary, but also throughout the past year, when the idea was first taken over, because it had to be implemented once, of changing the legislative framework for the Venice Institute - that is, I have been talking since spring 2016 - I think a lot of things have been said. These are matters in which we have agreed on other things, elsewhere they were better clarified, elsewhere the clarifications were given through all committee procedures. I will never get into what I have said, that is, how the procedure was done, what was not done, and so on. However, I think that there was no sign of it. I believe that it no longer makes sense to repeat that the Institute belongs first of all to the Greek people to serve the cause, the same purpose as it had in 1951 when it was founded and we do not change it to a party. What has been said, Mr Matutes, is that the word'research' came out, it was what we proposed to change. Because we wanted no reflection - we also asked the community and everywhere - we maintained exactly what the 1951 law says, which does not have that word. I didn't make a single party, after you told me there could be a differentiation and you told me "what you guys think, what others think" etc. I didn't make anything so there wouldn't be any misunderstandings. It's exactly the same. That is why there is no word'research' there. Understand? That's why. I'm explaining it to you, so you know I didn't take it off after that. That's exactly what the 1951 law says. With regard to the costs, I would like to say the following. The institute costs the Greek state. Until then, there are four employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who are at the Institute of Venice and are paid for by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This legislation for the first time enters an employee from the Ministry of Education and two from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So it's costing the Greek state. It's not that it's costless and it's just self-financed. There was help. In relation to whether it will not be able to respond once and then what will happen, there is provision within the law. Because I heard it and we've taken it into consideration. There is a means of predicting, getting state sponsorship from the Greek state. There's this prediction. We're not cutting that off. We are not saying, 'Not you, you are this and we are done, do what you want'. There is provision within the law, because there is funding from the Greek state too. I believe that the key to the positions that have been taken, which have been read twice - and I believe that it is also a lack of arguments, to keep saying about Mrs Arveler - that is, the words - a key to Mrs Arveler's statements are 'as I have heard'. The people who informed her, I think they gave her bad information. I'd like to read what the bill is like if he wants us to talk about it. I think the key is the words 'as I have heard'. The people who told her, they didn't tell her well. Because, in fact, neither the keys of the institute want nor anyone else wants them, nor are they in one ministry or another. It is the Greek Government, which, for the first time, puts the foundations. I'm proud. I think we haven't missed a chance. There is a need for cooperation between all the parties involved, so that this institute can continue its splendid course in the previous period. I would also like to thank my colleagues here and the Greek Orthodox Community of Venice and all those who participated in this dialogue and the ambassadors and the consuls and the officials from the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for getting this far. As far as - and I am going to close with this, Mr President - on both points, I cannot accept legislation now. As a statement, however, Minister here in this House, I say that, with the end of the quarter that we put for the President and the institutions, in six months' time, we are committed as a government, to the end of the regulation. I can't do it right now. If it's so important, we can legislate later. Also for the scientific board, yes, we agree with what Mr. Xydakis said. Finally, I shall refer to three things. I understand that the Parliamentary Representatives - and Mr Kumoutsakos and Mr Lovertos - tried to respond to what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs replied to and, in total, the government in a Monday's debate, the results of which stopped a paraphilology and a symptom of Officerial Response. The answers were given. Trying again is a reheated food, which no longer passes on to the world. As far as some personal things are concerned, let's have some patience, and the Minister will come, you'll tell them. However, the fact that both Mr Loverdos and Mr Kumoutsakos have brought the special mandate here to see the documents, I think it is not an act of bureaucracy. It is an act of substance, because on such issues it is good to observe the procedures, because it is not a type. It's both a substance. It's not paperwork. It's a matter of substance and you understand that. I would also like to reply to Mr Kalafatis, who has asked me to pass on to Mr Kotzias, but in the press release he says that he has asked me to reply, what he said or what the Mayor of Thessaloniki did not say. As I have said, after even asking me for a press release - it is not here - it would be better for the mayor to say that he has done a manoeuvre, but then he has undone it and finished it. He's done a little hard work, and I think he's done it several times, but then he's blown up. The Mayor of Thessaloniki did the same. All the other things about suspects and suspects of behaviour I don't think they're actually standing. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I think I'm quite responsible. I have made an effort as acknowledged, and I thank all the Members and parties here in this House for having made a synthetic effort, and that is what we know about legislating. I would call on you, this very climate that has been expressed to go ahead with the Venice Institute, to express itself in practice, because the laws are also made for people and people are implementing them and they will be the ones that will bring their effectiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u359	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u365	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u367	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u368	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u374	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u377	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u379	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u381	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u382	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u383	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u386	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u388	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u392	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u394	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u396	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u401	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u410	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u415	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u419	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u424	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u426	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u428	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u432	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u437	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u439	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u440	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u442	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u446	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u448	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u454	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u455	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u457	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u460	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u463	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u464	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u466	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u473	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u475	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u478	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u482	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1362 and a special number of 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u485	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u487	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u491	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1362 and a special 21 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1363 and a special number 22 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u494	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u495	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u496	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u498	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u500	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1363 and a special 22 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1364 and a special number of 23?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u509	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1364 and a special 23 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1365 and a special number of 24?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u518	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1365 and a special 24 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1366 and a special number of 25?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u523	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u527	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1366 and a special 25 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u536	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Greek Institute of Byzantine Studies and Post-Byzantine Studies and other provisions" was accepted in principle and in articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u545	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Greek Institute of Byzantine Studies and Post-Byzantine Studies and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u546	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u547	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Tuesday 17 October 2017 and Wednesday 18 October 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u548	The minutes of Tuesday 17 October 2017 and Wednesday 18 October 2017 were therefore ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-29-S1-commons.u549	With the consent of the House at 18.43 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 30 November 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) applications for waiver of immunity of Members, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
