ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 11-4-2017, PP's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Tuesday, 4 April 2017, as regards the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Amendments to the provisions of forestry legislation and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 20 April 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the auctioning by EFKA, of the real estate of "AFRIC CONFERENCE DADECANOU". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health about the further weakening of the Centre for Health of the Municipality of Sparta. 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the violation of equality in pan-Hellenic exams and the refusal to establish foreign-language departments at the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. 4. The Question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Is the national economy ready for a possible collapse of the euro area?". 5. The question by No. 709/10-4-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Bardalis, Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Rural Development, concerning the payment of tobacco producers and employees of the company "KAPNIKI MICHAIDIS S.A." in Kilkis. 6. The question by No. 701/6-4-2017 of the Central Association of Central and Eastern Europe, Mr. Theodoras Megalonou, Minister for Health, concerning the closure of the local hospitals "House and Haravy" from the 2nd Health Area of Attica. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 707/10-4-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of "First Camp Kordas: Showing the area in an ultra-local park". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis on the delay in the procedures for the application of sub-measure 6.1 “Installation of Young Farmers”. 3. The Question No 702-6-6-4-2017 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the connection between Agrinio and Ionian Road and the reconstruction of the old national road of Agrinio. 4. The Question No 705/6-6-4-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Finance regarding the appointment of a judge in the administration of the Supreme Emigrations. 5. The question by No. 710/10-4-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the problems of the employees of the supermarket "AFOI KARYPIDIS S.A.". 6. The Question No 676/31-3-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the retention of part of the OPEKEPE grants due to a failure to pay a contribution to the General Organisation for Improvements (OECD). 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 648/24-3-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Health, concerning the deliberate improper fulfilment of a covenant that provides for the establishment of an oncological clinic in Chalkida. 8. The Question No 556-6-3-2017 by Congressman of Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the taking over by the Greek State of the outstanding loan contract of the Athens Concert Hall (OMMA). 9. The question by No. 402/27-1-2017, by MEP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 446/18-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the serious problems faced by farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Discussion and decision in accordance with Article 68(2) of the Constitution and Article 144e. of the Rules of Procedure of the House: a. On the proposal put forward by the President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, and the Members of his party and the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group of Independents, Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, and the MPs of his party, to set up a Committee of Inquiry into health scandals in 1997-2014; and b) The proposal put forward by the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and the Members of his party, to set up a Committee of Inquiry into the management and expenditure of public health from 1996 until today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u2	According to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Prime Minister has the right to speak for twenty minutes, the Chief of Officer's Citizenship right to speak for twenty minutes and the other Chiefs from fifteen minutes. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, will speak for 10 minutes and the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Paul Paulakis, and the Minister for 10 minutes. Parliamentary representatives will speak for twelve minutes. Mr. Christos Mantas, on behalf of SYRIZA, Mr. Nikolaos Dendias on behalf of the New Democracy, Mr. Andreas Loverdos on behalf of the Democratic Asylum of PASOK - DIMAR, Mr. George Germenis on behalf of the Golden Dawn, for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, for the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, for the Association of Centres Mr. Marios Georgiadis and for the River Mr. Georgios Amyras. List of speakers as a priority. Mr. Antonios Balomenis for 10 minutes, Mr.Athanasios Papachristopoulos for 10 minutes - are the ones who submitted the proposal from SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks respectively - Mrs. Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou for 10 minutes, Mrs. Friday (Egyi) Christophilopoulos for 10 minutes, Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris for 10 minutes, Mr. George Lambroulis for 10 minutes, Mrs. Theodora Megalokonomou for 10 minutes, Mr. George Mavrotis for 10 minutes and Mr. Dimitrios Koutsis for 10 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the parties have already submitted statements of speakers and a single list of speakers has been drawn up by the service in proportion to the parliamentary power of the parties, as has been applied by parliamentary practice in the past. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will be set, as I have said before, in accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, while the Ministers with a proposal from the Bureau will speak for 10 minutes and the parliamentary representatives will speak for 12 minutes. This House is asking: is the proposal accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u3	Time for speakers you have not said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u4	The time for the speakers is as much as the Rules of Procedure. You, Mr. Mada, would you like more details?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u5	For the speakers. Is it five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u6	Yeah. As regards the organisation of the debate, the proposal is to start with a first cycle of nine speakers, one from each parliamentary group and an independent MEP. The first will be the Member of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, the second Member of the Group of the Independent Greeks - the names we have said before - who have tabled the proposal to set up the committee and then the Member of the New Democracy. Of course, from there on, each Member is given the floor for ten minutes without the right to secondary education. That's the Rules of Procedure. If you want, I can read to you the names of the MPs who have declared that they will speak,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u7	You don't have to, Mr. President. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u8	...but from what it looks like, you don't have to. Does this House therefore ask: is there any counter-proposal on the proposal or can we proceed properly?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u9	It is, therefore, accepted. I say this so that no further proposals will come. The proposal, therefore, was unanimously accepted by Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Kegeroglu, do you want the floor on what subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u12	It is typical, but because you said that two proposals were tabled, I would like to say that three proposals have been tabled, but under the Rules of Procedure, because of the number of signatures, the proposal of the Democratic Independence is not formally introduced into plenary. That is all I wanted to say about the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u13	Of course you're right and you're recorded in the Minutes. We're going straight to the speakers. Please, Mr Balomannakis, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to set up the Committee of Inquiry which we have tabled is consistent with the government's stated intention and commitment to investigate and fight corruption in all areas of public life, bringing to light all cases of illegality, as soon as possible. It is, at the same time, also a key political project of SYRIZA, having for this reason taken a clear political mandate from the Greek people. Our proposal is structured in three main axes, which will then be analysed by the speakers who will represent the proposers. First, the pharmacy expenditure and the operating costs of hospitals over the last decade. The numbers are spectacular. It is 2 billion in 2000, 4 billion in 2004, 17.5 billion in 2007 and this without an intermediate population increase, without a spectacular improvement in health services conditions, without any emergency, without any natural disaster or epidemic. What happened? The well-known overvaluation of medicines and medical devices.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u15	Please be quiet, because the speaker doesn't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u16	They had reached up to 600% of the prices of these species in the European countries. Conscientiously, too, either no reliable evaluation mechanism was created or those mechanisms created were mutated so that they could not play the role for which they had been set up. There was no mechanism for negotiating acceptable prices, no e-government tools were used, no expenditure was systematically monitored or costs controlled. This practice, ladies and gentlemen, could not have prevailed, become a general rule if it did not have the high coverage of the relevant health leaders. That must be clear. It must also be clear that this practice was beyond criminality, because in addition to the public expenditure that has been launched, it has led to overcompensation for the public, the insurance funds, it has led to spectacular and non-necessary increases in hospital costs and, of course, - and this is the issue - it has enriched a closed number of people with hatreds and over-profits through the peculiarisation of this public good. The second axis of control is the way in which the legal persons governed by public law and the supervised legal persons in the field of health are managed. Here, too, there are strong indications that non-transparency in management was the rule. We can mention the inadequacy of their assets, which have always been problematic, commissions, material and work charges, recruitment of staff, the conclusion of a triangular type of transactions with companies and suppliers, service contracts, of course advertising expenditure, and all of this in a veil of opacity that was usually swept through - usually - partitionally appointed administrations. Let us mention that in December 2016, management of the CEDEFOP was carried out by the Secretariat-General of Public Revenue, from which, in fact, long-term corruption occurred. Other investigations in 2010, 2011, 2012, have also resulted in the hearing being referred to a sufficient number of persons with a misdemeanor. The third axis of our proposal is to investigate suspicious transactions of natural persons, which have resulted in either the illegal enrichment of their own and specific groups of recipients or a clear damage to health and insurers' assets. This is where the case of 'Dynan' prevails. You will hear the description from a colleague in detail. There are also cases where the traces of loans and aid have been lost and, of course, many cases of small and large-scale funding have been lost. The environment in which health services must be provided, ladies and gentlemen, must be fully transparent, must be an environment of equality, equal opportunities, qualitatively upgraded, with emphasis on the care of the patient. Today the ESS is being held up despite the gradual conscious depreciation steps, for which historically accountable are, in fact, the political forces that have ruled the country over the last forty years. The attempt to regenerate the public health care system, which is under way, necessarily presupposes its reassurance, disclosure and, of course, the collapsing of cases that are revealed to undermine the public health system so many years. This is the only and sole purpose of the Committee of Inquiry. We can assure you that there are no other purposes. We are seeking to highlight the weaknesses of the system its dark aspects and relations with the big and smaller economic interests, to uncover the complexity and those interests that are necessarily intertwined with strong political and economic factors, sometimes uncovered trial of power and sometimes overshadowed so much and so diligently, hoping not to discover them. Today the opposition asks: 'Why now?' We also have to answer that question. And we say that it is an awkward accusation, since it does not tell us what we should do with so many reports, with so many documents, with so many findings, with so many external and international agencies recording the level of transparency. The report by the Ombudsman, the report by International Transparency, the European study on corruption, private - commissioned or not - what should we do all of this? Shall we put them in the drawer? Is that the New Democracy proposal? Or should we do what this party did, which has, in fact, produced a report which recorded corruption in its day and which was found in a drawer and left us with the question of what feasibility it had and why none of the findings were able to effectively mobilise any corrective mechanism? We, ladies and gentlemen, do not start biased against people until - and we stress 'and whether' - prove what is being testified to them on a case-by-case basis. But we start by knowing that for corruption phenomena, the old political system is accountable. It is a knowledge of deep and very well recorded in collective consciousness. We are therefore replying to the New Democracy and to anyone else who raises this issue about the timescale of the committee of inquiry as follows: precisely because we are dealing with the situation that we have been inherited as a single system of structured and hierarchical in order to exploit public resources for the benefit of a closed number of people, we are delimited with great clarity to it. The government stands hostile to this system. Not only can it not be part of it, not only can it be tolerated as a continuation of it, but precisely the opposite is true. It does not hide its intention to overthrow it, to reform it deeply, by concentrating the illegality and putting in place a just, democratic, philosophical, transparent health system. Proof of this rivalry with the old system that we want to clean up is the fact that for the first time in post-cultural history a health committee is set up. That is why we cannot, ladies and gentlemen, support the New Democracy's proposal on the length of transparency and not, of course, on fear. The current leadership of the Ministry of Health has nothing to fear, any shadow, any suspicion of connection with economic interests, but we stand negative on this proposal just from a political choice. The encouragement 'all together' may now seem innocent or 'confidential' but sends the wrong political message. It is inappropriate for the resolution efforts that this government has shown itself to do. He's trying to blur the waters. Ladies and gentlemen - and we must say this - it is not a matter of censorship. No Member of Parliament who is taking part in the committee of inquiry will be prevented from proposing specific matters if he thinks they are of interest. A final judge on the scope and seriousness of each proposal is, of course, the Greek people, who will be watching. I would also like to say that some citizens may be indifferent to the shoulders in listening to another examination. The citizen with so much suffering that he can really feel - seeing that he and he are always behind scandals - humiliated and disappointed. This feeling is exacerbated by the malfunctions of the judiciary, by Article 86 of the Constitution, which must be reformed quickly - and it will be reformed - as the government has committed itself. We can assure that, as a majority, we will do everything in our power to keep nothing hidden, with objectivity, impartiality and persistence in the discovery of truth. This insistence will be our guide and we would really like to see from all the political forces an in-depth approach to research. We would like to see, from the mass media, an objective reproduction of what is happening there and not a wall of silence as was the case in the recent committee of inquiry. We are committed that no one and nothing can bend us. We'll keep and keep our promise to the end. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a second more. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel obliged to say that at this very important meeting we are holding today, I think we should pay tribute to one category of our fellow citizens, of our staff. They've been the ones who've kept the ESS up all these years. They are all those who have fought hard personal dignity, those who prove how important it is to be a doctor, a nurse, a man at the same time. And it is those who have not been subject to the temptation of the "formal" forms of payment, as the "folder" is now called the latest. We feel our obligation to say this because those who have fought, denounced, clashed with the beasts of interests must really honor them and remember that they are these people just who put them with the tigers and did not let the "daughters" eat them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor on behalf of the Independent Greeks. According to the Rules of Procedure, the parties who have made the proposal to set up the Committee of Inquiry have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I hear these days saying: “Why by 2015? Clear sky lightnings are not afraid’, etc. I happen to be a nourishment of the health area and indeed of the public. I did not say that I am the absolute knowledge of what is happening to public health, but I think a little knowledge should have it. I've been one of those people I've been yelling at for twenty-five years, for what I'm about to tell you. In beds in intensive care units there is a huge shortage. Ten people are asking for trouble. In order to find a bed, you have to know the Prime Minister, and it's not because the EAW regulates them. I'm just gonna talk to numbers. This government received four hundred thirty - seven beds in the units. Today and not today, but two months ago they were sixty - eight and are now certain that at the end of June they will operate around sixty - seventy beds. Is the problem solved? Oh, no. It's an attempt that's been made for the first time, when for years these have been blank. Two. When it received on 31-12-2015, the deficit was about 935 million, or close to one billion. This government delivers on 31-12-2016 a surplus for the first time after many years about 35 million. Third. I am one of them - forgive me the expression - that I have been screaming for years, to stop this disgrace in the emergency days, the days that the hospitals have been on guard. And I have said this: To stop the disgrace, "I have contacted him with the manager, I take the suitcase, the clinic doctors are preparing and putting me in." It has been legislation for the first time by this government as a special emergency unit, what is being done in all the countries of the European Union, where the director is independent and whether you are afflicted or I don't know what, you will be in if you need to get in. Now that's what happened. Fourth. There was an almost useless mechanism for the ambulances of the EKA. For the first time this competition proceeded, and ninety new cars of the EKP are data. I don't want to say the details of the 4X4 on the various islands from here and there. I could give you some details. Five. What about the "Facebook"? I am one of those who makes strict criticisms, too, of the'mail', which is why I am delighted to hear a proposal which I at least make for more than twenty-five years. We are the only country in the European Union that is doing this. This is where I make it clear that the vast majority of doctors have nothing to do with it. Some doctors still have conscience even with the crisis. Did you read the proposal made by the Minister of Health yesterday or the day before yesterday from Crete? Read it carefully. He once dared a patient who was happy with a hospital in the Netherlands to give the doctor money and is still being taken to the courts in the Netherlands. Let me say that I've been one of the people I've been screaming for twenty-two years, that the aerospace cannot leave Lero and go to Athens. There should be a helicopter on a central island taking the patient and organizing a hospital downtown. Twenty-five years I've called it. So there is such a helicopter in Syros for those in need. The islanders know. For those who don't know, there's such a military helicopter coming in for an aerospace in Lesvos. I don't do commercials. I answer the question, because if I were a Minister of Health and the Government said to me "a committee of inquiry on what has happened since 2015" I would be obliged to submit my resignation. We're just speaking Greek. None of you prevent any of you, if you have any evidence and can document them, put them on for what happened before 1997 and after 2015. This is my answer to this rumour that the government was supposed to be afraid. I don't think he has anything to fear at all. I have for the last time the fact that for the first time millions of citizens are being served uninsured, and I had them in my pounds saying: "Doctor, I don't have a hundred," "I want to give the doctor but I don't have a hundred" and they postponed their surgery because they were uninsured. That's what happened these days. I come to today's subject. That is my answer as to why I say no after 2015. I repeat, whoever has evidence doesn't stop him from putting them down in this committee of inquiry. The presumption of innocence exists for them and for everyone else. That is the point of this process, without - I say again - re-changing. And I come to the three issues which we need to see very carefully. I want to start with the CDC. I am paying attention to the fact that reference has already been made to justice for the felony of fraud. I say it because some - another rumour - have invented the examinations to close the eyes of the world for what is suffering. Objection. Yeah? Is that a convincing argument? So, listen up. At the moment, the former Director-General has already referred to fraud justice - I am not saying names - and sixteen members of the former administration for infidelity on the grounds of scandalous advertising expenditure on incidents, such as the usual seasonal flu, on communicable and other diseases such as cancer, on the advertising of generic drugs that do not fall under any circumstances within the competence of the CEDEFOP, and in particular on the amounts allocated to SMEs, when all campaigns could be made free of charge as social messages. I don't want to say any more. I'm one of those people who think we should be very careful. But we need to know this money that has been spent on CEDEFOP - and that is a great deal unfortunately - whether they have been properly spent or not. Secondly, I would like to remind you that at some point I was working in the 'Evangelism'. He was clearing the department. Almost everyone left for leisure trips. That's what I said. There was a conference in America with all paid. They took the families, they took friends. He was clearing the hospital. For years this situation has been sitting around and looking at them. I have the honour to say I never went on such a trip. I'm sorry to bless my beards. It was all paid. I don't understand why they're paid. And even those who went, they brought back paper that they are qualified for, for attending the conference such as this. While we worked like dogs back, we didn't have those qualifications, and the promotions were hard after that story. I just want here to say the following. This company, NoVARTIS, is a colossal unbelievable. For those who have no idea, I tell them that twenty-one years ago the CIBA-GEIGY and SANDOZ were merged. He became this dreadful colossus, who has more than eighteen thousand employees all over the world. It provides more than a hundred fifty countries. He's paid too much money in court decisions. I wouldn't want to tire you right now. I just want to stay in a post of the newspaper "THE VIMA". I would like to believe that you do not think that "THE VIMA" is a newspaper that can be in favour of the government, for SYRIZA nor for the Independent Greeks. It is written by the good journalist, Yanna Papadakou, a conclusion about "NOVARTIS" who stayed in the drawer. He says a lot here. He is already involved by the FBI, a special committee. In America, you know, there's still strictness. In his honor, the post positively involves not a former Minister of the New Democracy, who himself has denounced that something strange was happening with this company. I don't want to say any details. That's the job of the committee. And I end with the third theme of today's debate, which is Henry Dynan. I read out self-sufficiently: "It must be done with liability and any sanctions imposed on all those who managed Henry Dunn" in both administrations and political heads, whose decisions led the nursing institution to bankruptcy and hence to the auction." This is what the Secretary-General for Transparency of Human Rights of the Ministry of Justice, George Sourlas, asks. George Surlas, for those who do not remember, was the one who recommended in 1992 as Minister of Health, the adoption of the law establishing and operating Henry Dunan. George Sourlas writes a lot. And for those who don't remember, I'll remind you of you. He was appointed by his party, first to raise the issue of Koskotas's George many years ago. He was isolated for this story. And there's also a tangible proof that honest politicians exist in all the parties. I conclude by saying: there is no re-changing. The argument that we discovered these to close our eyes crumbles with what I'm saying to you. I would like to believe that there will always be a serious job in the committee of inquiry with respect for the presumption of the innocence of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Mrs Ahmakopoulou has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, things are simple. We're here today for a reason. And the reason is this: because the government is now falling apart, it is doing what it always does. He's playing games. And today is nothing but an impression game, which comes to cover what has shown a recent survey, namely that nine out of ten Greeks believe that the country is moving in the wrong direction. 70% believes the evaluation is not closed, because the government is afraid of the political costs that the evaluation will have when it closes. 60% says you're doing everything for your chair, half of which are people who voted for SYRIZA in the elections. I assume that the rest of the people who are half or are somewhere appointed by you or are ashamed to say it, because all of Greece has understood what this poll shows, which, to say so briefly, says you are also unrelated and opportunistic. But I will comment on you having courage too. The representative of the government partner has chosen today to say how excellent the work of the Government in the field of health is, in particular, in the emergency, when we have just mourned two victims in Halkidiki, because they have waited for them to go to the emergency services. So try to find a way now, politically serve the results of the second evaluation. And the Members of the government majority must go today, Wednesday, Big Week, in their constituencies - and I, as you know, have been a Member of the province, I know very well what that means - and defend what you have brought or are preparing to bring. Until now they had pleasant things to say: "The program of Thessaloniki. We will give the thirteenth pension.' After other pleasant things: "Ah we fought, but the parallel program will be what will make you not hurt when we exaggerate you when your shops are closed, when the free professionals close their blocks." The parallel program! Then you announced to us that growth is coming, that ELSTAT's data came out. Then you said it was the end of austerity. Well now you know very well that when you return from Easter holidays, you will have to come in here to raise your hand and vote 'yes' to everything. And what you are going to vote on will be EUR 3.6 billion extra, pension cut, tax reduction. All the red lines that this government had have been imprisoned. And while you serve the heroic negotiation, the reality is that the only thing you do is negotiate with your components. Perhaps that's why I read in your conference that the fifty-three who went out to say "no we are not asking for elections..."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u21	I don't know what it was. Anyway. Whatever it was. Your Central Committee. Fifty-three, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u22	Officer. Central Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u23	I'm not pretending to know SYRIZA's inner and insiders. I'm on the other side of the line. That's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u24	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u25	So the fifty-three say that they are not asking for elections, but that there is a need for a left-hand turn to reconnect SYRIZA to many society and radical social movements. I assume that the society of many is the one that rejoices when duty-free is reduced, the society of many is the one that rejoices when you cut pensions! Reconnect with the many society. I don't know how you're gonna do this. But I know that when you go to your constituencies, your new communication account is the countermeasures. What are the countermeasures? I put aside that we don't know what it is, we don't know who it is, we don't know how it will be. I speak on the basis of common sense. For the countermeasures you say that they will have a neutral financial effect of zero. That sounds heavy. Why are you being asked for measures if they have a zero budgetary effect? Did they lose their minds? If the result is zero, why would you take it? Don't take them. In any case, because the countermeasures are not convinced, we are here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u26	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, there is too much noise in the Chamber. Is that all I'm bothered by?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u28	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u29	Examination is the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u30	The point is that because the countermeasures are not convinced, the only countermeasure you have is to do commissions of inquiry, because you are playing a game of political diversion again. That's the point. "Pardon in health", if you go to the cafeteria, it's more catchy than the countermeasure, or "I'll cut your pension and reduce the tax-free." That is the point, because you have a question, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority. So we have come to see the Health Committee today. It is the only countermeasure you have to offer to the Greek people for your grand and frightful failure in the matter of negotiation. Art and spectacle. You don't share bread and we have spectacles. So you hope - and I suspect that this will be the case - that the channels will play Mr Polakis, who has chosen the extremely communication Vice-President of the New Democracy Mr Georgiadis to oppose him. You think you're going to tell us some kind of health vein, so people won't talk about cutting off his pensions and reducing your tax-free. I predict that you will be treated differently in your constituencies. So after two years, did you discover what? You discovered the waste - I read from your proposal - the non-transparent management and discovered the "imeterocracy" in recruitment. It seems the waste was what you were interested in when - I'm talking about your days at the Ministry of Health - you abolished prescribing on the basis of the active substance. The clawback has escaped all controls while supposed to be phased out. And it is predicted that the hospital and the outside hospital may reach $1 billion. The negotiating committee has done nothing that it should do to obtain innovative medicines at a lower cost. In 2015, no price sheet was issued, as provided by the Act. You do all because you are interested in waste, limiting waste and transparency! And here, frankly, it's another manifestation of sorrow. And we don't care that the S.T.E. He said it was illegal that you removed the hospital administrations! You passed that in the shower! I'm telling you about the criteria against 'immigration', with which you have placed the managers of hospitals. I shall mention a few examples. Trikala Hospital, member of the SYRIZA Health Sector Secretariat. Look at that coincidence. Kozani, candidate Kozani MEP with SYRIZA. Look at that coincidence. Katerina Hospital second in place of Mr. Kammenos's list in Pieria. That's another coincidence! Is that the 'temporary rule' and its fight? Artas Hospital, friend and applauder of Mrs. Gerovas' jealousy. So that's decency in your eyes. That is why you brought in an examination, to see the 'imagerity'. So you ask for three things. Investigation by the ERIC of pharmacy expenditure and supplies and by Henry Dunnan. Ladies and gentlemen, I was not a Minister of Health, I am not a doctor, I am not a pharmacist, but I will speak again on the basis of common sense. We agree with 'all in light'. I don't want there to be any shadow in this. It is not what you want, however, because we in our own examination are expanding the scope that we are asking for to be explored and thematically and in time. So why - on the basis of common sense - do you object to this? I agree with the presumption of innocence and I do not prejudge anyone. But bad languages say that you have made out in 1996, because then Mr Kurublis was a secretary and you have taken his period as Minister and you do not want to discuss the issues that I have just mentioned. Why didn't the drug report come out? Was there someone who benefited from it? How much did he benefit? Why don't you, ladies and gentlemen, talk about this? Why don't you? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I ask for your tolerance for one more minute, Mr President. Why don't you? 'It is...' - says - '...a political decision'. I don't even know what that means. But I'll tell you what the Minister said yesterday. "We don't want..." - says - "... to give the signal that we're potentially all controlled and we're all the same. Not everyone can get into the same bag." Really? Aren't you controlled? What are you? Over control? Why are you above control? Because you're left?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u31	We're above suspicion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u32	I don't understand. What's he gonna say over control? Are you afraid of something? Is there anything you have to hide? Why don't you say it? That's what we're asking. We call for the examination, time and subject matter to be extended. I close, Mr President, by making you a relapse in the game you are playing, a toy which I would remind you has cost the Greek people, after the game theory, the 'Varoufakia', 'we are playing the country in the dice', the third memorandum, the delay of evaluation, 12 billion additional damage only from the delay, 3.6 billion euros new measures. Here we go. And because we're here, ladies and gentlemen, you're playing your change. That's what you're doing. But you should know that the Greek people have understood and when the time comes - and I hope with my wishes for Good Resurrection that redemption for all of us will come soon - they will kick you off the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. Mrs Christophilopoulou, on behalf of the PASOK - DIMAR, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Great Wednesday the "many sins I have been stumbling for a woman". We're celebrating the sinful woman, our Church says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u35	It was yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u36	Please, be quiet. They are not heard by the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u37	Oh, no. Read a little. Imperio was called yesterday. The day is today. The motto was indeed yesterday. Mr President, hold my time, because that's why SYRIZA still has...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u38	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u39	Today's Great Wednesday, we are discussing the Committee of Inquiry into Health. A great deal has already been said by both SYRIZA and Mr Papachristopoulos, and by the rapporteur of the New Democracy. I'll start vice versa, with a question. I have heard from Mr Papachristopoulos that 'clean sky lights are not afraid'. Where was Mr Papachristopoulos as Commander of the State General Nice and his Chief as Minister of Government when the total health expenditure, public and private, increased from 2003 to 2009 by 47%? Where was Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Papachristopoulos when public health expenditure leaped 73% when GDP at that time increased by 19%? Where was Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Papachristopoulos when the public pharmaceutical expenditure was raised from EUR 2.2 billion in 2003 to EUR 5.2 billion in 2009? Where was Mr Kammenos and Mr Papachristopoulos when the debts of the four major insurance funds - IKA, OAE, OAA, OPA - to the hospitals in 2003 were EUR 580 million and in 2009 amounted to EUR 3,6 billion? So this party in health was attended by Mr Papachristopoulos as hospital commander, resignee and candidate Member of the New Democracy, and Mr Kammenos as Minister of State of the New Democracy. That's it so we don't forget here! And because you said "all in light", gentlemen of SYRIZA, what exactly are you afraid of? Because I'm afraid, from what you're saying so far, you want to do something. And you probably want to play. For, of course, in addition to the EUR 12.5 billion burdens that you have already loaded - in addition to the other memoranda - on the back of the Greek people in the period of your administration with the third Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos, you are preparing to load more EUR 3.6 billion. To reduce the tax-free allowances, to cut pensions with the "cutter" of the famous Katorugalos law, which Mr. Katrugalos was coming here and as a capable liar, SYRIZA - all - capable of doing so alone - told us that pensions would increase. And by the time you're about to do all this, of course, you're throwing an inquisition into it. Because that's what this is about. And tell me, please, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, what resolution measure from what we have brought, have you ever voted? Back then, did you vote for the National Health System? Of course not! Bas and have you voted in the period of the crisis of institutions of transparency, such as the ‘GENERAL’ and the electronic health prescription? Did you vote for her? You beat it up in the House! Today, the Minister applies it as. So let us see why it does not extend it, since it is in favour of transparency. Did you vote for the Corruption Attorney? What did you ever vote for? Do you have the courage to take it to this day, as the proposal put forward by the Democratic Alliance says? Do you have that courage and daring? We of PASOK had it in the deficit examination and incorporated the period of the first memorandum, and we incorporated ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u40	Then we did. And we had a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u41	Of course! Then we had a majority. Our proposal hasn't gotten the signatures it needs to be discussed. But he's been filed. And we're going to New Democracy. I'm talking to New Democracy as far back as you want. But we'll go until 2017. If we don't go now, we'll go some other time by 2017. Because at least we in the Democratic Partnership have tabled two reports. One reference message and one simple reference. And the suction report has something to do with the CDC. Because I have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur and Mr Papachristopoulos from the ANELs again, squeezing us numbers that suit them. Did anyone talk about the hundreds of ninety-seven deaths from influenza last year, which is a record rate, because the head of the Ministry of Health has delayed the proclamation and in the midst of the prosecuting the Deputy Minister, Mr. Paulakis, was literally prosecuting the prosecutor? Why do we want to cover it up? If "clean sky lightning is not afraid", why, gentlemen of SYRIZA, do you hold an umbrella? Why are you holding an umbrella? And the second report we have submitted concerns the non-invoicing of medicines in 2015. Who benefited from the ejection of the pharmaceutical expenditure I mentioned before? Who benefited from the non-invoicing of medicinal products in 2015? You don't want this to be considered? Aren't you in favour of 'all in light'? Oh, no. "The others in the light and we with you." All in the light! 'Ours...' - you say - 'bee in the dark'. I pressed the darkness on yours. You don't want anything to look like. We will vote for the examination, if you agree to take it to this day, to show us really that you do not play games, that you do not need a little game to go to your districts in Easter, that you do not need mud in the fan and scandal, but that you really want to put the finger on the type of suns. If you really believe that, then we can agree - and our own proposal - had all the parties to the constitutional arc of Parliament for a period of examination of all health issues and those you are referring to and those that you are not referring to. Because within the information I have given you, there is too much, Minister, which I do not know if you want to discover or hide. It will, however, appear in the examination in which we, the Democratic Reconciliation, will in any case be involved. And to talk a little bit about health stuff, what happened to e-prescription? Are you promoting her? And if so, how? But in these two and a half years, apart from taking the lists from the CEDEFOP, what exactly institutional section did you introduce? Because the uninsured are convicted. There was already uninsured coverage. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] No, you're gonna hear it. Your regulation has also incorporated the refugees. There was no difference. So what have you done for two and a half years in health? Recruitment? The last ones - we had them ready - Mr. Kurublis left them and slept. He was in other ways. I don't know who. Look at you. But Mr. Kourublis had other activities and left them with the recruitment. Now it's happening. It has been two and a half years and since those nine hundred eighty positions, they have now begun and become permanent recruitment. Of course you have other priorities, to recruit through OAED. Why move on to the permanent? You're saying you went ahead with Mr. Loverdos' competition for the EKT. You got half. You rescue them? What happened in Halkidiki the other day? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] What happened? Do you do how you don't know or do you want to do underneath the retractor? Our people died. But rescuers have not been hired.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u42	One hundred and eighty-seven and a hundred. The results are out. Don't lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u43	Lies? You, Tsipras and your government!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u44	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u45	Tsipras always goes out and says that ten thousand are hired to health or hired five thousand to health. Aren't you ashamed? You want to talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u46	Please don't interrupt my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u47	You've twisted everything. You're cutting pensions and saying you're raising them. You call the OAED and you say you're hiring. So this story of propaganda and lies has to end. And it will only end if there is agreement, at least on the sensitive issue of health, that there should be an extension of the period of examination of the Committee of Inquiry for the period up to now. Then the House will, in fact, show that it does not want to play political games. You know what? It is clear - I am not interested in polling, but I see it in the world - that you are falling apart. You know very well that you're falling apart, too. But that's not the point. The question is whether we can show as a political system that we can even reach agreement in the elementary and when the Minister hears the opposition and is disturbed, not to fly and say that we lie. We're not lying. We told truths and cruel truths. And we told about ourselves truths. So we say you go back as long as you want. Our own proposal for the Committee of Inquiry into Health goes up to the end of 2016. This is a serious proposal, a substantial proposal, and the Democratic Response will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Cassidyris has the floor on behalf of the Golden Dawn for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u49	First of all, the only power that produces real work and has a substantial presence in the committees of inquiry is, of course, the Golden Dawn. I am taking an example of the fiasco of the last media inquiry, where the sole purpose of SYRIZA - ANEL, as demonstrated by the events, was to cover up the scandals and the theft of public money for which political factors are responsible. Likewise, in the present health examination, this is the purpose, namely the ones who stole the money, the politicians, who are behind the smuggling of public money, to get oil out. I was present, as a representative of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, to the Committee of Inquiry into the parties' loans. There, then, come the canalarchs, only tea was offered by government representatives. Now they will do the same with all these politicians, 'institutional', economic agents, who are responsible for the theft of billions in the health sector. On the other hand, the People's Association - Golden Dawn faced all these who are fully responsible for the political system for our country's present outrage. And as canalarchs have bleeded, as the bankers in the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of parties and the media, so they will bleed, in this case, all those responsible for stealing the public funds in Greece. There was a bunch of evidence on the last committee of inquiry carried out in the past few months. There were documentaries, testimonies and data that they should have sent to a special court of ministers. And SYRIZA came and said it's okay, it's nobody's fault, there's no politician to have responsibility. Clean up the old political system. The ministers and the Prime Ministers did not know that they were professing air loans! So, then, a filthful scandal of decades also took the booby of the House, except for the Golden Dawn, of course, that there is no problem. This is what you intend to do in the health field, where monstrous crimes have been committed, where no one can count the billions stolen from the public with the signatures of Ministers and Prime Ministers. So here it is very critical and crucial that the role of the People's League - Golden Dawn - which, as I said before, will make all of them bleed. We will reveal evidence, present documentary, as we do in Parliament since 2012, when the Golden Dawn entered here with the command of the Greek people, we will reveal the truth. The constant demand of the Greek society is that thieves go to prison and not that there should be pre-examination committees on request in order to cover the political topicality and systemic betrayals at the expense of the Greek people. No, that is, now that the evaluation is stuck at the corner of the Tsipra-Cammen conflict, to treat this trick of the Committee of Inquiry in order to ash the eyes of the world. Here, then, Golden Dawn will play a key role, as I said before. Already the evidence we have collected about corruption, complexity and crimes of political actors in general - not just financial scandals - is so important that they have led the prosecutor to ask for persecution. A few weeks ago two files came here. One is the prosecution of former Prime Minister Samara and the other is the prosecution of former Minister Stournara, for information that I personally have tabled on this Step here. As regards Stournaras for the scandal of Greek oil and "MOTOR OIL" and the 1.2 billion that lost the public, and for Samaras, for the crime against the Constitution with the illegal phone orders for confiscation of Golden Dawn MPs. The Prosecutor therefore called for the criminal prosecution of these factors and the House is deaf. The Golden Dawn already collects signatures. Unfortunately, this lousy Venizelos law, the law on the responsibility of ministers, does not allow justice to prosecute the ministers and prime ministers who have criminalised. So we'll collect thirty signatures. Beyond our signatures of the Golden Dawn MPs, I hope there will be others who will not accept the guilty cover-up of criminals. I will now go a little bit on health, where the objective, of course, of the People's League - Golden Dawn - is to find the guilty of stealing public money and, above all, to get the stolen money back. And here I think we will achieve a very substantial result, because in the present case of health, especially in the notorious case of NOVARTIS, there is fortunately the legal assistance that we will use to the full. The official American state, the American prosecution authorities, has been involved. The FBI has "NOVARTIS" factor transcripts describing how the political system in Greece is funded, how the ministers get it. We will therefore also discover the black money that has been taken by ministers of the Memorandum Governments and the flow of this money and where they have been hidden. I would remind you that in the notorious pre-examination committee for the Lagard list, in which I had the honour of representing the People's Association - Golden Dawn, I said from the first day of the day that it should be by means of a teleconferencing conference that Faltsiani, the then-official of the HSBC bank, who knew all the secrets about the black money flow. This one, indeed, in front of the public prosecutors - because the House did not accept this proposal of the Golden Dawn - but also in interviews with the Greek media, he said that the secret of the Lagard list is very easy to detect in zero accounts. So here, in this case where there is judicial assistance, where there is a involvement of the FBI and the American prosecution authorities, we will not only find which ministers are prosperous and have been interrogated and who have been "loved" to put "NOVARTIS" medicines and pay the public and spend hundreds of millions of millions of the public and overpaid the public funds and decorate them and put them in their pockets, but we will also discover the flow of black money and what banks abroad are hidden. This is the constant request of the Golden Dawn, which is completely alone conducting this struggle for the long-standing cleansing and to punish the criminals who led Greece to the present miserable economic situation. It's dozens of the health scandals. Who can forget the sixteen million vaccines? Sixteen million vaccines have been ordered by this government, and no one knows how much the juror governmental factors involved in this scandal have been taken. Of course, in the case of 'NOVARTIS' some new critical elements have emerged very recently. And I refer to the statement made by the late prosecutor against the 'corruption' - within too many introductorys, why cannot a prosecutor at the same time be a prostitute - of Helen Rykos, the notorious 'Elena Eleni', told her by Delatollas - so it became known in the whole - in the most famous episode that had taken place in the studio of 'ANT1', when he heard the fullhell of an intertwined journalist, take the prosecutor and say to her 'Ela Eleni, what happened? ‘I have a topic for you’. That is how this name became, and then the New Democracy appointed her as Prosecutor against Corruption. And she goes out and says that "in the "NOVARTIS scandal", I deliver the files and I'm leaving." And it uses the misguided argument, which proves that there is a involvement of political actors in this scandal, that there are, he says, some interests that do not allow me to work. And instead of the prosecutor calling the interests and as a public prosecutor to lead them before the investigating authorities, he says, "I'm leaving." Do you know why he left? Because they're her political partners, her best friends, who sit on these benches. Because Riku has entered this post as the chosen New Democracy, and now that it is time to lead her indicted partner, her own, out of this position, to the stand of the defendant. Not to blame SYRIZA, of course. Golden Dawn says yes, it will certainly vote for any proposal to investigate any period either New Democracy and PASOK or SYRIZA and ANEL. To fall for plenty of light in all the scandals. And because I am talking about scandals, because I am talking about criminal offences, the first and main criminal offence committed by the SYRIZA ministers, particularly in the field of health, is the violation of duty. When Golden Dawn brings timely questions and questions under the procedure of parliamentary control and demands information and control of the government in the name of the Greek people for scandals, for health appointments, we have a breach of duty by the ministers who refuse to answer and participate in parliamentary scrutiny. And they refuse, because they have a lot to hide. They refuse because they fear dialogue, the language of truth and the disclosure of scandals. Golden Dawn, as a guardian of transparency in this House, is the only political force capable of punishing the guilty in the field of health for the stolen, in the field of armaments and defence, in the field of contractors, the public works we saw celebrated by the Syrians on the Corinth-Patra street. We were not told why the public was forced to pay the contractors every kilometre of this road. The stake of this committee of inquiry is to find the guilty, to find the stolen, to find the stolen and to return to the Greek people. Our constant motto, carried into the Parliament by the voice of the Greek people, who are the Golden Dawn, is one: Thieves in prison, stolen to the people. Based on this motto, we will also go to the present committee of inquiry, seeking and discovering criminal responsibilities for political persons, who are unjustly trying to cover up the entire Memorandum Political System. I repeat, you are unjustly trying to cover them up. Golden Dawn is here as a guardian of transparency, to render criminal responsibilities and to lead to a special court and to prison all the guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, if the time is respected, it is estimated that the vote, which will take place after the end of the debate, will take place at 19.00 p.m. Mr Lambroulis, on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party will participate in the setting-up of the Committee of Inquiry, while at the same time claiming to extend the entire investigation without time restrictions until today for the factors that have shaped and shaped the dangerous and disgusting situation at all levels of the public health system. Just because this situation goes no further, we believe that the issue of health and welfare needs more decisive and demanding to enter the centre of the struggle of the working class, the people's strata, claiming solutions to the hot and acute problems. By limiting the Committee of Inquiry on both the subject and the exploration time, it is not only seeking to cover the public-risk situation in the area of public health and the enormous responsibility of the governments, but above all to disorientate from the reason that the problems and health of the people are legally exacerbated. It is precisely because the tragic and disastrous situation in the public health sector is the result of the unpopular political choices that shrink social spending, the free benefits, by transferring costs to the people. They limit the benefits to the minimum basic package, reduce state and insurance costs, in order to reduce non-wage costs, in order to form a more cheap labour force as a prerequisite for supporting the famous competitiveness and profitability of business groups. This objective is consistently served by both the current SYRIZA-ANEL and the previous ones, a policy that is being promoted uniformly throughout the European Union, independent of the debts and of the Memorandums, and which has been launched in time long before the outbreak of the capitalist economic crisis. To achieve this is due to the major shortages in medical and nursing staff, equipment, the absence of clinical and laboratory function, long-term lists, which force patients to resort to health entrepreneurs by paying huge sums. This is due to the unacceptable levels of state funding of health establishments, which remain at the same level as the reductions from previous governments, the reduced State subsidy to the ERCF with its deficit of transferring pensioners through a 6% contribution to the main and supplementary pensions. Even the uninsured access of the uninsured was made with foreign tide, since the state does not put a single euro out of the state budget. In order for this policy to be accepted, it has been invested by all governments in the pre-institutional wrapping up of rationalisation, waste and households, with the obvious aim of getting the people the perception of unnecessary social costs, over-benefits to patients, caused by health problems. So, since the political choice and the current conflict of SYRIZA - ANEL, like the previous governments, has to do with the support of capital, business groups and the health sector, not the breath of the people, cannot be given, as the government claims, but the situation will get worse, since it works cumulatively and multiplierly. This criterion must be judged by the people and not by the intentions, that others are supposed to want to do more because it is forced by the lenders, while in reality it follows its tactics "take me and weep." The problems in the health sector will not be solved by committees of inquiry. Experience from the past shows, moreover, that the committees of inquiry are being used to obscure, mislead the people from the main problem, the cause of the exacerbation of popular problems, the generalised attack on the working class and the rest of the people, especially in times such as the one we are experiencing, with the new major crime and political scandal of the second assessment and the new package of anti-popular measures. So, not only is the knife not going to reach the bone - your favourite phrase - but on the contrary, the sepsis, corruption, scandals and complication remain. And, of course, we say that they cannot be dealt with precisely because they are inherent in the capitalist system's own rot, which marks the management policy of the system in all areas: economy, equipment, health and elsewhere. After all, all governments have taken and taken measures to deal with corruption and conflict. There is a rich legislative framework. However, when, for example, the health sector is developing on the basis of cost-benefit, public health units are dependent on business groups for equipment in machinery, medicines, reagents, medical tools, health material and so forth, the hunting of profits is the breeding greenhouse and corruption, money laundering. And that cannot be dealt with by any examination, as no legislation has dealt with. And precisely the political choices of the governments on the profit base require further pillaging of the insurance funds, the exploitation of patients, and at the same time the hit on labour rights by wage reductions, overthrowing working conditions and industrial relations. And all this is legal. Laws are being implemented. In the light of the anti-Fland Laws, for example, is the CEDEFOP not being used by both the present government and the former as the official state slave trade office? They hire staff for fixed-term health units at much lower pay and with limited rights - without allowances, without licences - contributing to the slapping of the right to stable work with full rights. The same as Henry Dynan Hospital, which is also in the proposal to set up the Committee of Inquiry. This is a company owned by the largest NGO in Greece, the Greek Red Cross, which you present as a model of the mixed economy, which went bankrupt and which was the vehicle that led to the business activities of this hospital. In fact, you've been advertising it as the standard-function hospital, which should be imitated by other public sector hospitals. The patients, however, paid the insurance funds normally, while the workers in this hospital experienced all the anti-corruption measures in their salaries, intensification of their work, etc. Really, what was his course? His course from what was determined? It was defined by competition and business plans in the health sector, through the strong confrontation between private business groups, which, of course, claim an even greater share in the health services market, namely the further development of the hospital's business through the joint effort of the non-governmental organisation of the Red Cross and also of the governments. Do the government really think, for example, that this hospital, Henry Dunn, should pass it under state control, so as to do so, with funding from the state budget, be served with permanent staff, full-time and exclusive employment and provide all services free of charge to everyone, without conditions and conditions? Of course, it is certainly not a riddle in this question, as, for example, the government wonders how, while it has reduced the retail price of medicines, patients pay more than before, worsening the equally tragic situation of the medical care of the people. Having maintained all the anti-grassroots measures of the previous governments, reducing state and insurance costs, increasing payments by patients, it contributes with its policy to increasing median payment by the people, from 9% in 2009 to around 35% today for prescription medicines, without taking into account payments for non-prescribed medicines, paid 100% of the patients, while of course maintaining the EUR 1 engraving per prescription, reduces insurance prices, etc. Where does all this lead? In the implementation of this Euro-Union policy, where state and insurance funds have paid 57.7% less, while insured 43% more for medicines, while for medicines that are not compensated by the insurance funds by 14.6% more. While the situation is getting worse for the people, the government where it is found and where it stands highlights the effectiveness of its policy of reducing public pharmaceutical expenditure and, indeed, agreed to keep it at present at least until 2018. It is precisely in the image of a prescription medicine that the essence of anti-popular policy is revealed in the care of the people. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. If the government's interest in patients was real and not hypocritical, it could abolish the so-called insurance prices at which insurance funds calculate the compensation to a single part of the retail price of medicines and the rest are called upon to pay the patients themselves, as are medicines not prescribed and paid in full. Thus, the social sign of the government's policy is going to the point of changing the way of increased payments from the folk layers, which is why, in this policy of the Government of the Social Welfare, it is not even possible to pass the popular demand for a free medicine, exclusively public, free health system. It is precisely the outcome of the policy on the future of the government on the medicine that is a typical example of the strategic political government, the European Union and capital, that is, a reduction in non-wage costs, so that the price of the labour force is more compressed. It reduces the state's pharmaceutical expenditure, seeking to ensure that it supports all types of incentives, tax exemptions, reductions in contributions, warm money and other capital. Thus, even any reduction in the prices of medicines, which reduces the over-pricedness of pharmaceutical, local and foreign industries, is eventually returned again in a multiple way through the provision of incentives by the State. The fact that not only does the people not gain, but above all they lose more, shows that the problem is deeply classic, political, is a problem of development, which is why it is being done and who is benefiting from it. The issue raised to the people, in order to become a genuinely normal country, presupposes that the wealth produced by workers themselves is social property with their own power, with the socialisation of all monopolies, between them and the capitalist pharmaceutical industry. To this end, the people's alliance must be brought to an end again, because that is the only way of health, welfare, medicine can become a social commodity and not a commodity that is today. So as far as the Communist Party is concerned, Mr President, we are voting - we have said this from the outset - on the proposal to set up a government's committee of inquiry. Of course, if it is agreed and put to the vote, we will also vote on the New Democracy proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the river wing]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ms. Big Economics, on behalf of the Centro Association, has the floor for ten minutes. Please keep the time, so that we can finish the time we have said. Here, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is being held on whether or not to take a decision, in accordance with Article 68(2) of the Constitution, on the proposal put forward by the SYRIZA - ANEL for a committee of inquiry into the health scandal in 1997-2014. At the same time, we are also discussing the proposal put forward by the New Democracy to investigate the management and expenditure of public health from 1996 until today. Both options find us opposing, because they are two draft proposals which serve the micro-political interests of the government coalition and the Civilian Anti-Population Officer. On the one hand, SYRIZA wants to investigate possible scandals, but, with the exception of his own term of office, and on the other, the New Democracy is opposed to this and only seeks an investigation into the SYRIZA-ANEL mandate. None of them, however, really cares about the real situation. Both parties know and we know and the Greek people know the party that had been set up - and it has been established - and the inertia of those who have been officials in positions of responsibility for all these years. The health scandals are a daily phenomenon no longer shocking us. Corruption is common from the last administrative officer to the Minister concerned. All the things that are mentioned as an area of health and the destruction of public money are one of the most serious factors that has led our homeland to the magnificence of memoranda. It is a constant scandal that everyone in the government should have solved. The funds and waste of public money should be investigated from post-multiple and then, in order to inform the Greek people, regardless of any violations of the criminal responsibilities of the persons involved, who have had the money. I say to you that it is very difficult to investigate, because they have already been suspended since 1974, but in any case. Because I am sure that this committee will only prove it - and I stress it - that we have not all eaten it together. Unfortunately, corruption and rot in this area touches everyone. The fish, as the people say, stink from the head. And when you're Minister, you have an absolute responsibility to cut off the umbilical cord of the rotula and the remula that has now been connected to the National Health System. So we need to shed plenty of light and explore both scandals and the smashing of public money in the health sector since 1974, that is, from post-policy and so far, because the Greek people have to know what it is and what the political persons involved as moral perpetrators of criminal acts have been, to know that all those who have voted for so many years are common criminals and not saviours. In his interview, the Minister of Health stated that corruption in health has a political name. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of becoming a committee for the investigation of liability and finally leading to a finding that does not give rise to responsibilities? Under no circumstances should what has happened again with the examination of the complexion between the media, the political people and the banks. We heard about millions of euros, but no one was finally involved. Where'd all those millions go if it wasn't anyone's fault? The same ridiculous thing I predict is that SYRIZA and the ANELs are preparing us and here: a committee we will hear about ruthlessness, we will hear millions pass by, but we will probably not end up with any particular person. Do you really think that the Greek people are interested in rendering political responsibility? Political responsibilities have already been attributed to the vote. It was the one who sent PASOK to 4%, the New Democracy in Anti-Population, precisely because the people know very well that both New Democracy and PASOK were the ones who destroyed Greece. They are the champions who came out in the rousphetti, the crackdown of state money and the collapsing of “men”. The Greek people want the stolen ones back and the thieves get in prison. That's what they care about. All this, of course, was election commitments made by SYRIZA and the ANELs, who have very easily forgotten them. So do not try to prove to the Greek people that you are allegedly bringing justice. Once again, political responsibilities will also lead to the deadlock in the personalisation of responsibilities. However, this political irresponsibleness of years and theft of public money paid and paid dearly the Greek people with their blood, with deprivation, with reductions in their pensions, with reductions in allowances in HEIs, with cuts in ancillarys, with incredible shortcomings, even if the Greek people do not have their livelihoods. We have reached them all to the limits of poverty and many more to the limits of poverty. The Minister said in an interview that any criminal responsibilities involving administrative or political officials are being investigated and that we want to identify both the holes in the system and the mechanisms that allowed these behaviours. You may be right, Minister, to think that not everyone can get into a sack and you say that the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict should not be controlled for these two years of governance. However, in itself this thought is inconsistent. I do not believe that once SYRIZA - ANEL has been collated, there has not been any rodents. I ask those who still go on: Why do you not want to discover them? Really, if you're so clean, what bothers you to explore your own period? I sincerely hope that you have committed nothing. I am sure that the committee will not reach any conclusions, and much more so I am sure that even the millions' dance will not be seen in the faces and pockets of those who have eaten them. Time, but above all, the investigation methods are incorrect. On the one hand, the committee has no specific direction, precisely because we do not want to have any results and, on the other, the scandals are investigated for a certain period of time which does not guarantee that the Greek people will be informed of the truth. Furthermore, according to SYRIZA's proposal, three specific health issues will be investigated. First of all, the party at the CEDEFOP concerning its advertising expenditure and bank lending, secondly, on pricing and pharmaceutical expenditure and thirdly on the administration and overcharge of Henry Dunan. I think that this sector needs to be extended because there are too many other issues. Really, ladies and gentlemen, is this only the end of the party at these three you've recorded? Haven't you heard anything else about the health field? Recently we heard about medications that prescribe doctors. All of us are almost daily receiving information from acquaintances and friends about what is going on in public hospitals. The limitation of the committee of inquiry to such specific items, and it at least proves that, once again, nothing substantial will arise. Therefore, such a paradox, such a prestige in the health system, the Centro Association cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. We shall proceed to the next speaker, who is Mr Mavrosh from the Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u55	The advantage of speaking last is that you have heard other colleagues so I will try not to repeat things that have been heard. So, there's been a party in health for the past twenty years? Were there scandals? Who's to blame? Are politically involved? To these questions, the Committee of Inquiry into Health proposed on the basis of the proposals submitted by both the Government and the New Democracy and the PASOK. Twelve Ministers for Health from 1997 to 2015 and three others since then. But what is this proposal that we are discussing? Let's see them one by one. Pharmaceutical expenditure. The great increase in medicinal expenditure in Greece, as is well known, is attributed mainly to the excessive amount of drug consumption due to over-registering and directed prescription, defensive medicine, etc., to extensive illegality with healthbooks and genuine films, outbreaks of waste and corruption in public hospitals, pharmacies, insurance funds, citizens, and especially doctors, and to a lesser extent to the comparatively high prices of off-patents, off-patient medicines and generic preparations. We also have to see the development aspect: a dynamic extroversion of business with domestic and international players, the pharmaceutical and import industries, which should and can contribute to the improvement of the situation. All this has to be seen, what has changed, what has yet to change. Second element, Henry Dynan Hospital, a hospital for which the proceedings are more than his beds. Let's see what happened there, who's dissatisfied, who's benefiting, who's damaged. I am passing through, as we talk about central hospitals, at some point, Minister, we must also look at the issue of spatial planning. We cannot have ten large hospitals within a square kilometre in the center of Athens and whole growing areas, such as East Attica, with critical infrastructure, airport, ports, have no hospital. We need to see that sometime too. This localist parentheses closes here. Finally, the government's proposal is that of CEDEFOP, which, on the one hand, is a sinner, and on the other hand, the government strengthens other similar structures such as AEMY. What does the Committee of Inquiry have to do for which we are debating today? Explore the cases, locate any scandals, assign responsibilities, if any, to political persons. The partners, the river parliamentary support and documentation team, have already found a lot of evidence to discuss them in the committee. The aim is to throw light on these cases. Of course, if cases other than three - i.e. Henry Dunan, CEDEFOP and pharmacy - are detected, they should also be examined. I understand the examination period that we put between 1997 and 2014 as an initial indicative period. The SYRIZA - ANEL do not want to be netted out with their own governance, so for political reasons they do not take the examination period until today. Mr. Balomenakis referred to this at the beginning. Mr Papachristopoulos also said that pure sky lightning is not afraid. However, if there is evidence which refers outside the period under consideration, I cannot imagine that there will be fellow Members who say 'no, we do not look at them'. Besides, in the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of parties and the media, we have also examined cases outside the committee's narrow scope, such as the pre-2002 period or items that had nothing to do with loans from parties and the media, but had to do with, for example, grants, advertising expenditure, etc. The Committee of Inquiry should therefore be flexible. And if for political reasons SYRIZA does not want to enter the same "cadron" now with New Democracy and PASOK, if such evidence emerges for the last period, he will have to consent as a champion of transparency and "all in light" rather than "all in light other than us". What else, in my opinion, this committee must do? To see where there were system holes and to shut them down or rather suggest ways to close them. If, for example, electronic supplies had gone to hospitals, the scandalous hospital expenditure would have been controlled. If the e-patient card had gone ahead, the phenomenon of excessive prescribing, without the patient even knowing it, would have been limited. We therefore pay the costs for delaying the implementation of well-known reforms which, however, undone people. And the more people are undone by a reform, the worse it is. Because those who unwitting may be few, but they are usually close to the ears of power, while those who benefit are many, but they are usually speechless. Digital capacities that promote transparency and cross-checking should be made a priority. HICP can play a key role by linking hospital data systems, doctors, patients. This is why the interoperability of the systems is essential. Pharmaceutical expenditure was great because it was uncontrolled and it was uncontrolled because it was profitable for some. And what's our big shame? It is that if the troika and the memos were not here to force us to limit it, we would have done nothing, unfortunately. Let's go to CDC. Speaking of the word CDC, everyone's mind goes into his bad and not his good. Unfortunately, it is such practices that the thought does not go to the flexibility it offered and offers, but to the customer relations it has served, whether this is rhysphetological recruitment by doing bypass to the ADP, or advertising expenditure that gave privilegedly to some. And it is indicative that the political system if it introduces an aptitude process, like the ASP, by mistake or by heavy heart, is the same as the ASP, and it is slowly and voluntarily devouring it. That is why I say and repeat that if a committee of inquiry were to be set up, the one that really worked would be an examination committee for the client state. But who would vote for this when everyone fights it in words, but they support it with their works? So the more a arms trader promotes peace processes, the more our political system promotes anti-population practices and policies! However, when there are no institutions that ensure equal opportunities and open procedures, our Parliamentary Republic is plunged into parliamentary pluralism. And as long as we don't understand that this is the number one problem in the country, as much as it's a solution to some parties, we'll be chasing our tail. As we speak of a client state, we have also asked a question about the health sector - we have also done education - which has not been answered, about how many nurses are seconded outside hospitals or other administrative services and are missing from the front line and we expect an answer. This committee of inquiry which we are going to vote on today will make sense if it is really aimed at the show, as we have seen many times in the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of parties and the media. We must not set up a committee of inquiry to compete with Survivor on television. And we come to the question: why now is this committee of inquiry and the others who have started or are proclaimed? The House will soon be overtaken even by universities with three periods of examination a year. And since the universities were set up in exams, we put the pre-examination in order to balance. My opinion is that it is now not six months ago, or a year ago, in order to create a diversion to pass the measures and to judge the results of the barren, endless negotiation. So the government goes to a stadium that considers privileged, that of the overthrow of the past. But there is always a risk of doing what has been done in the loan examination, in other words that it will continue its previous practices despite its declarations. Because I think this is a cross-party and horizontal matter. Were they only in PASOK? Were they only born in New Democracy? Isn't it SYRIZA? I believe that regardless of the advertised moral advantage of the respective government, there is also an immoral advantage of the various circuits and mechanisms in the sidelines of power, in the corridors of the Ministries, the Parliament, the regions and the municipalities. In short, the big problem is not so much the "Blackyalurus", as the "Gruises" and the "Gruises" are all the time and all the parties. So the point is how we will build those procedures that will shield the system independently. So we need institutions and not philosophers. We need not just reform but radical transformation into the system. Great changes, however, also need great consensus. Is there a committee of inquiry for this? I think not. It'll end up in a show where the line starts and not the argument. He won't focus on the issues, but on the analogies. It will not focus on proposals but on tensions. Ladies and gentlemen, what the country needs is not someone with a moral advantage who, as a saint, comes to clean up the system, needs someone to create the institutional advantage that will make procedures transparent, meritful and equal to everyone. So we do not need the moral advantage but the institutional advantage. That is what we need to look for not only in this committee of inquiry, but in general in our political practice. Can we? I wish I could say: 'yes, we can't. We shall therefore vote in favour of setting up the committee of inquiry with a view, but not only in the past but in the future. Without political terminology and restrictions we want to explore not only yesterday, but also today, because this is the only way we will build a better tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u56	Mr Koukoutsis has the floor as an Independent MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. It is common sense now that in Greece the elections are won by the parties that rely on the negative vote of the citizens for those who ruled to that point. That's how Mr. Papandreou came to the country's rule, so Mr. Samaras came, so Mr. Tsipras came. The anger and disgust of the voters about the old and not the positive sign for the new have always judged the election result. It's obvious that that's what everyone's doing. Everything that bad has done an incompetent and ruthless government has previously been amorous in order for voters to get rid of the current tyranny. In fact, they are willing to return to what a few years ago caused disgustingness and humiliation, and even do so without ever being done, easily and enthusiastically and with enthusiasm for the so-called new one. So what are the selection criteria? On what criteria, with what measures and weights does the average citizen of this country assess who will govern him? Unfortunately, the power parties in Greece have never displayed anything creative, but on the contrary their survival is based on the management version of power and the election of a leader down to the standards of successful is assumed to be an opponent until then. The most important role, of course, is the name, just as one does in the department store by buying detergent for his clothes or toothpaste. Always prefers the last name and even with nice design product. So since everything is marketing, why should that not apply to politics too? That's true. This is how the average voter perceives politics. And as Churchill said, it's been five minutes in the system we've built to talk to the average voter to understand the quality of the culture. And is it not the national father who chooses, in the image and likeness of it, that, if this process is judged to be degressive, is it not the social decline that follows the economic devastation, the economic decline? The country's governance, ladies and gentlemen, with lies, hallucinations, outrages and self-centered complexes, has not led anywhere or rather leads to mathematical accuracy in social unrest and explosion. However, the average citizen is swept away from the ground to retreat under his feet, but he does not have the power to take a single step to save himself. In a difficult, bare social environment, then, it is logical that intrigue, remula, steal, and corruption should shine. It is a work played in Greece, with different filmmakers and actors each time, but always with the same audience, with the same spectators. Nowadays, then, we have to set up a committee of inquiry into health scandals for a certain period of time. Why for a certain period of time? That's the unthinkable one. And while problems are growing, the government is setting up a health committee of inquiry this week. Not that it is not necessary, of course, but after we have solved all the other serious problems, we must resolve this too! In the last election campaign, our ears hurt to listen to the moral advantage of the Left, which, apparently, was assimilated on the road of power and the system, which has so fiercely fought over all these years. Why should this proposal for an examination committee not be, for example, for what happened from the time the ESS was set up to date? Is there a reason? Very well you have done and brought to this Chamber scandals unpunished, but Caesar's wife other than being honest must already show it. You will tell me, is there also the well-known theory 'although the previous ones did not do the same'? It's the famous joke. But food in the health sector with the consent of politicians, bureaucrats, special advisers, service agents, etc., is a history of many years. Over time, in this desert country, hospital products are sold at high prices, ensuring huge profits to suppliers and manufacturers. The practice of overpricing was established by FEK on top-price medical materials in 1998, at the Government of Simitis. All the CVT by 2010 provided high prices, which were also fully arbitrary. In 2005 there was a 20% -25% reduction in prices, and I was allowed to speak - in the duo. So consider what the great profits were in this area. The famous Committee on Health Supplies from 2007 until now remains the central body of the administration of health supplies. A scientific study carried out by Professor Marda in 2011 identified materials at increased prices of 1,000% and 2.000% compared to other countries, such as orthopedic materials. The inspectors' findings fill hundreds of volumes. Hundreds are the findings issued for the cooperation of “SIEMENS” with hospitals, close to seventy-five. Others refer to the supply of orthopaedic materials by the US company ‘JOHNSON AND JOHNSON’. Besides, hospital checks showed how poor the supply system is. They showed medical materials purchased by direct orders, without pre-indications and of course overpriced and stored in illegal warehouses in hospitals. According to the findings, it appears that this river is a river of money that Ministers, State Secretarys, secretaries, doctors, bureaucrats, NGOs have swimd. The latter especially in mental health sweated laurels! In the course of time we watched strange phenomena directly linked to economic interests in the health sector, such as delirium against vaccines, myth of rehab with magic wands, intolerance tests, homeopathic drugs, etc. As for the notorious 'NOVARTIS' case, this case has it all. He's got hate, he's got FBI, he's got courts, suicides, prosecutors, civilians. And what doesn't he have? The ruthless war on the prescribing pie is still in our country. It is important to make it clear that there are witnesses in this case who have testified to the US courts and that they are actually buying their immunity now, since they have participated in the networks they report to. Finally, I would like to say a few things which I mentioned here five years ago just and which I will repeat as long as I am in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek citizens are rightly angry when they see various politicians who are accused of serious offences involving serious criminal and political responsibilities to appear on the channels and the House and behave with incredible enthusiasm and respond to the charges that are being accused of them in such a way, considering all of us at least as idiots. Their tactics, of course, do. And it performs, because they have knowledge of the laundry of the system and have the opinion that they can blackmail everyone. But let us be honest. We must admit that the system alone has not been ruthless to date. After all, those who have passed - a few - on the prison door did so for a very short time. All those who have captured this people are free to move, and this adds to the feelings of immunity, arrogantness and greed that perpetuate them. Ladies and gentlemen, the country cannot be resurrected, neither can there be any suspicion of a rule of law nor a vote of national dignity unless it is tried on the grounds of last treason and the last Member of Parliament is punished, the Minister, a service agent who participated in the sale and the poverty of this people. Do you remember in the committees or even in here, in this Chamber, how many times did you have elapsed with your attitude and your vote I scandaled above you and now you want us to believe that you will do the opposite? Why? Has something changed in this country? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. We are entering the list of Members of Parliament. Each speaker will have the floor for five minutes. We must, however, say that the parliamentary representatives are involved. For each of the two Members a parliamentary representative, starting from the smaller parties to the larger ones, may intervene, as is the case with the Chiefs. If, of course, a parliamentary representative has a reason to precede, that will certainly be accepted by the Bureau. Mr Papadopoulos, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u59	What happened to Greece, a historical European country with an ancient culture, built by nature, was driven into explosive deficits, overcompensation, substantial bankruptcy, and then to custody by its lenders and to memorandum deals of internal depreciation, poorness of the Greek people? Ladies and gentlemen, we, too, support the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry into scandals in the health field. Mrs Asmakopoulou, rapporteur of the New Democracy, I do not see you now - in the main reasons for the incredible deficits in the national economy, in relation to financial derailment, as well as the subsequent health tragedy and in the lack of the ESS is the unprecedented complexity, corruption, provocative demand for services, medicines and laboratory examinations. It is the great food in the health field, the misery of the splitting of public money. The data reveal an unjustified increase in pharmaceutical expenditure for too many years, challenging over the time we are considering in relation to European data. EUR 700 per capita reached the pharmaceutical expenditure in 2009 in Greece, while the Community average is EUR 270. We note that public pharmaceutical expenditure reached 5.3 billion in 2009 and continued over the other years. At the same time, private pharmaceutical expenditure, the cost from the citizens' pockets, was launched in the space we are investigating at around 1.3-1.4 billion and the total pharmaceutical expenditure at EUR 6.346 billion in 2009. The data also reveals a stagnation of the IKA and the other insurance funds, huge overpricings of health material, pacemakers, medicines, vaccines, camera detection, biomedical equipment, arthroplasty and agioplasty materials, blood gastrointestinal gaming. They reveal general trades, arrogant hatreds, plunged 'fingers'. They reveal the smuggling of public resources, the pillaging of public money, the sinful behavior of doctors, pharmacists, state officials. We are not the only ones who support this. The question of the Potamian MPs, discussed in the House on 22 January 2016, notes the timeless reluctance of the alternating governments of New Democracy and PASOK to clash with pressure groups and interests that culminate in the area of health, to smash pathogens, trade, corruption. However, in the analyses of many researchers for the overcompensation of Greece, even in the long-term locations of New Democracy officials, such as Mr. Sourla or Mrs. Bakoyannis when he was autonomousd, as well as of PASOK, such as the former Minister of Health, Mr. Alekos Papadopoulos on "piranhas" and Mr. Ilias Mosailou on speculation and anti-ethical prescriptions for insurance funds, important aspects of the scandals that do not justify the current flaming of the New Democracy text on a political diversion of the government are highlighted. It is therefore a very important task for all of us to have plenty of light on the regime that has unleashed public money and on all the cases that make up the scandal puzzle in health, so that there can be justice interventions to those who have proved to be abused power and public money. Our central task, however, is to draw valuable conclusions for the great effort of overall resolution in the field of health, good public money management, strategic organisation, integrated quality, effective and free public health system. The scandals we are exploring are not the only ones that have become clear so far, such as those of the CEDEFOP, the NOVARTIS, Henry Dunan, the DEPUY, the SIEMENS, but much more. It is literally a criminal antisocial behaviour, a private piranhas' party that inflamed state spending, Mr Simitis, and not society. In the case of NOVARTIS, I will not go into this because colleagues have dealt with it, and particularly Mr Thanasis Papachristopoulos. It seems that the explosion of the pharmaceutical expenditure in Greece, in the years of the kriapal, as well as the practice of bribery not only concerned "NOVARTIS", but also many other pharmaceutical companies. I'm closing up with this. You ask: Why investigation by 2015? Just because until then, instead of progressive modernisation, state re-establishment, conflict with pimps, there has been immunity to piranhas, indifference in mismanagement, inconsistency in the administration of health services, irrational development of structures and services and, above all, a conspiracy of silence on all scandals, data, pre-examination material, complaints, reports by Mr Rakindzis and the Body of Health Services Inspectors. The political reason is that after the 2015 elections a zero-tolerance government emerged in strife and corruption. If you have a different picture, we will listen carefully and explore the data you will present. However, we will take advantage of the conclusions of the committee of inquiry to save valuable resources for the needs of the public health system, the new EEA EMS, the new procurement system, the new pharmaceutical policy, the ethical e-prescription and ultimately to reconstruct this country, a task that we have also undertaken with the new popular mandate, on which we will apologise in the 2019 elections, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. Because Mr. Papadopoulos referred to names, the term "piranhas" in health was used by me when I was a Minister of Health. It was then passed, along with Alekos Papadopoulos, who was Minister of Finance, the relevant health supplies law, which, if implemented, might not have been discussed today. In this regard, Mr Kurublis, who was then Secretary of State for the Welfare, may give you further information. And, of course, it is good to see that law too, because it is very clear. We shall proceed to the next Member, who is Mr Economou from the point of view of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, the proposal put forward by SYRIZA for the examination is really a laughing matter. It is a very failed attempt to politicise the confrontation in health to exacerbate and plunge the climate. Of course, at the same time, he asks for a consensus on health initiatives. There is no way he will get any consent. The confrontation will be vertical, absolute and cruel for the works and days of this government. So, listen: For the period 2015-2017, the Minister of Health comes with the new theory of moralization of the administration, brought by the Ministry of Crete, this most important political position of a medium-sized state minister, which says that SYRIZA is moralizing as the order for its region, the right to exercise command, according to the left's 'ethical advantage'. This is the most dreadful, inadmissible and incomprehensible attitude, where the Minister comes to complement that he will not be controlled by anyone, because he is by definition moral. Therefore, the period 2015-2017, proposed by the New Democracy plus 1996, will not be in control, because by definition they are moral! See, then, how this structure of misery and the tragic political approach by SYRIZA will collapse: First, are you moral? Very good. We claim that in 2015 with the non-invoicing of medicines you gave a very nice gift - according to my assessment, the signing of Vassilis Economou - of 200 million in the pharmaceutical industries, beyond and outside the law. You are not legally covered by the "Baroufachian" negotiation. And I ask: Do you have the agony, gentlemen of SYRIZA, to consider this heavy and very important complaint made about the works and the days of your Government, where the Minister was Kourublis and then Xanthos took the dough? We estimate that it is 200 million present in the pharmaceutical industries. However, one thing is certain: we'll find it. We'll do a preliminary examination, we'll do whatever you want. But this thing can't stay dark. I finalise the matter and go on the issue of recruitment with just one incident: The criminal prosecution of the CEDEFOP, as it concludes, says: "It concerns offences of fraud jointly, in combination with the aggravating circumstances of Law 1608/1950 on abuses of public law, the unlawful processing of personal data, for the purpose of the illegal property and the harm of a third party and of subtracting a document to another unfair benefit". It is about three employees, but it is also about everyone else in charge. Do you know who is "every other person responsible"? He has a name: Paulakis. Where is the beloved Deputy? Do you know what this is? It's criminal prosecution for the illegal recruitment of CEDEFOP! Don't you have the question of examining the D.A.'s order? Do you want to quit? Do you want to get out of this period? You were very anxious in the revision of the Constitution to leave Article 86 and there was no protection of the Ministers. Mr. Papadopoulos, my dear and respected colleague, you have great anxiety. And you bring the Revision of the Constitution to the omission of Article 86, which covers the ministers. And we ask here: here you have a very clear case. Don't you at least have the parliamentary question to see what is going to happen to this case? We will consider this in the examination. Whatever you're doing, we're going into this case. We will also enter the case for 2015 on the EEA. Look, I can't have 1,000,000 of the EOPY contributions for extra revenues, get the 650,000,000 substation of the first review of 2015 - to have, that is, 1,650,000,000 - and make me an account of the president of the EEA that the due date has reached 2014 level. He was 1,100,000, took it to 1,300,000,000, and took it back to 1,100,000. Of course, I hear that the delays in February have gone to 1,300,000,000. So I ask this: where did the money go? What did you pay? You gave 600,000 to the hospitals, only five hundred of them. That's gonna be a big hole in the ERU for which you won't give an account? And you won't give an account that you didn't offset the clawback for 2016? And you won't tell us why you started clearing up now after the matter came to Parliament? And it was your obligation, because there was the law - you didn't change it - that obliges you to make that arrangement. So the issues are recruitment, drug, and EEAS. I have a list of twenty-fifths of the cases that I have found - with the hospital managers - we will have the opportunity to say these - which are all candidates, party officials, candidates, regional consultants, i.e. SYRIZA's 'fan gate'. You put your party officials in hospitals. As far as you're concerned, you did well. But you cannot baptize this merit. And Mr. Tsipras came along and said from this Stepma, "we took off the party volunteers of the New Democracy and put the technocrats and the best health officials". And I go and I see their resumes, and people are growing up - and good because they feel good about it - as top executives in their prefecture of SYRIZA and ANEL.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u62	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u63	I shall conclude, Mr President. You can't say such things. They're very heavy political attacks. And I think we should consider these in the examination. That is why we made the proposal for 2015 and 2017. Once you don't vote for it, you'll be accountable, you'll give a reason. There's no way you can hide behind anything. Know that in 2015 and 2017 they will be examined, checked and they will all come to light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. Mr Morfidis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I want to give a little answer to Mr. Economou. Mr. Economou, I'm from Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. In the five prefectures, there is a SYRIZA official who took over a hospital, two New Democracy officials, a former PASOK official and an independent person I don't know what it is. But there are two members of the New Democracy in a total of five people. What were we supposed to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u66	Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u67	For today. I guess you didn't check the directory well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u68	Would you like me to submit a list of twenty-five?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u69	Now, I'm talking. Excuse me, no one interrupted you, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u70	The exam will be filed anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u71	Respect that I'm talking, if you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u72	We're talking with a brand name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u73	I'll tell you what, if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u74	Do not be influenced by television, Mr. Economou. Go on, Mr. Morfidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the proposal for a committee of inquiry to investigate health scandals. Question One: Are there any grounds for making its recommendation and who? Question 2: What period will be investigated? Question 3: With what objectives? For the first question, let's take a look at the complaints that have seen the light of publicity with a strong sense of the scandal, such as CEDEFOP, NOVARTIS, Henry Dunan and another twenty or at least thirty cases. At the same time, control findings and reports from competent state bodies show waste, mismanagement of public money, opacity, immunity, but also complication. The common place of this is that health in general, public hospitals and public insurance funds have been looted inconsistently. The word 'loving' is not a word of astonishment. It's just reality. Let's see the management of the CDC. A remarkable body with great offering and scientific work has turned into a grouper. Checked for the first time in 2016 by the Directorate-General for Financial Control of the Ministry of Finance. Officials and officials of the institution shall be referred to the Criminal Court with serious accusations. However, we should consider how this staff was appointed, what amounts was borrowed, even with the guarantee of the Greek government, how the CIFF managed public money, because it spent huge sums on advertising, what needs, and above all who received these sums. How is it possible for a public body not to keep accounts, not to have an organised accounting system, whatever information it had in its file not to be in chronological order, according to the finding? And with regard to the competition to buy the building in Agraphon, I've never seen a picture of higher analysis and clarity. Let's see the figures on the costs paid by the insurance funds for the medicine. Within a decade they are ejected from EUR 900 million to EUR 5 billion. No one understood? Nobody wondered why? And the administrations of the insurance funds, as well as the Ministry, neglected the following: first, to staff with qualified medical staff to carry out control. Secondly, to formulate the relevant institutional framework. Thirdly, even direct existing staff to a tightening-up of drug controls. This resulted in the costs of pharmacy and additive companies not controlled, becoming boxes for archiving. Therefore, the insurance funds paid out the extra-real prices of medicines and the pharmaceuticals earned huge profits. And like this, pharmaceutical companies, such as "NOVARTIS", had set up with doctors a ring of interdependence and profit, and created public money. We have all been informed by an investigation by the US authorities. And many fell from the clouds. Of course, some of you knew and facilitated this complexity and they have huge responsibilities. And it is true that the investigation will continue and will be requested by the US authorities to provide the Iban accounts for those involved. Ladies and gentlemen, all this, and of course, making proposals for the same examination and other parties, state the need for it to be set up. I come to the second question: What period will be investigated? Our disagreement is in the time period that we will consider, i.e. whether to look at the period 2015-2016. Ladies and gentlemen, they insist that people smack everyone and all, insist on the tactical "all themselves are themselves", insist that they discover for the two years 2015-2016 elements that will reduce the outcry and projects for their own days. But we're not all the same, gentlemen. The previous governments and policies that have been implemented have shrinked the social state and citizens' rights, have supported private life and have earned public and free health. We are struggling to set her up again, and we have proved this in many ways over the past two years. And if you hope to find grey areas in our efforts, here's Rhodes. But let us first consider your own clearly black figures for the days of your policy. And I close with the third question: what are the objectives of setting up the examination? First of all, you are obvious: reveal the truth. The large foodstuff in the health sector has a significant share in the enforcement of the memos in the country. To give responsibility to all those involved in the destruction of public money and the collapse of the National Health System. To give justice at last. The ultimate aim of the examination is twofold: firstly, to understand the pathogens that have brought us here, the absence of control mechanisms, which allow immunity and opacity, the functioning of mechanisms which allow for the involvement and transaction of political and service bodies, with strong business interests. Secondly, to treat these pathogens, because we have a duty to the citizens, who have been poor in the years of the crisis, who have been deprived of access to public health, to collide and to succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. Mr Amyras, the party's parliamentary representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen - and I would like to particularly address my colleagues in SYRIZA and ANEL - I imagine you heard the President-in-Office's snitch. It was from here to the Lycabet. He said that the piranhas in health, which you referred to, Mr Papadopoulos, Mr SYRIZA's colleague, was a phrase by Mr Cremastinos when he was Minister of Health and Mr Kourublis was Secretary-General of the Welfare. Should we not, for piranhas and for the procurement law, which Mr Cremastinos said earlier, have never been implemented, learnt the truth from Mr Cremastino, who was, of course, a minister and from Mr Kurublis? So why do you suggest that you consider the period of fascism in health since 1997 and not since 1996? From 1993 to 1996 were you the Minister, Mr. Kremastine, and Mr. Kurublis was Secretary-General?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u78	Welfare Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u79	Sure. Mr. Kurublis will know a lot. He's a smart man. Aren't we going to call him? This is the 'all in the light'. All the rest is 'open - close' the light switch with my own interests. It's not like that. We therefore say that it would be more sensible to start research from at least 1996. Since 1993, I've been telling you. Let's go from 1821, as long as something comes out, learn and change the way health is structured and works where it takes. I cannot give another explanation for the short period of time that you propose - the Communism - for examination by the well-known spoon. Mr. Xanthos, the Minister of Health, said the other day that we are not all in the same bag. Of course we're not all in the same bag. That's all he was missing! But you won't decide for yourself. What are you afraid of? Clean sky, lightnings aren't afraid. I, if I were Minister, would be the first to say, during my time to examine it all, I have nothing to fear. Otherwise, it is battling the thing towards one side and the proposed examination is losing credibility already. What's the main thing? Let's see for the last two years what's changed to the health system. Has the procurement system changed? Is overpricing a past? Is the hospital equipment delivered on time? The piranhas, which we were talking about, disappeared from the rich 'biotop' of health? All this is gone in the last two years? I wish. Why don't we put it in our microscope and go out and make advertising of the new health system? Why not? To make things clear, then, Potami states that everything and everyone must be considered. As we voted in favour of the Special Parliamentary Committee on Defence Equipment and Mr Papantoniou, we are now in favour of investigating all health cases. Those who had public money parties in the sensitive health sector must be identified and accounted for in justice whether it is the case of either 2017 or 2001. "Everything in light" and by name is our place on the Potami, without political netting, without games of regular or micro-party. Not at the show, because there's no bread. Not in the communication countermeasures, because there are tax and pension measures - the known cuts - of EUR 3.6 billion. We do not want the Committee of Inquiry to function as a political laundry, as we have repeatedly seen in the past, but also as a parliamentary lifesaving in a government that is deceived. But I'm afraid these kind of initiatives end up in the void. Really, tell me, what good-looking citizen can he accept that the committee of inquiry, however well she does her work - which I hope - will be able to find details of cases that were actually a source of scandal 20 years ago? We'll give all our powers and I wish everyone would do it to find them. However, I would like to ask the following question: Who ensures that today, at the moment we are talking about, some do not reap from perforated sanitary systems of supply, control and operation of health facilities? In my opinion, personal, it would be more useful - especially for taxpayers - to set up a committee of inquiry on what we can do to shield public money from health cords, how we will form a system of procurement, so that Greek hospitals can no longer buy materials and equipment at prices more expensive than the rest of Europe, or to see for the same product different prices from hospitals, how the rules on expenditure in the National Health System and all competitions have broad publicity and transparency, thus better conditions for the public. This examination would be useful for health in order to stop the space being hostage to circuits. I have proposed this to you in the examination set up for the country's entry into the first two memos. Do you remember that? It was SYRIZA's revolutionary period. I participated in that examination, which went very sharply. As soon as we started calling the first political faces, he disappeared. That examination has been carried out for the reasons of the country's entry into the memoranda. You, SYRIZA MPs, because of curiosity, have not even dealt with yourself, have you not wondered what is going to happen to that examination? No, of course, because you saw that you brought your memorial, the third Memorial of Tsipras - Kammenos. And now we have the Memorandum - a liquor store of EUR 3.6 billion in wage and pension cuts. Therefore, the examination we are called upon today to decide can investigate past cases, but in practice it is an assumption - and indeed a celebrity - of the political system that it was unable to shield public money when it had to and cure problems and dark points in time. For example, we see that part of the proposal is to explore the CEDEFOP funds. Of course. No objections. What about the funds of the rest of the public sector? How do advertising expenditures of banks and the CECE share? Even today, party media or chiles to the media government receive the lion’s share. I am still waiting for the proposal made by Mr Drasakis - a commitment, so he had said it himself - that all the ECJs controlled by the State will announce where they have and what their advertising money criteria are. It has not yet been done, ladies and gentlemen, and you tell us about the CEDEFOP. Sure. You do well to talk about the CDC. For other public bodies, which even today, according to their beams, give state advertising, none of you will recover? Ladies and gentlemen, a little bit closer to the government's health responsibility, we have immigration. There if we have complaints of direct assignments, for supplies directly for hot spots, for recruitment, for allocation of funds, with at least grey procedures. Is this not part of our concern, too, so that we do not have to set up another committee of inquiry on migration funds in future? Because - I remind you - there are serious complaints about immigration from government officials who resigned from members of the SYRIZA, also from MPs from SYRIZA. The government will be responsible in particular if it is not interested in how public money is wasted in all places and not just in the health sector, where, of course, there is a privileged field for lobbies and smuggling. In search of the past, we must also not lose the forest of opacity that has surrounded us for decades. In conclusion, Potami says 'yes' to the Committee of Inquiry, 'no' to witch hunting. We say 'yes' in the investigation of all cases, but 'no' in hypocritical games, with the government in particular protagonists. And finally, let us decide how the political system will stop chasing its tail, by laying down rules that do not allow any passing minister to disintegrate or abuse public money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, I would like to ask a question on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u82	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, it is something that concerns the parliamentary groups. We have already had some initial discussions, but we all come to a common question. Very nicely, you mentioned the procedure decided by the conference this morning. We did not think, however, at the time to tell you - we are doing so now - how to vote. The proposal of SYRIZA and ANEL MPs and the proposal of the New Democracy Members has been tabled. We have tabled a proposal of our own, but our number is not sixty, so that it can be put to the vote. We therefore want the Bureau to make it clear - so that all the parliamentary groups know what attitude it will be to their Members - how to vote. So, are we going to vote on each other or the other? Are we going to vote on both of them? Are we going to vote in favour of one and the other in two votes? These are alternative procedural possibilities. Tell us what the Bureau's decision is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u84	The written decision is that the vote will take place at the same time as the list. As you know, of course, the sovereign House is Parliament and, if this is the case, it can change that. But that is the decision that I am reading to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u85	That does not answer the question I raised to you. Can one Member say 'I am voting for both' or should he say 'yes' to 'no' to the other'? What do we have to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u86	At the same time, as you know, this is my interpretation - I am voting for it rather than for it. That is the vote at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u87	That makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u88	Otherwise, he could vote for both proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u89	That makes perfect sense. However, because we do not have this clear - I have contacted four parliamentary groups who have the same question - Mr Voutsis must give an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u90	The answer is that, on the basis of the decision we have at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u91	So we vote on each other or the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u92	That's right. In the capacity of the former President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Papayannakis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u93	The question why the government excludes the two-year period 2015-2016 at least exists. The period of 2017 is very small. After all, Mr Minister, the examination of the two-year-old can also show pre-existing scandals, which, your great scalpel and perceptiveness have not brought them up. Why don't you take it? The reasons, of course, are obvious. It is, however, a matter of this. Why are you avoiding it? I would say, and by the way, because you raise the flag of purity, morality, consistency, etc., that you are not placed, because the placements are not just about what is going on within the Greek border. Greece, anyway, is part of international associations, has representatives. Why does it not bother you that there is no meeting dealing with the progress of the world economy, the International Monetary Fund, the OECD? And in Davos, too much talk is going on. Because it does not bother you that the health sector - apart from the armaments programmes - is considered an area where growth and profitability can take place. Indeed, as official documentary is said, as much as health investment increases, in the more developed capitalist countries there will be a reduction in health jobs by seven million jobs. That's the one. Secondly, why does it not bother you that for many years now, before a crisis, the term 'patient' has been replaced internationally by the term 'client', proclaiming the public - state, let us say - and the private health sector in the field of business activity? That doesn't bother you at all. That's because you have a mood toward philosopher. [[In this respect, the President-in-Office takes over one Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Anastassios Kourakis.]] Examination of the scandals has nothing to do with it - we will say it clearly - with the moral sensitivity of the accused - and I am referring to time and again - as, of course, the accused are not all victims of political construction. The committee of inquiry - I do not know which will be decided - can confirm some scandals. In no case can it be ruled out, nor are we in the mood to do so. In fact, however, the revelations also become and there is a further court and court, etc., the results will be used in competition between the government, the New Democracy and the other parties for the government chair. There, above all, will be used. They will be used as a window in a rotten system - the capitalist - that it may well be exalted. And definitely, they'll also lead to the redeal of the pie. Maybe the prefect can get out of the way and get another company in, because, as you know, that's how it happens in these cases. After all, scandals do not come out of any governmental control, nor of any popular, labour and such control. They come out in competition between companies producing medical tools, in general medical products. And in any case, we are given the opportunity once again to say that the controversy between the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the possible allies of one party before or after the elections - but with protagonists in any case, New Democracy and the PASOK - is a competition that will take even more escalating form in the next few years or years. It's on the same field and the same rules. And that cannot be called into question. Of course, the referee, the referees and the 'linesman' are spoken, and at the moment they are speaking in favour of the government, because they know very well that the SYRIZA - ANEL government can manipulate the people much better than the previous governments. However, it is uncertain - by the way - Mrs Asimakopoulou that they do not work that today's arbitrators and you, in the sense that they may think, when SYRIZA and ANEL decline, a government with a trunk of the New Democracy can come and have forgotten the mandate of the New Democracy and PASOK in previous years. This is not how it happened in July 1974, where they took forgiveness and the parties that came out of the EPE and the Union of Centres? But both the EPE and the Union of Centres were given an apology to the people's consciences, just because they did not contribute openly, they were against the dictatorship. That's the way things are, and that's why your competition will grow. Under no circumstances can we give any medal, or else I will say, no medal of moral consistency and transparency is the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, because they will bear - I am sure they will bring - new committees of inquiry in the coming years. Besides, this story has a past. They cannot take such a prize of moral consistency and transparency when the ministers of government and the Prime Minister come out and say that in 2018 we are coming out of the memorandums, in 2019 and 2020, new measures will come and will remain all the memorandum measures of the previous governments. Why believe you with your moral intentions in matters of health when your social policy is identified with arrays, coupons, charity and so on? And we have every right to question your sincerity and political morality - we are not talking about people, we have nothing to say - and we cannot give up morals - and indeed, left-wing, as you wish - when the SYRIZA party comes out and condemns the American attack in Syria, but the government has handed over Souda, it is making it easier for these attacks to take place, it is preparing for five years to expand the role of Souda in the region and the warshipman Minister of National Defence to offer new bases, in any case with at least the Prime Minister's agreement, if not the entire government. And most importantly, this - if you want - is that every day you are getting out more and more and say that the economic crisis in Greece is due to scandals created under the responsibility of government parties and certain ministers and so on. Tell me, find me an international economic forum or organisation, bring me economists, but also scientists that SYRIZA has - and they are professors on economic issues - who say that the economic crisis is due to scandals, an economic crisis that has been happening over the last two hundred years throughout the world and very recently in many countries and not only in Greece. That's the worst thing you've ever done. This is the worst service you offer the Greek people. Twice he went and cut ribbons now, the Prime Minister and the only conversation he said is that the crisis in Greece is due to corruption. Did you forget what you were saying when you were in the House? It doesn't matter if you had 4% or 5% or 6%. They do not teach them in the Political Economy of the Elementary and those who are supporters of the capitalist system. There's nowhere to be. And because they are considered to be leeches - badly, because I am very fond of these grasses - spoons, when you talk on television and when you speak inside the House, you are forged spoon for the Greek people, saying that the economic crisis is a product of corruption. Corruption also exists in conditions of development, sustainable as you say, both rapid and crisis situations. It's a argument. This is the worst service ever. By the way, we will of course never be familiar with any kind of scandal. But we do not make a distinction between the scandals of constitutional bogeymans, the international conventions and the decisions of Parliament, the illegal scandals, for which those who have been personally funded should go to prison. We have no sympathy for them. But at some point the time will come and the conditions will be met, where the people will condemn the legitimate scandals, the ones that have Parliament's bosom. It will also condemn those scandals from those parties that are made without any weight of personal enrichment. The biggest scandal is that the people pay the largest share of payment in health issues. The biggest scandal is that multi-pharmaceutical and multiple tests are pushed through the public health system. All this is legitimized. Scandal is that you are cutting off the multi-pharmaceuticals and multiple exams, not with element of scientific research, but on the basis of the memos. That's the point. And the last: There is something rotten by birth in the public health system in the conditions of capitalism. There is no concept of collectiveness. The patient must alone find out which hospital he's going to go to, which doctor he's going to choose, and the neighbor has to coordinate. Now we don't have the ranch. We also have these, but I would say that this is the least in front of the huge lists. One part of the hospital doesn't get in touch with the other, and you have to start over and get on the list when one of the doctors refers you to the other. That's how doctors have learned to work, too, individually. The patient needs to know five things about health issues, understand them or have relatives. In a word, I would like to say what is our essential difference, beyond the cost of health. We support health centres, primary health care, where their development - rather than what you are now building the structures, the extinction - takes into account the population, the composition of the population, epidemiologicality, the existence of industrial agricultural production, the child population, schools, schools, the elderly population, the women's population, the LEADER, the immigrants, the Roma and are responsible for all specialties. And dentist in primary health care and pharmacists and social workers and psychologists and health visitors and supportive administrative staff. To have full laboratory and diagnostic equipment, physicotherapy, pharmacy, and to operate on a 24-hour basis. What does it have to do with what you are now preparing, the health sectors for the regions with twelve thousand inhabitants? This is all - and I am ending - that is scandalous, because you are moving from centre to bottom cheap, half, impoverished health services, which can be free, but which will be insufficient and will be for the vast majority of the population, suffering from relative and absolute impoverishment, which will of course continue in 2019 and 2020 and in 2021 etc., until the people say their first and last word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u94	Thank you to Mrs Alexandra Papagiga, former Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u95	What's he gonna say 'likewise'? Whatever I am now. We're not good!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u96	I'm sorry. I also wanted to mention a quality, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u97	Whatever I am now. Congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u98	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I would like to ask a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u100	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u101	President-in-Office of the Council. - I asked how we are going to vote. I was given an answer that we will vote in a single language for both proposals, but against them either. Here, your partner shows me the decision of the conference, which says we can vote on both of them. I would ask you very much to get it clear from the Bureau in this House how we shall vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u102	The proposals are not contradictory. They can be characterised as complementary or as you wish. One Member may vote 'NAH', 'OH', 'APON' in one, 'NAH', 'OH', 'OH', 'APON' in the other. We could, if we were to, exhaust the list for one thing and redo the list for the other. You can understand that this would be a disgrace to the House. The name of each Member will therefore be given according to the list. We will ask what it votes for in the first, what it votes for in the second and we shall proceed like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u103	So he can vote both.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u104	It can vote both or reject both or one "NA" or one "NA".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u105	What if they both get over a hundred fifty-one votes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u106	Whoever wins.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u107	Whoever wins! That won't be the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u109	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u110	In order to resolve the point of order, as Mr Lovers rightly says - I am not saying that I will say it - I propose the following: the two proposals, regardless of whether they can have a common sense, in a sense that is contradictory. In the end, one proposal will apply. One proposal, because a committee will be able to make it. It should therefore be noted in one way or another what this proposal is, which applies or prevails. So my opinion and proposal to the Bureau are to go against it, to the extent that these proposals exist...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u111	That's the right thing to do, but they've made another decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u112	That is why I say that the Bureau will see it. I'm not imposing on the Bureau anyway. There is a possibility that both proposals will be taken by a majority. I'm telling the impossible case. In a situation like this, what happens?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u113	Understood. We will be coming back soon. Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, Mr Cremastino said the opposite of what you and Mr Vitsas say. In order not to have the evening at seven o'clock and at eight o'clock this whole procedural debate, it would be preferable for the Bureau to clarify it. Talk to the President and tell us what the final choice is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u115	We'll come back. Mr Konstantinos Bargiotas, Member of the PASOK-DIMAR Democratic Association, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been well documented that there has been a party in health - all the data have been reported since the morning - that from 2004 to 2009 it is well known that the second most important reason for the budget deflection was the deficit produced by the National Health System, in the way it was produced, for the reasons we have often discussed. All this is well known. We have been talking about them since 2009, and the truth is that there is not a large hospital or a large organisation in the territory where neither the prosecutors nor the Prosecutor of Corruption or the JHA are present, doing research and exploring this period. Today we are entering the constellation of the examiners, where the exam will investigate - and it will do - the political responsibilities and responsibilities of the persons involved in this story. I have to note that political responsibilities have been omitted, except for the ministers since 2014, but who from the government's proposal are protected - we will see why. I would like to say that we shall vote 'NAI' first' in the debate and in the recommendation for examination, because the debate on these issues is legitimate. It's probably compulsory. It could, subject to conditions, be useful and in simple Greek, it will be useful when suffering becomes lessons, when beyond the punishment or satisfaction of the public about the rightful feeling, which is very important and essential, comes from behind and correction. When the holes found in the system shut up, I say it very simply. When the institutional framework develops and is shielded and becomes something more operational, more democratic, more transparent. These debates are useful, therefore, as long as old sins are not pretenses for new sins. As I said before, the party on health is well known. We have discussed this in detail with numbers, responsible, politically responsible. It has been discussed too many times. The question is: Why now and why so? These are two questions which cannot be answered. Why in the 2017 Great Week, rather than the 2015 Great Week, which reminds me that Great Monday then we were discussing the Memorandum of Inquiry? Why didn't we pass the health review at that time? What's changed in the meantime? It's a story that ends, fat, long before 2014, at least its big part. And why until 2014? What changed after 2014? What is the essential difference in the institutional framework, the functioning and supplies of hospitals, which is currently making politically indifferent for discussion? What is the government's motive today? What's the need? What is she afraid of and protecting her ministers? Because it is obvious that it protects its ministers from any liability. The obvious answer to 'why now?' It's the juncture, obviously. There is no need for particular intelligence to understand that from the Thessaloniki Programme to the tax-free towel and the policies that are being implemented today, the government proves every day and more with this assessment, the other 3.6 billion, that it is the most anti-popular government within the memorandum. It handles the problem of the crisis in the most anti-grassy way, applying increasingly heavier cuts in the populace. And as a counterweight to this policy and this huge political contradiction of a government, which said completely different things before taking over and doing completely different things now, is scandalology. That's not a new one either. The tool of corruption and supposed interlocutory as a political tool is old. And for the government it's old. I would remind you that all the applicable drafts of the third memorandum were passed at the same time as the clearing sire at the television frequencies, which was known as the ending. Every time we passed a bill on the third memorandum, which is practicable, we also voted on a piece of the famous draft law on licences on channels. So the government chooses to open the matter now, just because it suits it in communication. There's no other motive. There's no other purpose. In fact, it also attempts with this examination, as with the previous one, to launch a mud, hoping that the mud will spread everywhere and cover both the tax-free and the pension towel and the selling of PPC and all the policies it has to implement, unlike what it said before. By 2014, however, do not fall apart, do not suffer any damage. We'll stop in 2014. "We are different," they tell the government. If they're really different in the government, they should have made reforms. They should have done what we said at the beginning - it is two and a half years in government to shield the institutional framework. Let me just say it, if you find CIA problematic, you change it or you close it. You don't keep handling it the exact same way you managed it before. Until now, we have seen neither vision nor program nor mood of change, appointments only. By the way, Mr Polakis, eighteen thousand seven hundred said and we still expect you to tell us where they are and who they are. They'll come, I hope, sometime in excel. So you're supposed to want to talk about ERIC until 2014, but he says. Why did it change? Has something changed since 2014? Was there a law that changes the CEDEFOP Statute, the way it works, shut up the holes I said before? Something changed? Clauses entered? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The only thing that entered was Mr. Paulakis at the meeting of his board of directors, making a mess of the process and driving those famous recruitments, which were necessary for the ICUs to operate in the winter of 2016, in a shipwreck. So this is perhaps one reason why we are not going after 2015, because it turns out that this government, the Left Government, is worse than the previous ones in the CEDEFOP. Because I cannot remember any Minister and any commander of the CEDEFOP in this way walking the problematic institutional framework of a large organisation and manipulating doctors' appointments as cynically as the latter. I would remind you that there are open disciplinary investigations and charges here. If that is the case, we open the debate by 2017, prove innocence and we are done. 'We are not discussing it' is a different situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u117	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u118	I'm done with this. I'll just make one comment. It is such a mood for institutional change, which we have seen in the last law, that we are constantly seeing. By way of derogation from each existing provision, it is the favourite phrase of many of the laws of this government, with the amendment to the latest law, in L.4461 on mental health where it is created, not CEDEFOP, if we assume that what Mr Paulakis says is true, even half, but ten times, a public limited company, is converted into a Swiss suffrage, which can, without any institutional framework, without any transparency save mental health companies, adopt NGOs, take money from the refugee, do JEPs, do everything "without prejudice to any existing procedure". So I think that the examinations of this type make sense when they're honest and they're looking to show, to illuminate the causes and weaknesses. They don't make sense when they're mudfighting with delightful goals. We really need both the fight against corruption and a better institutional framework, justice, transparency, modernisation of public administration. I think we need a new way of exercising power than a different standard of power. I fear, however, that this government is confusing all the negative aspects of post-populationism and remains in the championship of old-fashioned and hypocrisy. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u119	Mr Dimitrios Mardas, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, the decision to set up a Committee of Inquiry into Health has so far been heard by various considerations and designations. I am referring to some. Some have referred to mushrooms, that it is something for laughter, that we do, to cover what we are going to discuss in a few days, that we are throwing a committee of inquiry, so why again we have something in mind. The question is this: the US authorities have come and provided some evidence showing that there is at least a problem with a large pharmaceutical company. Would you be quiet? So would you leave it and say that we will look into it in time or in the context of whatever procedures we have will not deal with this? This committee should therefore, in fact, be set up. I'm coming to our point. First of all, according to a study that had been carried out in 2011 and was then announced - I will remind you of some figures, you may remember them - the cost of medicines and medical examinations, the medical operations in particular, cost the country EUR 9 billion. In Portugal, then, they cost EUR 4.5 billion, and in Spain forty-six million, they cost EUR 12.5 billion. That's 9 billion, 4.5 billion, 12.5 billion. That's all he's worried about. I'm coming to the supply room. In 1993 we had a directive of the European Union, which, within about thirty pages, introduced a framework for supplies of materials. The same happened in 2004, where some directives were consolidated and we had Directive 18/2004, which actually modernised the system by introducing electronic procurement systems and the most modern ones. This whole package of two directives between 1995 and 2011 caused this bureaucracy to the Ministry of Health, with regard to supplies. It is a bureaucracy that refers to the whole procurement for materials, where health materials are included plus decisions, circulars and everything else you can imagine. And as you know, of course, bureaucracy, as you used to say to the economy, is the cousin of corruption. The electronic procurement system in the country was established in 2001. This, in order to make its first start, after recurring novelty, I can tell you, a decade ago, it took almost twelve years. In 2001 another effort was made to make the country's procurement system more rational through MAGPs. Governments, which introduced this system, did so to be lost in a set of other decisions, in PTSY names changes in PSY names in PSY, from PSY to HSY, with changes in functions, so that a system collapses before it starts. We are, of course, reaching 2005, where, as has rightly been pointed out, a 25% reduction was made through FEK in some categories of materials, orthopaedics, cardiologicals, etc. Of course, the question is, before what happened. When we can and do a 25% reduction, imagine what happened. Is the correct reduction procedure followed? Of course not. Your committee had said then make a tender so you can see what's going on in the procurement market and get out of that price. You chose to ask the various clubs so that you could get some prices. However, the clubs do not see the interest of the State, they see the interest of their members, so that the 2005 prices again are high. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. This was seen at the Supply Observatory, which was a very right act, but which was set up again in a distorted context, so that this distorted framework can now be corrected. This is the route to a system, which has led to expensive supplies. And if you wish, it would be advisable - we will be discussing this in committee - and perhaps it would be necessary to implement a mechanism of twelve years, according to the standards of the ILO, to some hospital administrators and, possibly, to some other state officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Marda. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, although a parliamentary representative this time may be the first time that I will not generalise by making political references to the overall government policy, even though the aspect of the agreement that is imminent gives me cause for concern. And above all, it gives me the opportunity to remember Minister Spirtzi, who, on 20 February 2017, now, when the government agreed with the Troika that they would agree had said "the end of austerity" and had designated that day as a balance in value with the release of the Ioannina. Will we wait for him in this House, when the agreement comes, to tell us this agreement and this day, which will be voted out on what other day of our national history is? It's really going to be very important to see the deal then and talk about it then. Talking about measures before they come here, however, is a trap for the ignorants, not for those who understand. So let's go to the essence of today's subject. We have said 'yes' to transparency, 'yes' to everything, light to everything. But everything. The question put to us, which we have been ministers and to our party, a government party, many times is: These are you, ladies and gentlemen, are you saying them now that you are in the minority, in the opposition, or were you also speaking as a majority of this House? With the power of examples, the answer is one: we talked about them as a majority of the House. Mrs Christophilopoulou reminded us this morning that we agreed in the Committee of Inquiry into the economy to include the first memorandum on our own government, with the majority at the time. This is our practice and we continued it, and when we were in the government and had the majority of the House and then, when we became a party to the opposition, not the officer. The same attitude, because it stems from the same principles and values. For example, the majority proposal came after 2015 for an examination of the memorandum. We said 'yes'. And we warned them about the memorial coming. "No, it will not come," said SYRIZA and ANEL MPs at the time. That memorial is here. The commission is gone. We suggested that she continue to understand all periods. Silence! Quiet, though. Not a single explanation, because that committee should not continue after the September 2015 elections. The proposal for a pre-inquiry on equipment came in. Although we said the procedure was wrong - I said it from this Step and said that there is a problem here - majority MPs moved their heads positively and, indeed, MPs who had a role in the debate that day. When the Prime Minister took the floor at night he referred to me, saying that I used a two-cost argument. As long as we don't understand, we call it negative. But yesterday, Mr. Dimitris Philis, a well-known lawyer and former member of the board of directors of the AAC, wrote what I said in the editor's Official Journal, that the procedure that you propose is a process...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u123	You didn't just say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u124	You said it yourself. I just didn't know if you authorized me to say your name. I can't use it if I don't know if you want to. You said so too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u125	Mrs. Bakoyannis stole it from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u126	I didn't steal it. I mentioned the fact that you said it, but I was afraid you'd be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u127	However, I said it from the Step of the House, speaking as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance. So, yesterday, Mr. Friend comes to tell you that what you did stops and delays for a while - for three months - for a very long time and put the proceedings in criminal justice. What procedures? Those that we introduced in 2011: Venizelos, Miltiades Papaioannou, Harry Kastanides, the three ministers who decided to separate the offences of the ministers from the ministerial offences, adapting to the case law, as you rightly said. I am tabling the text by Mr Philly, so that those colleagues who were shouting at us could see it when we tabled these opinions here. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] 'Yes' to transparency, so 'yes' to everything! But yesterday, in the pre-examination committee, a large majority of four parties, with the other four on the other hand, rejected my proposal to be, not only public, but also open to the TV of the House. You voted that there should be no publicity and that the people who are interested, who are interested, should not listen to what is said there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u128	In the preliminary interrogation, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u129	Please, my arguments were both political and legal. So don't tell me your legal arguments. The New Democracy has proposed and voted for it, set up a committee of inquiry into capital controls. You said 'no'. And today, to be consistent with the opaque approach of yourself, to say about others, not them for you, you say 'no' to the review of the 2015-2017 period. Why? What do you mind? What are you afraid of? Explanations that we are not the same as others are right. Because we are not the same and fortunately we are not the same. Imagine if we could look like you. But that is not a political argument. These are cafeteria arguments, while the cafeteria is bored, not when it deals with its issues. The substance is one: Why do you not want it to be the examination of things for the period 2015-2017? Mrs Christophilopoulou also said so, and I will not say any of what our rapporteur said. I will only talk about one issue: there is a law in 2015, I think Mr Georgiadis, which imposes two annual invoices of medicines. For those who do not know, any invoicing at that time meant undervaluation, and it may even be. Each invoicing means that the prices are being lowered. So it was two a year. One was on December 14, that is to say, 15 days in 2015 - it goes in 2015 - and all its positive actions related to 2016. A year has come, ladies and gentlemen! You cannot tell me that the committee of inquiry will not consider this. You have arguments. One Minister says 'we did not have time'. The Minister and not his assistant at that time, in an interview, which I am not sure whether what he said is exactly what was written, said that the troika told him not to invoice. So we're gonna call the troika in forensics to tell us that. So, what if the troika told him? Since the law stipulates otherwise, that nothing like this has happened. See the price differences resulting from the invoicing you made on your own at the end of 2015, to understand the size of the gift. But you are not just evil for the period 2015-2016 until today. You are wicked and for the start of the examination of things. Why, ladies and gentlemen, should it not be from the reference year of all of us, which is 2009, when expenditure at all levels reached its peak? You go to 1997, so that there is no specific issue concerning your political partners, whether they participate in the government or not. To blur water go to 1997, not because you want to consider a longer period. You are also vicious in something that I say, ladies and gentlemen, only with its title, because I still do not have the information I need to obtain: none of your rapporteurs here mentioned it and it seems to be none of your concerns, although they have spoken to the majority of four or five colleagues. No one spoke of the benefit of the period of prosperity of this sad level, namely corruption and waste. Corruption and waste were beneficial, not only were companies, but they were professionals, doctors, pharmacists and managers of pharmaceuticals who sold products. There were too many of them. A list has been found by Mrs. Ryku. Mrs. Ryku resigned by her letter. But instead of saying that you're struggling to see what he said, the Justice Minister beat her here. I'm overdoing this because we've said it before. We hear you're interested in this list of doctors. Why do you care? Is there a political problem with the doctors' list? All this is a matter of time to come here. Ladies and gentlemen, this government does not do, but speaks. And the Committee of Inquiry is a way of speaking. I do not go into the problem and discuss whether or not he does it for distraction. No one's dealing with this. They deal with those who are in the field of politics and do not have what to say, because they do not. What don't they do? I was telling the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction in the past few days: 'Tell me, have you done something like the ASAP, like the Citizen's Counselor, like the collective negotiations in the public sector, like the 'CAPTER'? Do you have anything to show? Do you have one offer these two and a half years?" Ladies and gentlemen, they are more ruling than the first government of Papandreou. It's more in the government than the government of George Papandreou. It's a month or two more. Do you have anything to be proud of in the Ministry of Public Administration? Nothing but appointments. Let's go to health. Tell me something equal to the ESS you've done. I have heard the Minister - I do not remember whether he was the Minister or the deputy - who said that the EEAY is a one-stop shop, and that should be exploited by the government. That's right! I didn't make it because since 2012 it's been a monopsy. I left in May 2012. But I made the EPPY. And it was half the New Democracy in the Ministry's occupation and the rest of the opposition! And for one month the center of the ERC, the Ministry, was occupied and prescribed abundantly. You didn't know who he was prescribing, what he did, because they said no to the monopsy which allows the EOPY to negotiate a lot with the companies and a variety of different drugs or materials. Did you say anything in favour of rebate? You've only been saying. You're applying it. For clawback you were against. And you extended it to all the materials. Did you say anything about the invoicing that took place at that time on the basis of the many invoicings we made, which were priced? I would also like to mention the previous ministers from me, such as Mrs Katseli, Mrs Xinoyanakopoulou, but also the next ministers for health - because I had transferred the responsibility of invoicing to the Ministry of Health - such as Mr Lycharenzos, Mr Salmas, Georgiadis and Mr Vorides. Did you say anything about that period and your attitude then? You were against. And for e-prescription you were against. Did you say anything about ESY.net? Have you done anything equal to this, so you can control the movement of hospitals? Have you done anything to eliminate the list of OECD shame, which we limited to the extent that this whole community recognizes? For the electronic auctions? Let them tell us a measure that can be compared to measures at that time. There's nothing at all. Only words that hide the absence of policies. For reasons that hide the fact that this government has not presented anything for about two and a half years. In closing, do you have anything to present, such as financial prosecutors, anti-corruption prosecutors? These are our decisions, governments' decisions in the first period of the economic crisis. Nothing! [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] You have fought with reality, Minister, because reality is your enemy. And by "finding, find, find something left," you won a while. Now nobody listens to you. Now, what citizens expect is to see from what you do what concerns them, and how bad you have done for them. For all the rest, no matter how much yelling, no matter how much you cut, no matter what you want to say, you don't have a audience. It is the people who are reassuring, at more than 90%, that they now believe that what you say about negotiation and what you say about what you are doing has only one purpose, to hold on to power. But your days are counted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Loverdos. Mr Panayotopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a big Wednesday and we are here on the same boring work as spectators. Impression and distraction articles, so that the people are not involved, or rather less involved. Why, you have no doubt, that it is very concerned with the government's sad performance, with the collapse of the economy by a mixture of overtaxation and ideology, which have killed everything on the market, with the evaluation, which, instead of the end of austerity, is probably bringing the beginning of a fourth memorial, worsening everything and health. I would remind you that last year, we heard that after Easter, growth was enough. In January the Prime Minister promised “not a new euro for the period after the end of the programme”, i.e. after 2018, but 3.6 billion will be implemented by others. MacGia. In December 2016, the Prime Minister set the end of the agreement by mid-2018 and what happened? A new memorandum, in fact without funding, but with measures. Red lines? Leave it better. And the International Monetary Fund, and no provision for debt relief, and reduction of pensions, and duty-free reduction and legislation for 2019 and 2020, and maintaining a surplus target of 3.5% of GDP, all instruments. Because the only serious attempt to negotiate, gentlemen of the government, is to convince your own inner audience. That is why you come to discuss the agreement first in your party and then in Parliament. Why will the package come to Parliament if Mr. Friends is not convinced first? So how do you fight this sad shipwreck when you don't have what to do or have you not done what you should have done? I remind Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, Minister for Health, in March 2015, of thousands of recruitments. How many of them have become in the health field? They're ahead of another type of recruitment. When you don't know what to do, then you do probes, not to check everything out, but to check on the others. Not for the discovery of the whole truth, but for the pressure on your political opponents and attempted disorientation in society. At one time, in the past, on the occasion of frequent and deliberate exercise by parliamentary majorities of the right to propose committees of inquiry, there was talk of the criminalisation of political life. Now, the pattern has changed, we should talk about the moralization of political life. They supposedly denounce the moral advantage with sacred indignation and at every opportunity - see one more opportunity - the old system define themselves as the new and incorruptible and arbitrarily demarcate the committee's control period so that it includes everyone except themselves. Since the baptisms are fashionable these days, let me also make a "baptism". I would like to call this examination 'a little while ago by Mr Kurublés'. Because for you, the exploratory period must begin when this person stops from the Ministry of Health as Secretary-General of Welfare PASOK, and must stop immediately before that person returns to the Ministry of Health, as a Minister of Health SYRIZA this time, when you get up as a young and incorruptible, before the active twin, of course! Why are you doing this? I wonder. Mr Kourublis himself, in his honor, states that he has no objection to the inspection of his term of office at the Ministry. Besides, the Secretary-General was then, when welfare was subject to the Ministry of Health, it was likely to have some political influence, but did not participate or sign decisions in the field of health at that time. So why are you doing this? The Ministry's services, suppliers, health players, potential participants in cases being investigated by justice at the moment, with the object that we need to investigate, do not come and go along with the political leadership in question. So why would some people be on the outside? I'm asking. I also give the answer: Firstly, because, in your opinion, only the others, that is, the political opponents, must be controlled. And secondly, because if everyone is controlled, that is to say, your ladies and gentlemen of the government, then there will also be other interesting issues to be investigated: not only, for example, the scandalous failure of the SYRIZA Government to issue a price report in 2015, omission which, as a material result, has benefited from certain pharmaceutical companies, with medicinal products whose patents expired in 2015 and therefore had to be chosen other cheaper, but they have not been chosen and remained the same, with lost patents, but also another case, whose file has already been sent to Parliament, on the basis of the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, because it has been cross-checked the file with the names of today's political leadership. This is, of course, the case of illegal recruitment to CEDEFOP, following the actions of the Ministry's political leadership, which have already been subject to criminal prosecution to a degree of crime, to specific persons. So why not check this case? Doesn't it have to do with the health field? Our proposal, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy proposal, says that everything should be considered now, and the CCCTB over time, and medical expenses and supplies of medical devices and NOVARTIS, because - I remind you - the resignation of the Prosecutor of Corruption days ago, with serious complaints of attempting to block its work. To check everything, to examine everything and, if it comes to light, to give them up where they have to and those responsible to suffer the consequences, of course. But look at everything, not just what suits you. Because if we look only at what is suited to you, you are deceiving in practice what you so zealously seek in words, namely the investigation of the truth, and in this way, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, I am very afraid that once again we have lost the account - you are proving yourself inferior to the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Panayotopoulos. The floor is held by the Chief of Officer's Representation, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people must know exactly where we are and what has so far been agreed on the second assessment. And this must be done in the Greek Parliament, because this is the natural area of a democratic state. And the truth can't wait any longer. I'd like to start by reading a quote of an older speech. I'll tell you who that speech is, although I imagine you'll already guess it. I read: 'At the beginning, the government assured us that there will be no new measures. Then he begins to retreat, talking about measures, but not painless. Later they say surprisedly "But, how cruel this troika is in the end!" Finally, they're a little interrupted by conversations to rethink it. And what ends almost always in this thousands of dramatization ring? At the known end of the naughty retreat, self-immigration and tradition.’ [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You know who said that, I guess. Tsipras Alexis Tsipras on November 29, 2014. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Except that the second assessment, as it is evolving, is not just a "great retreat, self-immigration and tradition", but is the Vaterlos of a sad governance and together it is the proof that the past is avenged and that the political lie of the present produces possibly a national tragedy for the future. The government is trying to present the supposed negotiation about as a national triumph. Some celebrated the end of austerity. But the citizens must know exactly what has been agreed, because behind the front of the white tobacco that came out in Malta there is, of course, very grey. Three things: First, the measures that seem to have been agreed are painful for all Greeks, but even more painful for our weakest fellow citizens and violate every red line of government. Secondly, the delay in the negotiation has been and continues to cost the real economy enormously. Thirdly and worst, the government commits the country for years after the end of its term of office, without even winning any tangible gains either in debt or in primary surpluses. The country's future is promised by creditors as a countermeasure. A countermeasure for the unreliability of those currently ruling, i.e. SYRIZA - ANLE. And it is, unfortunately, the only real countermeasure, the countermeasure for the damage that the rulers continue to do in the country and inside and out. The truth is tough and even harder the numbers are. The measures agreed for 2019 and 2020 are 3.6 billion. These are added to the 9 billion measures already taken by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. It took 12.5 billion new measures, while you had 12 billion undisturbed and no contraction in Thessaloniki. Balance of terror and destruction! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have already agreed, as it seems, duty-free in the vicinity of EUR 6 000, a little above or a little below and, of course, the abolition of the personal difference in pensions. This means quite simply that a citizen who today declared income of 8,000 euros annually will pay a tax of about EUR 450 where he did not pay anything from 2019. And it also means that a retired person will see the twelfth pension lost, possibly the tenth for some, where you paid the thirteenth pension. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The lie has short feet and it doesn't go far. Sadly, however, the country is nowhere with this and with this. I'm on my way to energy. The Government accepted the sale of PPC's units corresponding to 40% of the company's production power. You who were fighting the model of "little PPC" accepted, precisely, that and after you spent two years deceiving the Public Power Corporation with your unscrupulous policies. May I remind you where the PPC stock was two and a half years ago in 2014? It was 12 euros. Do you know where it is today? It's 2.9 euros, that is four times down. And ultimately, who is favoured by the devaluation of the company, if not its competitors? As far as the much-advertised countermeasures of the government are concerned, we have heard a great deal about them. It is, admittedly, struggling, almost touching, I would say, your attempt to present the new package of measures as budgetaryly neutral. Only one more lie, because countermeasures will only apply if they are exceeded - I repeat, only if they are exceeded - the 35% surplus targets, while the tax reduction and the pension cuts will apply anyway. One more thing. I have one more question. I really don't understand why you're celebrating a forecast that existed in all the memos. Because in the second memorandum, it was possible to take budgetary relief measures if the objectives were to be achieved. That is precisely what I should like to remind you - the previous government did, by reducing VAT on catering, insurance contributions, heating oil tax, a solidarity levy, for which it was scheduled to be abolished until you maintained it and increased it. And we did all this without the agreement of the troika. We did this without celebrating. You celebrate without even having done it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, unfortunately, the government has nothing to present at all to justify the delay of a whole year in closing the evaluation. And I ask the simple question: if the evaluation had been closed a year ago, as planned, would the price for Greek citizens be higher or lower? Because it is the Greek citizens who pay the very heavy price of SYRIZA - ANEL government pragmatism. Of course, everyone knows the answer today. You don't even know what you want to do with it. Or rather, all you want is to stay in power in every way, at all costs, at every means, as much as possible. Why is that? The only negotiation, which Mr Tsipras is trying to make, is with the components and the barons of SYRIZA, a pitiful process which, in fact, is taking place in common sight, as is the case with PPC in the background of always the collapse of the Public Power Corporation. For months now we have warned, in all tons, from this Chamber that the delay in completing the negotiation would have extremely negative consequences for the real economy. The facts have unfortunately been rightful to us. The recession is back. A fall at the end of 2016 and very bad messages from the market for the first quarter of 2017. Lost jobs. According to ELSTAT's latest labour force survey, over a hundred forty-four thousand jobs were lost in four months in October 2016-January 2017. The liquidity in the economy disappears. Again we had bank outflows - 2.5 billion in the first two months - household red loans instead of falling, increasing, and the state has again declared an informal payment stop to private individuals. Investments are made with the dropper. No one trusts a government that does not believe in real reforms, which others agree and which does not follow its word in any way. The draft law on the extrajudicial compromise, which is currently being discussed in the committee responsible, is a typical example of how the government understands the reforms: a bureaucratic, inappropriate set of provisions, which all the institutions who came to your committee say will not solve the problem. He's just going to relocate it for the future, so the next government can deal with it. The country's situation is tragic and its position is extremely vulnerable. Everyone knows that the target for growth of 2.7% has already been lost. We'll be lucky if we get to 1.5%. This also risks calling for additional measures not only for 2019 and 2020, but also for 2018. Because everyone knows that the measures that you agreed poorly in Malta would not have been required if the country had stayed on the development track in 2014. Of course, not even a year ago, when the second assessment should have been completed, no one dared - I repeat - to ask for additional measures for 2019 and 2020. You've muddyed the economy. You've sinked the country. And instead of flying a lifesaving, you're going to drown the citizens, unfortunately - and I'm sorry to say it - often with the silent agreement of the institutions that tolerated the wrong mix of fiscal policy and who close the eye today in overtaxing productive Greece so that SYRIZA can fund its party state. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Even worse, however, as you handled things seem to have given the International Monetary Fund the final role of appraising the performance of the Greek economy. And, of course, the reservations of the Fund for the achievement of the budgetary objectives are well known. For many, you screwed up and took the country to the bottom. I would remind you that in the third quarter of 2014 the Greek economy was one of the champions of growth in the Eurozone. The fourth quarter of 2016 is Uragua, only country from eighteen at a negative rate of growth. These are your achievements. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm filing the relevant table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the bottom that Mr Tsipras led us to, and this is the bottom that is in danger of the whole country being trapped. That is why the Government has agreed to legislate in advance on essential measures for the aftermath of the third programme. To tell you quite simply, you have accepted from the beginning of 2017 that the country will not have come out of the crisis or in 2019 and you have not won anything specific in the medium-term debt measures. You have enclaved the country into high primary surpluses for many years, because that is exactly what you agreed on in the summer of 2015. I should like to sum up, therefore: You have asked for a regulation on the debt without measures and you have taken measures without any regulation on the debt and, indeed, without any guarantee of funding after 2018. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Fourth memorial without money. That's what you agreed to. You had a choice between capturing and elections. You chose the codification, but you won't avoid the election. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do you really think the next ones will pay him? However, the citizens are aware: the reduction in duty is signed by Tsipras - Kammenos. The reduction in pensions has the signature of Tsipras - Kammenos. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The reduction of the income available has the signature of Tsipras - Kammenos. Citizens paid you and they pay you. And you arranged for them to pay you, and since you're no longer in power. In order for there to be hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the country can come out of the austerity and recession, political change must come as soon as possible, political change in all, in the words, in the works, ethos, mentality, effectiveness, a political change that will bring back to the country the truth, trust, merit, accountability, accountability, will bring the country's creative forces out of the crisis with a comprehensive national plan of change and reforms, in order to boost the Greek economy and to reliably claim a better and safer future for the country after the end of the Third Programme, so that we can regain the respect of the country by the partners, in order to guarantee the return to European regularity. This mission cannot be carried out, because you simply don't have the necessary political chapter anymore. No one is serious about a deceiving government. Everyone knows you have nothing else to give. You're a government on a run-in. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Every minute you stay in power is a lost minute for the country, a country that only if it comes back to rapid growth, will be able to negotiate on another basis its national interests, national interests which you will ultimately not serve, because all you know about doing is scatter hatred. Feed from the intensity and retain from the split only for communication reasons and for the purposes of the theatrical performance you set up each time. Only the country needs a credible Prime Minister and not a director of blind conflicts! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You want to turn Greece into a vast court for yesterday, because you very simply cannot make it a big construction site for tomorrow. So stop building enemies! Stop seeing conspiracy theories everywhere! And finally, it's not your fault of the Opposition! It's your inability! That is why we are telling you again: the request for elections is not linked to the completion of the evaluation. And if what happens, which today is the most likely scenario, the country will continue to crawl. Greece needs a dynamic restart and our destiny is not specified. And I would remind you of something else that you will find interesting, ladies and gentlemen, and listen to it: In July 2014, Mr Tsipras said in a speech: "The 30% that the two parties assemble..." - in polls then - "... co-governing, wants to decide about the whole country and, above all, to commit the next government for many decades. It is not politically and morally legitimate to take decisions." How much are today SYRIZA and ANEL? I'll let you find it yourself. Well, it's under 30%. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] And if 'consistency' was not a word missing in Mr Tsipras's vocabulary, you would have done what you have to do for some time now. You'd have led the country to elections. It is a precondition for its recovery and the earlier this happens, the better for the place. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the agenda for the sitting, things are also very simple. We have the Committees of Inquiry - as we now have on health - unable to offer and cover failures and errors in all areas. But let's stick to the point. Health is in a worse state today than ever. Hospitals are only detained thanks to the self-renunciation of doctors, nurses and administrative staff. I would like to thank them once again from the Step of the House and congratulate them on the disgrace with which they are doing their work. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Primary care is falling apart. For two and a half years you have tabled an amendment for primary care and all, without even the necessary funding. The debts of the insurance funds to the EEA are increasing. As your opposition, I remember shouting for the 5 euros from those who introduced to hospitals. Of course, we had, at the time, excluded the financially impossible. You yelled for the 5 euros. What did you do as a government? You increased all contributions by 2%. As your opposition, I remember talking about a change in the administrative model of public hospitals. And as a government, what did you do? You have dismissed the governors through a procedure that has been cancelled in the Council of State and you will now charge the State with compensation. In the area of e-government, an extremely important tool for reform and transparency in the health sector, everything remains static. Nor did you manage to replace, strengthen the fleet of the existing incapacitated ambulances. Last week in Halkidiki, a fellow citizen died. Wait two hours to get the ambulance. The tragedy was repeated the day before yesterday. Did any of you feel the need to ask for an apology?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u134	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u135	It's not funny, you know, dying together, ladies and gentlemen. It's not funny at all. Hold your laughs, then. Even in relation to the new ESDP, there is a risk that projects in the health sector will not be financed because the competent services of the European Union do not approve the strategy presented by the Ministry. Wherever we look, there's a picture of decline, inertia and incompetence. All you say is that the ESS now covers uninsured people, while the reality is that this arrangement is not yours, but it has been in force since 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u136	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u137	Lies and petty in this, as in all, as in the recent opening of major motorways. The recipe is well known and sufficiently old-fashioned. You are trying to hide the fiasco of your own failure in the arena of Scandalology, always pulling out in front of well-known ethos and media styles so that there is no doubt either of the intentions or of the orchestra of the whole project. Do you really think that you'll put us in a difficult position with the exams? You're just tired. Do you want an exam? We agree. We have no objections. All in the light. To investigate everything. Do you want us to sign too? With you. But on one condition, two more time periods will come in. It will also enter 1996 and the last two years will enter the years of your own governance. As far as 1996 is concerned, I have a question. In what sense do you start the examination since 1997, a completely arbitrary milestone? If you want us to catch the whole Simitis period, shouldn't we start from 1996? Why since 1997? I'll tell you why. The reason you want to avoid in 1996 is why, at the time, the Minister of State was Secretary General of the Ministry. And to avoid the control of the Kurubli period, cut one year from the Simitis period. Ingenious, I can't say! But you know, gentlemen of SYRIZA, when you opened the door to the orphans of Chohatzopoulos and to various wanderers of PASOK, you took together, package and responsibilities and you will apologize for them. And if you think you have nothing to hide, behold Rhodes. Very simply accept our proposal, put in 1996 to check both the works and the days of Mr Kurubli. And if there is no mebton, to use Mr Pappa's expression of his exotic trips with private lift jets and fine company, the better for everyone. But your refusal says something. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As far as the last two years are concerned, however, we consider this to be a matter of fundamental political and moral order, especially when it has already been sent from justice to the House in cases concerning this period and any acts of offences of ministers. And these issues, I would remind the House, are not at all relevant: Price sheets of medicines which were not issued, harming the public, public tenders which have been abolished arbitrary, illegal decisions which have been taken in the courts, criminal prosecutions to the extent of a felony to officials who, however, carried out orders from the political leadership. Do you really think explanations should not be given? Come on, and show that you have nothing to fear. And I repeat: do it and we will be voting in favour of your proposal. But you won't. You won't. You already told us. Do you know why? Because you don't care about the truth at all. You only care about the impressions. And secondly, because you know very well that for your time you have been dirty in your nest. So the last people in this Chamber who can deliver good administration lessons are you. Let's go remember some things and first of all what your attitude was to a series of health interventions which reduced health expenditure and strengthened transparency. So let's go see how you've beenhaved in the past. The imposition of penalties was established for doctors who exceeded the prescription limits and for pharmacists who did not use the cheapest generic medicine. SYRIZA didn't vote for it. We and the previous PASOK government have reduced their drug spending by EUR 3.5 billion at a very significant political cost. SYRIZA as opposition voted against all measures aimed at cutting the cost of drugs. Most importantly, your Government - Minister, Mr. Kourublis - did not issue a price report for 2015 in order to make this price reduction. Why is that? Who benefited from this decision? Do you not consider it useful and crucial to explore this aspect by the Committee of Inquiry? We had prepared invitations to tender for the medical expenses of hospitals. You canceled them, so that today hospitals are supplied with much more expensive medicines. I would like to ask you, who has benefited from this decision? Should this aspect of the matter not be investigated by the Committee of Inquiry? Ladies and gentlemen, if the government really wanted to combat corruption in the health sector, it could have taken a number of measures. In 2014, the Ministry of Health was presented with the proposal of the Working Party on Combating Corruption in Health. It's a dense, extremely thorough, 100-page text. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. It included this text a number of suggestions. For example, I only mention the lengthening of the time for derogating offences and the conversion of criminal offences related to corruption, the introduction of stricter criminal, but also disciplinary, penalties, in particular, the introduction of more rapid procedures for disciplinary prosecution and the functioning of disciplinary councils - an extremely painful health story - and the establishment of these disciplinary councils by judicial officers, the strengthening of control mechanisms, the possibility of exchanging information among themselves, the establishment of a special procedure for the control of financing and sponsorship of pharmaceutical companies. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above text, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] How many actions did you take from them? None, because you're not interested in transparency. What you are interested in is pretending to be using transparency to throw mud. However, since you are going, and at some point we will come and table some additional proposals from the New Democracy, because there are many that can be done to improve transparency in the field of health, which can be done soon, within the first hundred and eighty days. For example: Publication of quantitative and qualitative information on the functioning and effectiveness of public and private hospitals. Very important. Development of the electronic prescribing tool with emphasis on quantity control - I repeat, quantity - of prescription medicines. Absolute transparency on issues such as access to OSH lists and in intensive care units beds. Link to the extremely important initiative of the Open Government Partnership - the OGP - on open data policy in public health bodies. To tighten sanctions for pharmaceutical companies and pharmaceuticals that do not adopt internal procedures and anti-corruption tools. And, of course, a central redesign of the health procurement system using framework agreements, new standards and simplification of procedures. Transparency, ladies and gentlemen, is guaranteed through mechanisms of control and decision-making that operate in the light and with respect for public money. Do you want transparency? I have already mentioned several proposals. Go ahead in this direction. But it is clear that all of what I have told you is none of your business. On the contrary, either through your decisions on the non-issuance of a list of medicines or with the inertia you display, you are eventually becoming the best servants of health interests. Because that is what you are ultimately: a power to stand still and maintain bad texts throughout the country. You're not the ones who will drive out the old. You're protectors of the old and you proved to be older than the old. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close with this point: many words are often poverty. And it is true that Mr. Tsipras has only brought poverty. He has brought poverty to the citizens and, of course, a lot of mud to his political opponents. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The place has suffered from division. You willfully and irresponsibly cultivate him, seeing him as a political weapon, as the last of all, a refuge for your political survival. You seek the poverty of society and the perpetuation of the crisis, because you can only exist through it. In Greece of normality you have no role. The country deserves something much better than you. We guarantee the overcoming of the crisis, the great fleeing toward, the definitive rupture with its pathogens yesterday, the real hope. Real hope is the hope of truth and the truth of hope for all, but first of all, for young people. Above all, however, we have a debt. I personally have a duty to unite all the Greeks, and that is why our party will do everything. We must finally leave behind the artificial divisions and the hatred that is cultivated, the myth of envy and discrimination - that is what keeps us all behind - and to put Greece back into orbit that can bring it into a better future. We know very well that it won't be easy. And it will not be easy because the fingerprints of your political choices will accompany us for several years since you've returned to the chairs of counterpopulation. But one thing is certain: With hard work, serious, reliable and responsible, we will earn lost time and make the Greeks proud again, we will make the Greeks optimistic again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the High School of the Netherlands Pantarijn. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speech has just been made by the Minister for Finance, Mr Chakalotos. Just because for a long time, as it was all right, the Chief of Staff Representation referred to the recent negotiation and agreement, apparently feels the obligation to give some clarification. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. As you know, Mr President, I do not like the political opponents to say that they are lying how much I think they are liars. So I'm going to restrain myself and say inaccurately in the speech of the President of Officer's Resistance. Inaccurate number one is that the labour market is going badly. I do not know what information Mr Mitsotakis has, but I know from 'ERGANI' that in March we had a positive recruitment balance of thirty-eight-dollar departures, which was the record of the month since 2001. And not just that. I know that we have had an increase in jobs that are permanent and a reduction in these jobs that have been temporary or non-permanent and that in the last fifteen months, jobs have increased by 50 000. But it seemed to me that in his speech Mr Mitsotakis said nothing about the working part of the negotiation, that we have negotiated to return collective agreements, not to increase collective redundancies, not to exist in the lock out law, all of what you say 'left idealism'. In other words, we have told the workers not only that we will increase jobs, but that these jobs will also have serious wages. Why would they have serious wages? Because there will be the negotiation to reverse the climate of workers who supply the Golden Dawn and Le Pen and all the extreme people's right-wing forces who work and live on the image that the workers and they are victims of the crisis and do not participate in development. That is why I say to you that these extreme right-wing forces are the result of the policies you and the European People's Party have supported for thirty years. In short, ladies and gentlemen, you are the disease that has confused itself with treatment. Let's go to the second inaccuracy. He said that the countermeasures would go in - and that is exactly what your President said - only if there is more than 3.5%. In other words, you think that if it is 3.5% of the forecast for 2019 we will take 1% of material measures, so the target will be 4.5%. Is that possible? Don't you get it? Diaselblum has explained it, Moscovisi has explained it. If we are within the objectives and forecast in 2018 that 2019 will be at 3.5%, there will be 1% positive measures and 1% negative measures. So you say serious inaccuracies when you say that good measures, countermeasures, there will only be overrun. Please don't say it again. That's exactly what Mr. Mitsotakis said. Let me tell you what Mr. Diaselblum said? Mr Diaselblum said that because positive measures, bad measures as he says, will be done anyway, when it is 3.5% in 2019, the forecast for 2020 will be 5.5%, because we will also get 1% for taxfree and 1% for pensions, so there is 2% space for good measures. That's what Dieselblum said. It's exactly what I said and exactly the opposite of what your Chief said. But it still seems to me that he did not say anything about positive measures. Ladies and gentlemen, did you read the UNICEF report? Have you read anything about the UNICEF report on child poverty? Have you read it or is it completely negligible for you that a large part of the EUR 1.8 billion package on the expenditure side will be for child poverty? Have you read the comparative European studies on how much we spend on housing? We're at the bottom! So a big package will be for that. Have you read about Brain Drain and the kids who want to go back? So a big package will be for that. You think we should talk seriously. Are you going to be serious about these issues, or are you just going to say that we don't care about child poverty, we don't care about Brain Drain, do we not care about housing? Third inaccuracy is that it was agreed that we would take measures without anything on the debt. But you never hear of any IMF European what it says? Hasn't any of you heard that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed? Haven't you heard that expression? Didn't you hear Diaselblum say after Malta that the debt debate is beginning? What was going to happen to Malta and now to the new IMF meetings will be discussed and everything will be agreed on a last Eurogroup? I do not know whether it will be May 22, or whether the President of Eurogroup will also have an emergency. I don't know that. But why are you in a hurry to say another inaccuracy that we have decided on the debt? How do you know we've decided? Where does it come from? Once again, instead of coming here and using the opportunity to discuss what we need to do about the debt, what we need to discuss the debt, what these countermeasures are, what we have got at least zero budgetary results and what you have done is to help the Greek economy get worse and say that we have delayed the negotiation, when almost all Europeans - even the European People's Party goes out to the European Parliament - say that the argument of Germany and the IMF should not delay this assessment. It's a pity you think you're not populists, and I think that only in your mind are you not populists. I keep seeing a way of talking, a way of dealing that reminds of the worst times of your tradition. And I'll tell you that the worst times are pretty bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u140	Thank you. It will also give some clarification to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to close this cycle. The President of the Independent Greeks then speaks Mr Kammenos and then MP Mr Kabvadia. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, the whole Chamber listened carefully to the Minister of Finance speaking with an orgasm, I must say, which does not usually describe it. I imagine it's explained by the enormous pressure he's taking. And this pressure obviously does not come from the opposition alone, Mr President. I imagine, from what we hear, you have some internal problems, beyond the problems of negotiation. In any case, we have heard you be very nervous to address us, and we are told that you are not the ones who are going to exaggerate. I imagine, Minister, you have not been in the Chamber in all previous years, when the word 'false', emanating from the party to which you belong and of which you are Minister, was the least we could hear. I imagine every time the opposition then called us traitors and germans, you were up and asked to withdraw. I imagine that for all the insults that your party has had for so many years, you have apologized to us and we have not heard of them. And now you come here to tell us that it bothers you to tell you liars. You are liars, Minister, and liars are the least we can tell you. You are great liars, unacceptable liars, undoubted liars. You're a liar! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now let's go to the other one. On the subject of work, Mr Mitsotakis referred to the figures published until February. If you have any new data to provide. If from there on for the negotiation as a whole, you would like to give us a serious briefing - because I remember last time, Minister, you did not give us any information, you told us what you cannot tell us, because the negotiation is taking place - so if now you really want to tell us where you have ended up, you can very well stand up and tell us. But we ask you directly and answer us. With the tax-free what happened? What about the tax-free? Will it be reduced or not reduced? With the pensions, what happened? Will it be reduced or not reduced? Your statement that if an additional euro is taken you will resign, is it true or is it not? Are you going to resign today or are you going to resign, so we can know where we are? Tell us what you said then, you're the honest man. What did you say? In any case, Mr President, I have to say something else. The Minister, I imagine, wanted as a reward for the excellent work he provides by negotiating to have - if I remember correctly, Minister - a cocktail meeting with Scarlet Johanson. That's what you said, isn't it? Well, where you're going and the late Georgia Kingdom girl is really falling on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u142	Quiet, please. Mr Dendia, after this extremely anti-feminist comment, I will give the floor to the President of the Independent Greeks, Mr Kammenos. We also respect the memory of Georgia Vasileiou and Mrs Johanson and everyone. For God's sake! Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the historian of the future opens up to reading the Minutes of today's sitting on the setting up of a Committee of Inquiry into Health, he will see that the Chief of Officerial Reconciliation has not said it for twenty-one minute and forty-four seconds. Nor did the word 'examination' say. Also, in all its dentures, the Parliamentary spokesman spoke of Georgia Vassiliou - God tirelessly - and about Greek comedy, to avoid mentioning the subject of today's debate. And that's why? Because they burn both. The first thing that burns down the Chief of Officer Response is the debate on health examination. And I'll explain exactly why. The second is that an agreement has been reached. I remember a few days ago, the newspaper 'pads' issued without paying for bookings, VAT, insurance contributions - I am talking about the Step and the News - although one youth director could well sell his own cock and take it off the newspaper, if he wants - against other newspapers that are normally paying for bookings, had headlines that the agreement will not close, that the agreement has sunk, that this government will be drawn to elections until Easter, because there will be no agreement, that the institutions, the European Union, the IMF, have thrown us all out. Finally, the deal is closed. Finally, the word 'positive measures' was heard for the first time after seven years and this agreement does not include any negative measures to the Greek people. For the first time, we are talking about reducing the ENPIA. For the first time, we are talking about benefits to those who are suffering. For the first time, the government has been introducing measures such as red loans and the renegotiation of business loans by means of an extrajudicial compromise, which will give rise to three hundred thousand businesses and will create six hundred thousand jobs. That is why we must apologise for the Civic Opposition and not for all the things that are heard here with references to the old Greek comedy. Because the Greek people live a drama. And there is a drama, because some have once decided to support George Papandreou when he abolished supplementary pensions as a whole. When Venizelos agreed with Samaras to curb the insurance funds with the PSI, to dismantle the hospitals, to dismantle the public property, the universities, to lead to the impoverishment of the Greek people, the confessors. Who agreed to that? Who supported them? The New Democracy-PASOK alliance of the New Democracy which chose instead of attacking George Papandreou and has led him to an examination committee since then and break with Greece's enslavement plan in the Memorandums, become the defence attorney. And today we see the New Democracy of Kostas Karamanlis following the line of Antonis Samaras: Defend Venizelos for the submarines, not dare to say the word "Papatonios" - they took the son Papantonis to the new members of the New Democracy - not to mention the era of Karamanlis and to support George Papandreou. Let's go to health and see what happened. Let's see exactly why this behavior is being followed. You know, one of the oldest parliamentarians, who had the luck of having a teacher here, was the father of today's Chief of Police, Constantine Mitsotakis, who, at a time when Google did not exist, said "before every debate, look back to the old Minutes. Read the speeches of the other representatives who were then in opposition or co-population." I have therefore raised these Minutes, and today they will break down the two arguments used by the Chief of Staff of the Vice-President for the Committee of Inquiry into Health. What did he say here? The first question was why we haven't been doing a committee of inquiry since 1996 and we've been doing it since 1997. And the excuse was because in 1996, for a month and a half, Mr Kurublis was a secretary. I would therefore like to refer to the letter from Mrs Dora Bakoyannis, Chief of State at the time of the DISY party, the Democratic Alliance, which took 1% then in the elections, collapsed. On 12-1-2011, under the emergency question protocol 18, he submits a question to the then Minister for Health and Social Solidarity, Mr. Andreas Lovedros. What is the subject of that question? He sent a letter as the party leader at the time. Then, of course, she did not enter the House again, because she was never voted as a party leader from the Greek people, but returned to the New Democracy and began to beg Mr Antonis Samaras, whom she exulted and who threw her father from the government, to take her back to him. In his communication and in the letter he sent to the parties' leaders he proposed an examination of health, saying that this is a ruthless, profitable game of a wider group of people with the medical expenses and, in particular, medical materials, which are purchased at prices not just twice as much but often multiples of real costs. When did Mrs Bakoyannis propose to set up the Committee of Inquiry? For the last 10 years, i.e. from 2001 onwards. Didn't Mrs. Bakoyannis know that Mr. Kurublis was then a secretary in 1996 to ask before? Oh, no. He didn't want it before. Because, it turns out, the Simitis gang is today that political group, which supports the New Democracy and collaborates and co-operates in order to form the common force and strike the government that has decided to hit the conflict and corruption. Let's go to the next post by "THE VIMA", of which I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, the publisher's son was a member of the New Democracy: "The war is getting old in the family of centre-rights with Mrs Dora Bakoyannis insisting on the need for an examination committee on health. The President of the Democratic Alliance, while disputing that he had targeted specific people, especially from the New Democracy area, by letter sent to the political leaders, asked for their consent to the establishment of a committee of inquiry, thereby strengthening the scenarios that he had the vice president of the New Democracy, Dimitris Avramopoulos, at the heart of the criticism. Many experienced officials of the New Democracy, I insist that Mr Psycharis was a member of the New Democracy, "they consider that, with this move, it is not only aimed at the Ministers for Government Health of Karamanlis, but above all Mr Avramopoulos and Mr Nikita Kaklamani, today's Vice-President of the Parliament and member of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, "but send a message to Rigillis". Note the message "THE MOMA" of the HIGH. ‘Substantially with its action, as New Democracy officials say in the background, it warns the leadership of the New Democracy that if it is engaged in the case of ‘SIEMENS’ by a blue agreement, there will be a frontal conflict.’ This is the quintany of political logic: let's go guys and find them so that they don't open your nose! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Don't get me into "SIEMENS", because if you get me into trouble at "SIEMENS" I'll get you two Caramanli government ministers, of which he participated. And the most nice thing is the following. I continue to read from "THE VIMA": "The nail came shortly after, when she did not want to talk about the substance of the responsibilities of the government of Karamanlis, but she said - Dora Bakoyannis, sister of today's Chief - with meaning: "There is no cabinet that discussed the health issue that I was present to be". Shortly after that, and the MPs of DISY tabled a timely question to the House on the same subject, asking the relevant Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, to explain: Who were the intermediates to whom he referred. Who was illegally enriched by the case of overpricing in the last decade of medicines and medical materials (embolisms, etc.)?). If the State intends to initiate procedures for returning the illegal wealth.’ I shall therefore present to Parliament the timely question by Mrs Dora Bakoyannis as Head then of the DESY Party against the New Democracy and the 'THE VIMA', which should be kept in our Minutes quite often to see exactly what the games that have been played are. Why is this all happening? This is because in the health sector, as in the field of armaments, there was a daily cover. I'm not messing with you, Mr. Venizelo, for the submarines, so you won't open any more stories of the past to me. We will not refer Mr Papantoniou to him or even refer him back, but the Chief of Police Vice-Population will be consistent, Mrs. Gennimatas will have measles, no one will be here by the leaders of the two parties, so that Mr. Papantoniou will not be misunderstood. Of course there are also the tweets of colleagues from the New Democracy and the Vice-President - who were present - who presented the positions taken by Mr Papantoniou against the establishment of the pre-review committee of the Parliament. These, ladies and gentlemen, show clearly that we have an obligation to move on to this examination and to open up everything and give the blame to whomever they belong. And the limitation of course does not exist. And the non-registration is called precisely in the same question that had been tabled, but also in the reply of the then Minister for Health on the issue of drugs. To open doctors' accounts and see which doctors got rich in massages from pharmaceutical companies. Who have deposited several million euros in Switzerland without ever telling Greece? What about the injections, the medications, the suspects? Who made the so-called golden lists? What about the orgy of so-called orthopaedic spare parts? And then we'll find out why there's this morning. Here, ladies and gentlemen, in the examination we have presented, you will find that the proposal of the Members of the two government parties, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks still has one difference. They refer to a case, the case of CEDEFOP, and indeed to advertising expenditure, to those issues relating to payment of journalists, newspapers and media in order to participate in this mafia of opposition, but also to those of the companies, media shops, which have been ombudsmen. And I would remind you that they were also the ones who handled the 30% reimbursements of advertising expenditure that the customer should be given. But I have a third question. And this question is about the famous Henry Dynan. Following the arrest of the President of the Greek Red Cross, Andreas Martin and his wife for fraud on a continuous basis, they began to open mouths. Do you know when the first question was filed? The first question was tabled before 2000. If I remember correctly, in 1996-1997, the then director of the 'FODER TYPES', Mr Daskas, today's journalist, began a major investigation into the subject of Henry Dunan, a legacy of the 'Red Cross', which was curiously sold to individuals. Do you know what Mr. Yannis Duska's luck was? He was driven out of all the means he was invited to work on. And yet he kept going and testifying to the courts. Since that time I have asked questions to the House. But the mighty one, at that time, was Martin, who was never touched by anyone. Let's see what happened with Henry Dunan's case, to see what the Health and Welfare Inspectors of the Health and Welfare Inspectors are writing inside for companies in which they participated and were associates of politicians. I am referring specifically to: 'AIA RELATE' receives in 2009 20% of the total amount collected by citizens in fundraisers in favour of the Red Cross, that is, one in five. Five euros gave the kid to school for the Red Cross, and one euro was taken by the advertising company. By devilish coincidence, it belongs to a family policy. The Committee of Inquiry will open it. According to the same conclusion for the advertising of the Red Cross fundraiser that year, which exceeds EUR 235,000 at cost, no competitive process has been observed, as should. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And of course, we move on to the famous websites, which were set up by counsellors of Ministers without even having the press status, some of them were confiscated, others are in justice and others continue to be the revolvers of interlocutory. We have 80,000 euros, 200,000 euros, 250,000 euros from the CCI to advertise what? Advertise CEDEFOP to funds from the European Union for cancer as a contagious disease. And I ask the Greek people from Stepa: who does not want to do health research, and why do 90% of the time deal with what happens with the negotiations, which we have the opportunity to discuss for several days and hours, whenever any party wants to convene a debate? Precisely because of this black health money that is equal, as Mrs Ryku said, leaving, armaments scandal, results in the black money built by the state of interlocutory. So this government, a government of two parties that we met with different political characters and origins, is here precisely because neither SYRIZA nor the Independent Greeks have anything to do with this dirty past. I call on those who do not want our fellow Members to have a relationship with this past of interactive, corruption and dirt to vote for the Committee of Inquiry, to enter the Chamber and tell the truth to the Greek people, to seize the stolen sums, to return them to those who stole the money of the Greek people and those politicians who touched the finger on honey, finally to pay the penalty they deserve to pay from the Greek penal code. We will not back off, ladies and gentlemen, and the grace of the elections will not be for you. The Committee of Inquiry will end, the pre-response committee will end, the responsibilities will be attributed, Greece has come off the road of the memorials and once we reach a point, now, the Greek people have begun prosperity, then we can fight again politically. Until then, do not hope that this government will fall.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u144	Thank you Mr. Pano Kammenos, Chief of Independent Greeks. We're on our way to the list of SYRIZA MP, Mr. Annetta Cavadia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. I really am impressed by the courage of some in this Chamber. I'm impressed, but, of course, I'm not surprised. After all, the atrocity is characteristic of all those who are occupied by a property perception of the fates of the country, all those who are without shame today shaking the finger, having wasted thick money, have raised corruption and stranded into dominant ideology and have led sick women to public perception without feeling the need to ask for even an apology. Obviously I understand the discomfort, because it is not a bit of a government that finally decides to put the finger on the type of sunshine and to touch a place like that of health, for which society has been for years. The waste of public money, the immunity of expenditure and the opaque relationship between pharmaceutical companies, private doctors, public officials, health officials and politicians constituted a timeless catastrophe of corruption and interlocutory, for which everyone knew, but no one spoke and, above all, no one touched. And this gruesome little kite, at the expense of not only public money but also of the health of the citizens, was not only unfolding in the years of the 'partisan' and the fat cows, it continued in the time of the crisis. By moderate calculations, the 'black money' consumed in previous years in the health sector is - pay attention to the sum - in the glossy sum of EUR 85 billion, i.e. one quarter of the country's public debt. And all those who have been shareholders and shareholders - because this "part" has organizers with a name, New Democracy and PASOK - are now hypocritically breaking their garments, trying to put sins on the SYRIZA, to say, "You are not bored, bruising, all of you are the same." hoping that shouting the thief will be afraid of the housekeeper. But we are saying so clearly: we are not all the same. The scandals will be documented and made known, because the evidence is there and the committee will identify them. The citizens will learn and justice will be called upon to do its duty. The screams are not going to hide the truth. It is clear that in the committee, ladies and gentlemen, we will talk about a great deal. But here, for example, I will only refer to the management and operation of the CEDEFOP, the body which seems to have seen the light of publicity, has been the offshore of many governments for years, an offshore located not somewhere in the distant islands of Cayman, but here above, in nearby Maroussi, on Agragon Street. And, unfortunately, for many, the Agravian Street seems to have to tell us and reveal us a lot. Indicatively - I repeat - I will mention the findings of the audit of the Health and Welfare Inspectors' Corps, reference to the criminal court of CEDEFOP with severe charges for felony acts, the conclusion of the CEDEFOP on virtual invoices for the period 2003-2009. And that's not all. There are private contracts for sponsorships - be careful, not advertising, but sponsorships - on specific television channels. There is, for example, a sponsorship - I repeat, not advertising - of a million in a pan-Hellenic channel. It's the details in the near future. There are television ads of the CEDEFOP, made by specific companies, without a statement of expenditure, but by delegation, and then submitted or published at a high price in specific and selected media. In such ways and with others, who will of course be revealed in the course of the examination, what was it ensured? This guilty media silence was ensured briefly. In addition to silence, however, participation was ensured. It goes without saying that all those who fed, in such opaque and sometimes illegal ways, through CEDEFOP money, did not buy only time for infectious diseases, but also for their party, very often even for themselves, at the expense of their fellow candidates from the same party space. That's how some, ladies and gentlemen, TV stars became. So some parties tightened the so-called "fourth power", which instead of controlling the other three, such as its mission, was found to be intertwined and serve selfish purposes. But since generalization is the womb of fascism, I rush to clarify. Not all media people participated in these transaction games and obviously not all CEDEFOP people involved in such games. We honour the Centre's scientific staff, which offers maximum public health, and I am prepared to accept that even at times the Centre's political leaders are not necessarily guilty or at least as guilty of what monsters and signs appear from the first elements to have been committed. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll hang up with this. We are not asking for the committee of inquiry to be set up, having prejudiced the guilt of some. After all, witch hunting is a privileged field of other political spaces and obviously does not belong to the history of our own Left. But under no circumstances do we intend to play the neutral role of any Pontius Pilate. We are here, all that is in place will be discussed, detected through the course of the committee of inquiry. I repeat something that has already been heard. We're not all the same. We have no organic relationship with this 'part', which has had a few organizers and many participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Annetta Cavadia. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy birthday to everyone! Some, of course, won't have a holiday, but it doesn't matter. The statement by the government majority on the proposal for a committee of inquiry to investigate the scandals in health only involves a courageous challenge. And that, not because we question your parliamentary right, it is simply an attempt to deceive once again and to disorientate the Greek people. At the time your Government is ready to sign a fourth Memorandum, when you agreed to shrink pensions and dutyfree to reduce so much that at the end of the day a wage or pension is lost, you are trying to turn public opinion lights and direct them to your favorite field, that of the arena. Because now it has been revealed that the proud 'first time left' has agreed to anti-grassroots measures, and indeed without funding and what I hear from there and beyond about who is lying, and so on, for us as a Centro Association, is what they say 'on the one hand comes in and out of the other'. You have deceived the Greek people and you continue to deceive them. It's something that's been happening for the first time in history, signing measures without funding. And what you're suggesting as countermeasures, to vent social anger, is unfortunately piles and coups to children in schools. So you are currently setting up a new setting, as you have done with party loans, as you have done with the media, as with armaments, with the involvement of Mr Papantoniou, so that with controlled and selective leaks for scandals, whether existing or inexistent, you can falsify society once again. Of course, there is no doubt about the fact that many and great scandals have been done in the field of health over the last forty years. For decades, with governments of either PASOK or New Democracy, various circuits from suppliers, pharmaceutical companies, public officials, politicians, doctors and nursing staff, pharmacists and other involved squandered the public resource available and fed to the detriment of the Greek people and the social system. One of the biggest outbreaks of corruption had been created and a very well-deserved fanatic, which obviously works to this day. But, good or bad for some people, it's time for everything to come to light, as we say. The period of PASOK rule in the 1990s was very well included. Because if we could have a text, even a summary of the events of the then government, this book would be the epitome of scandals and corruption. There was no public life sector that did not manage to put their hands in even his wages at the time of Prime Minister. What happened at that time opened the eyes and appetite to the next, the New Democracy, for the period 2004-2009 and perhaps later, inspired by the previous ones continued with the same or worse, with an improved method. For example, everyone remembers the supply of a few hundred thousand uncompromising vaccines for avian influenza, also the opaque management of hospital supplies, the launch of drug expenditure on heights and much more. We in the Central Association do not know why the period before 1997 has not entered the investigation period, perhaps even since 1993 or even since 1990, in order to really reflect the account of all of you, what you say 'all in light'. Because it's not all in light when it stops in 2014. After all, even if these periods are excluded, how will the committee function? Will you forbid the witnesses to answer when they're inquiring about it? Will the Minutes be altered? So will the letters be censored when people come to the committee and report back to 1997? Or for after 2014, what are you going to do? You'll get a marker and erase them, why isn't this period included? In any case, because, on the majority side of the House, too many jokes have been heard so far about the supposed moral advantage of the Left, and there is also a reasonable need for some evidence or evidence of scandals made by SYRIZA, of the decision, of course, by the Committee of Inquiry, I would be happy to list some of these scandals as well: The official policy of the state of SYRIZA, the famous "I don't pay" to what it has to do with the hospitals. The official figures for January show that EEA debts to hospitals amount to EUR 1.33 billion. At the same time, hospital obligations to suppliers have reached 522 million euros. What can we call the above? Clearly, first-degree scandal. Secondly, the fact that the destruction of health for days SYRIZA - ANEL is not limited to public health, but has also flooded private health. It is clear that the Government strangles each private health unit through the super-armopulation of payments or the eternal delay in payments or unjustified cuts on the part of the EEAS. According to a recent study, for every 100 euros invoicing the cuts reach 79 euros, i.e. they lead private health to extinction for the sake of their ideological struggles. How can we characterise the permanent indifference of the present Government to resolve the problems of private health units and to the manifest undermining of their operation? But, of course, first-degree scandal. Thirdly, the maintenance and perpetuation of outdated technology equipment, such as health support machines and dialysis machines, with the result - among others - that their maintenance costs are excessively increased. How can we characterise the conscious choice of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL supposedly repair removable medical equipment instead of providing a new one, so that there is no question of a proper diagnosis? But, of course, first-degree scandal. Fourthly, from the day before yesterday and entirely symptoms it has been put up for consultation with the open government draft law by which a new and gigantic body, the so-called National Central Health Procurement Authority, is set up. In fact, you are making sure that this body is built with four directorates and twelve departments, with the ability to place an unlimited number of officials, with the possibility of infinite committees and others luckyly, we could call them a new party service, of course. All this, of course, on the backs of the Greek taxpayer. What do you call this, ladies and gentlemen? But, of course, first-degree scandal. The case of recruitment via CEDEFOP. How do you characterize the fact that a government official takes all the files and requests to participate in a contest for doctors and nurses and replaces the panel of the special committee of successful ones with another of his choice? Of course, first-degree scandal. So for all these scandals, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and twice as much as the previous speakers have done to you, the ministers and your members in the committee will be invited to give the floor, to apologise and, of course, to be judged. Ladies and gentlemen, every citizen of the country, who has had the misfortune to be hospitalized, is aware of it firsthand and feels it upon him that this government alone is causing and systematically neglected to deal with the health of the people and to solve problems. If you were a product, for example a pack of cigarettes, the health note would say "The government seriously harms health". If the government really wants to exalt health and stop scandals, a first good step would be to ask, at the moment we are talking about, the resignations of all its officials involved in the health sector. The same thing, of course - so as not to think that we are talking about the government - should have done all these years both PASOK and New Democracy and all those who had responsibilities at that time. That's why they're coming to committee to examine, but don't take your tail out. Distribute responsibilities accordingly and end with lies and fairy tales at the moment of the government and clarify our position. We declare that in the event that despite our appeals the government majority does not show braveness, does not change its position and does not include in its proposal and the period of government, that is, in 2015-2017, we will ignore it and vote against it. I personally consider the New Democracy's proposal more comprehensive with regard to the periods. Stop it, you too! Download a proposal together, all together and put the showtime aside! Enough show we live every day from Survivor, we don't miss any more trash tv. Find a joint proposal and we will vote for it. Or in the best, ladies and gentlemen, you will find the courage to shape the proposal that you have taken down at the moment and then you will find us allies. Expand the search to this day, not your tail out! Otherwise, I'm very afraid we'll "black you" both. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr Marios Georgiadis, Parliamentary Representative from Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u149	The Centro Association!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u150	I'm sorry, Mr. Georgiadis, from the Centro Association. The other Georgiadis has rushed to correct the error. We proceed with Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. At the outset, I will make it clear that as Golden Dawn we will vote in favour of both the proposals for setting up a committee of inquiry into the health field, expressly and reluctantly, the proposal for co-examined health scandals, but also the New Republic's proposal to investigate the management and expenditure from 1996 to the current time period, with a small formal reservation. I'm just explaining why. It is obvious and - I would say - the difference between the two proposals. In the first place, there is explicit reference to scandals, and the New Democracy proposal uses the phrase'management and expenditure', which betrays hesitation, political insecurity and perhaps guilt. The proposal for convergence is rather substantiated and sufficiently substantiated in terms of the main research priorities of the committee being set up. However, in its introduction there is a major one - I would say - a reasonable mistake, Minister. It says that favourable conditions have been created because of the crisis, and it has also been the case in the current period of time exactly the opposite, that is, the corruption of political power in the field of health - and not only - has led to the economic crisis, the protracted, extremist economic recession. The cost of this multi-level corruption in the field of health was the loss of 85 billion euros for the Greek people, the Greek state, the Greek nation. According to the former Public Administration Inspector General, Mr Leandro Rakinzis, the cost of corruption annually amounts to 33 billion euros, with significant participation of health-related corruption, i.e. if there were no such phenomena of widespread corruption for a decade or if corruption has been effectively struck for a decade, this will lead to the elimination of Greece's public debt. In support of this claim, I will tell you that Greece in the year 2016 held everything but an honorable 69th place on the international list of incorruptible countries. On that list, as we know, Denmark's coming. The year 2015 was in the 58th place. This means that within a year of governance by SYRIZA and ANEL Greece plunged eleven positions, i.e. 69th place in the year 2016. Unfortunately, the post-government governments have created a corrupt state and the coup d'état continues to maintain this situation. The New Democracy describes SYRIZA - ANEL as a political diversion. But the exact opposite is true. The proposal of the New Democracy is manifestly a diversion motion after following the proposal of the coup d'état in time. In any case, the examination will take place in a theatrical battle, I predict without result in the performance of responsibilities to political persons, at least criminal responsibilities. The Chief of Golden Dawn Nikolaos Michaloliakos has often referred to the notorious "party of the parties", the amoralist, falsified "constitutional bow". I am sure that this committee will also develop a state of inner-party cohort of this 'partnership of the parties', which will be characterised by pragmatic inconsistencies with a convenient introvert, because basically SYRIZA, the ANEL, the New Democracy and the other democratic forces are attempting to divert against the Greek people suffering from the modern foreign powers, their institutions and their domestic partners. I am sure that in this committee of inquiry, on the one hand, the delusional immortalism of the Left of SYRIZA with the mutant gene of authoritarianism and leftless patriotism of the Independent Greeks and, on the other, the pseudo-ethnicism, the kivic ethnicism of the New Democracy will be considered. Golden Dawn is the only guaranteeing political force that has been documented and haunted will give rise to responsibilities if they - we believe they are appropriate - for the sinful CEDEFOP, the grievous 'Chrikos Dunan' but also the scandal of overcompensation of medicines, the mismanagement of public hospitals, in order to demonstrate responsibility for political persons who have been deprived of by the Greek people, by the Greek state, essentially vital space.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u152	Please complete, Mr. Aivatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u153	Finally, Mr President, with your permission, because of the day I wish good resurrection to our Christian people, to our Christian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Ioannis Aivatidis. We proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, George Germenis. Mr. Germenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, one or two Members of Parliament and then Members of Parliament will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u156	It is about as many speakers as parliamentarians. So he goes one by one, so he gets here, or all the parliament will fall to talk at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u157	Have the parliamentary representatives so far asked?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u158	They've asked. It's Mr. Maddash, Mr. Dendias. Some people will talk half a year. It's Mr. Germenis who will speak now, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Mr. Dimitris Kammenos. Mr. Germenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u159	It is not long since the Committee of Inquiry into the lending of parties and the media from the banks, which, at the end of the day, the conclusion reached by this committee was that big-time workers, parties and banks had, as proved, financial security. In the eyes of the Greek people, there was no vindication of the findings that came out of the confirmation - the whole world was confirmed for what it said in the cafes - that you are all a little paradigm that you are intercepting for the scandals that you have committed. Only ten days ago in this Chamber we voted to set up another preliminary examination for the special parliamentary committee, which involved the possibility of committing offences in the context of contracts of armaments of the Ministry of National Defence on Giannos Papantoniou. And we learn from our representative in the specific committee of inquiry, Giannis Lagos, that during this committee the parties - not the Golden Dawn of course - have voted for no television coverage, not even the committee's minutes. What is the purpose of a committee of inquiry in the end, if it is in secret? What are you afraid of? What is the Greek Parliament afraid of? These are unheard of things. It's not happening anywhere. You, too, are interested in the so-called democratic processes. And what do we say? What does Golden Dawn say? All in light, so that the Greek people have full information. So we are here today to vote again on a new committee of inquiry, now on the investigation of health scandals 1997-2014. I ask you: will the Greek people have access to this committee? Or the vote here today, like the committee itself, is simply aimed at disorientating public opinion from the new measures, which you intend to bring from the fourth memorandum, which you are cooking for it, but do you still not know how to forge both with your officials and with the Greek people, since you are now in the public gallery? So with regard to the issue we are discussing today, I would like to remind you that Article 21(3) of the Constitution states: 'The State is looking after the health of its citizens and takes specific measures to protect the youth, old age, disability and the care of the most deprived'. But what is happening in the health sector in Greece of 2017? Hospitals for complete dissolution, lack of doctors and nurses, insufficiency in medical equipment, resulting in - and is not secret, people say it openly - the doctors refuse to operate, because they are afraid not to take any patient on their back and then hunt them after the relatives. Also, hospitals with insufficient number of beds. We've reached the point where they ask the patient to bring alcohol and sheets from home. The infections reap. Haven't you met that? From us here - I have heard it from other Members - do you hear it for the first time? So what's going on? Why don't you take some measures to fix this situation? Two years you've been government! We here as Golden Dawn and our MPs have tabled hundreds of questions about health problems, but you so-called democrats don't even bother to answer these burning issues, with the prediction that we are subject to a case for which there are and have been heard from this Chamber, from this Stepma, inexcusable proof of construction. Why don’t we be fooled in this Chamber there are others who have no problem answering them. Let me remind you, Minister, that just last week he came to the House for Samaras, for the former Prime Minister of the country, about the construction that was set up with the well-known "Panathinaikas", Babi, to enter three Greek Parliamentarians. Full catalyst of the Constitution, like prison for some people is to go on vacation. What are you going to do? Will you answer from now on to the Members of the New Democracy who, for the then Prime Minister of the country until a week ago, came here now? Isn't he a court? What excuse are you going to find out there? I do, of course, believe that you do not answer our questions, which the Members of the Golden Dawn do not actually just do, since they have some behind them - let us not call them "votemen" - people who send us letters, call us phones and say, "Hey, you guys, put down this question." We do not ask for a political identity when we ask a question about a poor man who has a problem in his area. But you put them all in one place, take them down and say, "You are guilty, you are members of a criminal organization." And your ideology - above all your ideology - which has been well or badly used for so many years, personally for me, if you want - even if you are politically rival - has been badly swept. Mr. Georgiadis is here. He's been burned 30 times. The Yannis of the ropes destroyed them. We don't like these things. But we're going to talk to you, too, but you don't want to talk to me. Don't move your head. That's the reality! Because every poor man who can't go get an antitank serum from every center sends him...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u160	I do not allow you to address me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u161	I didn't talk to you. Did you hear your name?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u162	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u163	Did you hear your name? Look at your book now and don't talk! Don't talk anymore! Let us now come to the issue. Since 1985...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u164	You're going to tell us whether or not we're talking in this House!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u165	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u166	Look at your little book.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u167	Please, Mr. Germenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u168	Can I be interrupted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u169	Of course not. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u170	Since 1985 and the establishment of the ESS on PASOK you have been talking about the national....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u171	I'm sorry, he's breaking the Rules of Procedure. He has to go back to class, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u172	In your little book! It was created since 1985 by the ESH and the PASOK Government, the so-called National Health System, the system that would speak of a modern society of law. Instead, what did we have? We also had no record of human resources in the ESS, cases of fraud, abuse of medical devices, unused medical equipment, payments to Ghost workers, an unknown number of beds in hospitals and, finally, the guidance of patients in private hospitals. So, as we can see, scandals existed before 1996. Now we go to the great 'NOVARTIS scandal', which if the American authorities hadn't made it out, we wouldn't get any news, while many other elements have not come to light, we have not been sent by the Americans and have not yet reached the hands of justice for exactly what happened. And in this case, what am I supposed to refer to first? In the suspected resignation of Prosecutor Helen Ryku, known by the address "ella Helen", which in this case says he was threatened? Is there really going to be a lifting of her phone secret to verify the complaints? We had, a month ago, a member of the "NOVARTIS" attempted to kill ourselves. What's the matter, gentlemen, with this company? Which government, which ministers, what members of the political system are involved? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. And since I have Adoni Georgiadis - Minister at that time - who will speak immediately afterwards, I would like to make the following comment to him: we are talking about expenditure on high-cost medicines exceeding EUR 500 million per year. A ministerial decision on 21-1-2014 established the pricing of high-cost medicinal products in order to produce the retail price that would be sold to the pharmacy. And it was done as follows: The wholesale price was deducted by 13% as a discount and so the so-called hospital price, which adds 2% to the price. And that's how the special wholesale price was calculated. Let's go now. By decision of the same Minister on 3-6-2014, the method of calculation changes and is deducted from the calculation of the discount of 13%. What's going on here? What's going on? Considering this price in high-cost medicines, we realise that there is a burden on the Greek citizen's pocket, which is suffering from serious diseases. Why these changes, Mr. Minister at that time? The answer is specific. In the highest pricing way, the pharmaceutical industries had 13% more profit, while at the same time Greek insured persons were forced to pay a higher price for buying medicines. And here we ask: See which particular company at the time was winning all the auctions, all the competitions and draw your conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u173	Thank you. And now we are moving on to the speakers. Mr Spyridon Lappas, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor. Then we'll see who's going to talk, because the Minister can come in the meantime. Mr. Lappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we probably learned a piece of information, a handsome that the Greek people must have heard. The Greek state must have been founded in January 2015! He didn't exist before! Therefore, complexity, corruption, depreciation, bankruptcy began to happen after January 2015. This is the information from the rapporteur of the New Democracy. That's the one. Secondly, I heard Mrs Asimakopoulou, who said that the cause of each proposal for a committee of inquiry is that in the mind of the government and its officials it is an attempt to disorientate public opinion and workers. Mr Mavrosh from Potami - and I am sorry to say it - said that 'the government is also making a diversion to offset responsibility'. We'll see if that's true. Mr. Loverdos comes in and makes a reference to yesterday. He said that "ten days ago we were discussing the pre-examination committee on armaments and badly came to Parliament, because it will be a long delay and badly decided to be "closed" rather than "open". Mr. Loverdos isn't here. He's a legal, aggregated, a university professor. I'll tell him two things. I'm a lawyer, too. Is it possible to speak of a committee, which is doing pre-interrogation, which is open? Code of Criminal Procedure: "The preliminary investigation is secret". It's over and out. There's no need for any further argument. Secondly, what is the delay he's talking about? Is it the government's choice to bring the case-file to the House? Didn't he come by the D.A.'s order? Those who are legal, I think they understand. What should he do? Another would be for the House to decide something different. He was right to come to the House and was obliged by the Minister of Justice. That's another decision. We will see what the committee will do. I believe that the case-file for equipment - and Mr Voridis knows so - if he does one - two meetings for clarifications on specific matters will allow the competent prosecutor. It's over and out. Now we are going to the point: who bankrupt Greece. In 2015, when SYRIZA took over the government, Mr. Gabriel, Vice-Cancellor of Germany said: "The Greek elite was plundering Greece for years and we were unfortunately just looking." That's the one. I will then give it to the Minutes. Secondly, in April 2015, too, the Minister of Corruption, Mr. Nicololudis, said that in armaments a 2% -3% misa dominate, said that in the health field the misagent was in the versatile, the unbelievable 24%. It's registered in the Minutes. You're talking about disorientation and distraction. I will not speak to you in our own language, but I will tell you words of your own people. Hanging. I have an introduction to the book "The Corruption" of the Magatopoulou Foundation, where he says terrible and terrible things and even in 2013. Cremastino, a former Minister of Health, an honest university professor, speaks of corruption in health. What's he saying? Things dreadful and terrible. After saying that from 2 billion in 2000 we went to 4 billion in 2004 and 17.5 billion in 2009, he said: “And then I hurt. Seventeen billion over the last seven years." And he asks, "Why don't they find them?" That is the main question for health and justice. In fact, Kremastinos finishes his introduction - I have it here, I will give it to you - saying that 'for us corruption in the field of health is the number one danger to the country's survival'. Rakitzis at the first Panhellenic Congress - Public Health Forum said about the same. You'll see. We reach Mr. Surla, a man of yours, who, as the Secretary General of Transparency, especially for Henry Dunan, said: "I never imagined myself, who, by law, became Henry Dunan, would have that end. I believe that there are responsibilities for acts and omissions of those who had the management of the Foundation, but also of the political leaders, who seem to have decided without consideration for state grants." It concludes: 'There are responsibilities and must be sought and penalised'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance, please. And you tell us that this committee is being distracted and disoriented. Keep it for yourself. What happened with Henry Dynan will come and tell us soon Mr. Georgiadis. As you know, Mr. Martinis is being held for two felonies. One is for passive bribery and money laundering of EUR 3.2 million, which was found on the account received by the ‘HOSPITAL INTERNATIONAL’, the German company. The second is also malicious infidelity - second time in custody - because he made a 60% discount - 100% discount on fifty-one VIPs faces of political life, with a hospital damage of 1,75 million euros. In any case, Martinis gave two statements, one in November 2016 and one recently, in March 2017. He's belligerent and said signs and monsters! I can't tell you everything. I've written it all down. I've read them from the litigation. Here's the forensics, we'll all see to evaluate it. It says signs and monsters!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u175	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u176	Yes, Mr. President. Firstly, the public was not edited into the auction that was carried out for due taxes of EUR 4.5 million, which were never announced and were never collected. Who took a check of 115 million to hit the auction? One main company, the ‘HMITHA’, which was before ‘NEW EVOLUTION Property Development Anonymous Company’, development and tourism. It became the company as the ‘New EVOLUTION’ four days before the auction in the same notary as the same notary that was set up and the same notary that was auctioned and comes with a check of 115 million and is hitting without any other interested party. What's the matter with "HITHIA"? I'll tell you, Mr. Voridis and Mr. Georgiadis. EMITHES in 2005 has a capital of EUR 60,000. When he came by the check, he had zero chapter. Where'd he get the 115 million? Who were the real funders? Capital did not have, employees did not have, registered office, employees did not have, turnover did not have! So you come and tell us where the 115 million were found and Henry Dunan sold. So, Mr President, I am ending with this, our examination has three things to do: firstly, if the Minister for Health then had the right to intervene and ask for the resignation of the Board. For, Mr Georgiadis, I must tell you that from the founding Regulation of Henry Dunan - which we lawyers even read in his footnotes - he has no right to intervene at administrative level and ask for the resignation of the board of directors. There is only one reason for the way in which nursery services are provided and nothing else. And yet you did, and you asked for the resignation. And it was the beginning to unfold the bucket on Henry Dunan's theme. Secondly, Mr President, the confiscation by Piraeus Bank was made only in the building and in its annex. Mr Vorides has gone through an amendment four days before the auction, which says 'also together with the building that his licence and badge are going'. Let's see this if it's right or legitimate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u177	What do you mean, legal? After the vote, the House voted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u178	What does that matter, Mr. Voridis? We'll see. What this House is voting on is not legal. And one last: The price of 115 million, as Martins says in his statement in March, which is a river, was not just a small one, but was a pointless one. As long as we keep in mind, Martinis says that only one Piraeus Bank loan was over 50 million and had ten such loans and so many other assets. So, is his fortune estimated at 115 million? We'll investigate that, too. Finally, he asks Eleftherianos, the Prosecutor of Corruption, who sent the case-file, which we, of course, also ask in committee, if the elements of the auction include assets, materials and intangible assets, which were donated by the Greek Red Cross, because they were given the basic condition that Henry Dunan remain a public institution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u179	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u180	So we have a lot to investigate. So at the time the Greek society was violently going down, some people had a party here in Greece. I submit the relevant documents in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But the parties sometimes end. Do you know why? The music stops playing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Spyridon Lappa. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, everything that has been heard over the past few days and today about the agreement with the quartet is literally causing the intelligence of the Greek people, a people who have been on their knees for eight years - from the crisis - to the measures, your memorandums, and now is faced with an unbearable package, with the reduction of duty-free, with the reduction of pensions, with the extension of privatizations, which are essentially about a new programme, regardless of whether it will be called a memorandum again or something else. The story of the countermeasures does not convince anyone, neither the Greek people nor the SYRIZA executives, who, for their own reasons, say that the new huge losses are not compensated. Even if we accept that measures and countermeasures have a zero budgetary effect - which is not, of course, the case - this is mainly about supporting large capital, whether by reducing the tax rates of business groups or by subsidising their wage costs, that is to say, with State money granted to some of these groups to hire cheap, consumable workers who will be able to lay off after six months. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] As far as the popular layers, the so-called countermeasures, at most, are concerned, too, to lead to a new bleeding of wage earners, self-employed, in order to give some crumbs to extreme poverty, which will be increased because of precisely this policy. For the reduction in tax, the reduction in pensions will affect both low-paid and low-paid people. At the same time, while anti-grassroots measures are data, which will only apply to the extent that budgetary results are achieved above the 3.5% target. And what you say will be legislated together is the well-known communication trick, the well-known beetles to hide this reality, that the condition of their application - if applied - is the continuation, escalation of the attack. Do you want to talk about work, which appears to be a success here? The point is that you are not talking about reintroducing the minimum wage, which you even had a flag. You are not talking about the abolition of unacceptable discrimination against young workers. You are not talking about the abolition of all this legislative framework, which has affected the possibility of workers claiming sectoral collective agreements, and we have reached the generalization of operational, individual contracts. You are not saying a word, for example, about reintroducing the mandatoryity of contracts that will bind the employer to implement them. The most outrageous thing, however, is that you are actually making all this effort to exile the European Union - which this government has done and is doing - mainly on the basis of labour. And what we haven't heard these days! The middle-age employment that the government has been implementing and strengthening for over two and a half years is - it says - requirements of some circles that want to undermine the acquis of the European Union. The problem, that is, there are some extremes, only suddenly emerged out of nowhere and they want to contaminate the unarmed and undefiled European Union. Mercy, gentlemen! It is precisely the European Union that has been phasing out every right to work for over thirty years, with particular intensity, of course, in recent years of the crisis, of the memoranda. What has been preserved in conquests has been safeguarded by the conflict with these European Union guidelines. Do these measures not apply in all its Member States? The same measures on labour last year did not the French government of your southern ally, Mr. Olad, adopt the same measures as the El Comori Act last year? It's a law that got out on the road for many weeks, hundreds of thousands of workers in France. You have become more euro-language than the most Euro-languages. Of course, someone will say, here you have reached the point of offering cover to the attack by the United States of America on Syria. Will you stick to the European Union? Following NATO's invitation to the Aegean Sea, following the support of all aggressive naval decisions, following the United States' agreements to expand their military bases in Greece, such as in Souda, you have reached your point by signing the Joint Communication of the South Council of countries to give full coverage and even to describe the United States of America's attack on Syria, which further fires 'oil' in competition with dangerous and unpredictable consequences for the peoples of the region. Yesterday, your Minister and your partner to the government by ANELs were fascinating by Kosovo for this geostrategic policy, he says, upgraded Greece. Really, what defensive needs of the country serve the presence of a Greek army in Kosovo and elsewhere, which you condemned when you were in Anti-Policy? At the same time, you are contemplating that you will extend for a five-year period the agreement with the United States on the Souda base. You have proved once again that you have no obstacle, no suspension, to support dangerous plans for the benefit of not of course of peace and of our people, who must claim here and now the release of Greece from any wars, aggressive actions, the closure of naval bases and of Souda in particular, the return of Greeks who are present on missions outside the border of the capital, which is being carried out in the wider region. That's why we say SYRIZA offers valuable, priceless services to the system. Because with the misunderstanding and the "carrot", with the sign of the so-called progress, as much as this began to be dispersed, because the people got you hampered, you succeeded in passing hard anti-grass measures and, above all, to pass perceptions, ideas of deep reactionary in the world, in this people that followed you, eminently hostile concepts for our people. And here there is, of course, the difficult position of the New Democracy, because it must be opposed by a government that has proved to be more capable, that is to say, of passing policies for which the New Democracy thinks it has the knowshow. And not only that, but also to see the SYRIZA Government taking further credit from the Euro-Atlantic allies, from the Euro-Atlantic partners, from BSE to Greece for its performance in this anti-Holian project. And he is, of course, trying to overshadow himself by resorting even to graphics such as that of Mr Georgiadis today. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to health examination in the course of the investigation, and particularly its theme is offered for a convenient, we would say, a confrontation between the government and the opposition parties since all this is overshadowed, but also the causes of the disgraceful state of the public health system in relation to the increased, real people's needs. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government implements, at an accelerated rate, a policy - follow-up to all previous governments and regardless of individual differentiations. It is no coincidence that both the current SYRIZA-ANEL and the New Democracy and the PASOK have previously had and have as a propaganda wrapping of the anti-grass measures as supposedly the household, supposedly the rationalisation of expenditure, supposedly the blow of the waste. With this propaganda all the hard anti-grass measures are being promoted. And in a legitimate way, Mr Lappa, the huge theft becomes by removing even these minimal, inadequate people's rights to health. In a 'legal' way, patients pay more than before and the state and the insurance funds pay and provide less. They legally close public hospitals, psychiatric hospitals, clinics, labs, units of the PEDY. In a lawful way, permanent staff in the public health system are being reduced, the exploitation of workers in the health of doctors, nurses and others is legally increasing and through the unacceptable fixed-term work relationship and with even more reduced rights than assistants, with blockages, social work and saying, because they are not charged to the state budget, as they are paid for by health services. All of this, however, we, the working people's movement, believe it to be the right thing to do. That's all you're doing today's and yesterday's rulers illegality! Ladies and gentlemen, CEDEFOP is also being used by the current government to power the public health units with a passionate staff, with lower wages, even by subsidiary staff, with a temporary employment relationship, without permits, without health allowances, Christmas, Easter. A recent success of the Government is the legislation providing that the regions and municipalities, individually or jointly, their associations, OTA enterprises, may conclude contracts with health regions, hospitals, mental health establishments, primary care units located within their administrative limits in order to finance the study, implementation of projects and programmes for the development of public health structures and supplies other than medicines. It transfers the responsibility for financing development, operation, sanitary supplies and machinery from the State budget to the local administration of first and second grades. It extends and deepens earlier measures promoted by the government, such as the financing by municipalities and regions of the recruitment of subsidiary staff, the provision of allowances as incentives to cover serious shortages in doctors and others. It paves the way for the extra burden on our people at municipal fees and taxation, in order to implement these measures, on the grounds that it is in the interests of the health of the people and given the cut in state funding, but also in the poor economic situation of the municipalities and regions, again because of their State funding. Recently, the government legislated, by putting the seal not only on a degraded and inadequate public primary health care, as it is today, but also on its formal dissolution. The establishment of local health units is a worthwhile extension of the plan, launched by previous governments, to restructure primary health care with infrastructures and personnel that will not be burdened by the State and with benefits of the minimum minimum package for patients, which also cost very little to state and insurance funds. The majestic plans for primary health care, which you are stormingly propaganda all the time before, prove to be a huge bubble. What should anyone be admiring first? That for ten to twelve thousand people, do you at least predict a doctor or a pathologist or a general doctor or a pediatrician, a nurse or a visitor of health or an administrative officer? In other words, a doctor and a nurse with an administrator will work and provide promotion, prevention, diagnosis and treatment services. But on every shift there is this number, so the needs are dealt with? And when they get sick or take leave, what will these workers do? Who are you kidding? It is a question of whether these groups will even be able to prescribe, while the measurement of even the pressure will be regarded as luxury. This is amputation of the concept and the mission of primary care, which you call it a "perfect". It is amputation of the minimum benefits which the people's families have had because, with the composition of these groups and the number of health groups that will be made up of it, it only sounds funny what you claim, that "it will provide integrated and quality services to the whole population and especially to sensitive social groups". Your words. You say that these groups will complement the other public units of primary health care, i.e. PEDY doctors, health centers, regional doctors. That would be true if these public units were staffed with all the necessary staff and equipped with both machinery and workshops, which are of course working. But almost none of this is true. In fact, you do not complement the public primary health system, but the least that exists makes it even worse. And this staff who will serve local units will be fixed-term workers, that is, staff with reduced rights and remuneration, which will be altered between cheaply intensified and unemployment, which, of course, will also be devalued as qualified scientific staff. Nor is there any funding provided for in the state budget. On the contrary, it is said that the project will be implemented by the temporary financing of the ESRB, which means that you are setting the ground in the next period to pass the full responsibility of local administration and the imposition of local tax in order to continue to operate. Ladies and gentlemen, in a legitimate way, too, public health establishments are strengthening their operation as businesses with the label of the public, reciprocity is being strengthened in the provision of their services. Legally apply the caps and cuts in medical laboratory tests, medicines, sanitary material, etc. In patients not on dialysis, once the target haemoglobin has been achieved with once every two weeks dosing, the dose should be increased by 2 g/ dl (7.5 mmol/ l). Legally, medical care and hospitality were given to uninsured people, but without the state putting one euro from the state budget. In order for uninsured persons to have this right, they should normally pay participations, as should the insured, while the responsibility for state funding has been transferred to the underfinanced again by the EEA State and to the public health units. This is a well-known Syrian Euro-Union trick, treating with foreign sticks. On the one hand, with their policy, they create fatalized people and on the other, they put - you put - the least poor people to pay to deal with the problem. One of the measures in this regard is an increase in contributions to main pensions to 6% and the same rate of application to supplementary pensions. However, even for what patients are supposed to be entitled to in practice to pay for, since in many cases, for example, in islands, in areas other than large urban centres, there are no infrastructures, whether there are medical equipment, machinery, or even basic specialities, such as cardiologists, pediatricians and others. Ladies and gentlemen, all governments are prepared to take measures to deal with corruption, interlocutory and so on. There's a rich legislative arsenal. However, when the health sector develops on the basis of the cost of benefits, when public health units, to have everything they need, are dependent on various business groups, machinery, medicines, medical tools, reagents, health material, electricity, oil, water, profit hunting is the breeding greenhouse for corruption, money laundering and everything that follows. No examination can deal with this, just as it has not been dealt with and no one has yet been able to deal with it. For example, the 'NOVARTIS' case is not the first one nor will it be the last one. It is one of the cases, which at times are on the surface, of course, as a result of the war between pharmaceutical companies to claim greater pie on the market. And now that there is a closed budget for public pharmaceutical expenditure we may see a lot more, since the pharmaceuticals' dowry is claimed by many grooms. The fact is that in these conditions of development, whoever grooms and prevails, the bride again will pay it, as will the people, the patients of the people. If the criterion of capitalist profit is not removed from the middle, corruption will continue, illegal and more legitimate, there will continue to be the huge problem for people's health, and we will continue to be doing so and discuss committees of inquiry. At the same time as there is huge progress in science, technology, and there is a large number of qualified health personnel, for the people, things are going relatively or completely backwards. The Government claims that Henry Dunn Hospital was transformed from public benefits to a private hospital. This hospital, owned by the largest NGO in Greece, the Greek Red Cross, has been operating since the beginning as a normal business. Patients were normally paid either directly or through the insurance funds. The control of irregularities and illegality - the former president of Dynan is already in custody - does not say that no one will be done or claim to do so. However, this alone cannot answer the gentleman, that is, that the whole development of this hospital also took place in the territory of competition, of business activity in the health sector. He had all the evidence that this capitalist economy operates here, including the depreciation of this hospital in order to be just a cheap prey for the big businessmen in the area. When all the other political forces extinguished the pattern of mixed economy in the example of Henry Dynan that the other state hospitals, as they were saying, were the only party that pointed out that business activity in this form was nothing good for either the patients or the rest of the workers. The only solution from the point of view of serving the people's interests is that this hospital passes to its full ownership, financing and operation by the state. In the health sector, therefore, the pro-collegiate, social, political and economic overall proposal to overthrow the JRC is seen. We believe that today's proposals for immediate relief, decongestion of hospitals, with recruitment of medical and nursing staff, with provision for infrastructure, medical equipment and medicines, with a generous increase in state funding, should also be incorporated in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC agrees to investigate the matter. We do not see the reason why it should not be extended until now, until this time when we are speaking or not including a year ago or more, if necessary. This will be cleared up and you have nothing to hide nor anyone to cover up by current or former ministers, etc. So simple and clear are things. In the political games that all of you play in, of course, we are not involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u184	First of all, Mr Secretary-General, I would like to make a clarification. In my morning report, I had no intention of involving the Communist Party of Greece. My reference to unwritten communists should have made it clear to you that I was not talking to you. You are normal communist writings and, indeed, serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u185	Let go of that. The people know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u186	What you're saying makes sense. I disagree with what you're saying, but what you're saying makes sense. What they say, such as Mr Katrugalos, who said he is a communist, while at the same time voting for a memorandum and at the same time wants it to be in the European Union, does not make any sense. That was my report. Mr President, you will give me one or two more minutes. Mr. Lappa, let's get along in a row. In politics we can have very large political disagreements, huge and we must also have one. To question each other's ethos, but without evidence and to organize such a mud campaign - I am not saying for you - as has been held lately against me, that really shows the true ethos of SYRIZA. I'm coming to the object. You have put Mr Vaxebanes to write "Adonis Georgiades asks for an election in order for his crimes to be tampered with". Yes, sir. First of all, I imagine that the Constitution has read it. For everything that has been done by 31 December 2014, there has been a limitation on the elections of September 2015. So, if I were afraid of something, it's stupid for Mr. Vaxvanis to write it, because he hasn't read the Constitution. You badly put him on and exposed the man. But I'll take it a little different today. I make an irrevocable statement to Parliament: make me preliminary and take me to the Special Court, and I give up any limitations. I want, if you have the guts, you take me to court and I'll make you a dog fool there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u187	That's not how it's done!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u188	I am thinking now, since I give up the limitation and the right, that you too, Mr. Xanthi, Mr. Kurublis, Mr. Polakis, who has no limitations, do you have any objection to your own control or do you have any objections? For you are against Article 86, from what I remember. So since you are also against Article 86 and are proposing to come out of the Constitution, this is a glorious field! No limitations, no limitations! Now let's go to the Committee of Inquiry, so we can check it out! Let's go to second. You won't, because there's a difference between the two of us. Mr. Paulakis came to the House here and accused me of twenty-three illegal appointments to CEDEFOP. He also involved my wife, because - he says - he found a raft, a paper, which he presented to Parliament under the name of Manolidou and did not even know that Manolidou was the head of the recruitments to the EMCDDA and apparently to Manolidou was referring to the paper. She didn't even know and involved my wife for no reason and she hasn't apologized yet. However, there is a difference between the two of us. Mr. Paulakis accused me of illegal appointments to CEDEFOP, asked for justice to intervene, investigates justice and justice has not persecuted me, nor has he even called me to explain. He hasn't found anything. However, with regard to Mr Polakis now, in my report on the complaints he has been prosecuted to the extent of a felony by three of his employees. The first prosecutor, Mr. Polakis, to enter the file, used the argument that they were carrying out political orders, that is, your orders, not that they were not illegal. I now ask the Members of SYRIZA: will you let three officials of Mr. Paulakis go to jail for the orders of Mr. Paulakis, who were also executed by Mr. Paulakis - Leventis, brave - let his employees go to jail without him wanting to go forward and protect them? Is he that brave? So our difference is that you accuse me of recruitment, while you are blamed by Greek justice for recruitment. Now, the transgressional circuit you wrote, you can tell the Justice Minister to go and look into it. Now we're going to Henry Dunan. The litigation said that Mr. Martinis was singing. Listen! It's a disgrace, really! Is Mr. Martinis singing? Listen to the case-file how it signes. Listen!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u189	Circuit says it, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u190	Yeah. I read the last line of the Martin statement: 'I swear that I am a Christian orthodox non-homophobic.' That's how man's testimony to Greek justice ends up. Are you not ashamed to use a man - who is obviously confused by his prison and adventure - in order to create political impressions? Has Mr Lappas gone up to Parliament - he was the first to talk about Henry Dunan - and what did he say? That Mr. Sourlas and others were saying how he became "Dynan" and how he was found with such great debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u191	In 2013!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u192	Yes, of course! Then he said: "How did Georgiadis ask for the resignation of the command of "Dynan?". So what do you say at the same time? At the same time, you say that there was an administration in Dynn that reached such a mess, had 300 million debts and then you ask 'but this dishonourable Georgiadis asked for the resignation of this administration'. So what did you want us to do with this administration? You wanted to give them a prize, why did you come to owe the 'Dynan' 300 million?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u193	Did you have a right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u194	I'll tell you later if I had a right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u195	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u196	Or do you come and defend Andreas Martine in the House? Is that what you're doing? Because after I took him out of Dynn's command, he went to jail. So you have to tell us if you're defending him. Is that why you came here? Now, as to whether I had a right, that was in court, Mr. Lappa, because, when we went to court to appoint an administration, he came to the other side and said that I had no right. Do you know what the court ruled? That I had a right, and so I appointed a new command. Now, if you want to say that the court has misjudged it, what can I tell you? I'm not a court.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u197	Get us the decision to see her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u198	I, as the Minister of Health...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Lappa, please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u200	But, well, you said you studied the Martine deposit in depth. If you were to study it in depth, you would know that Martine's statement states in the court's ruling that the administration was appointed upon request. So you haven't read the Martine deposit. Do you know about this terrible scandal because the other ministers are accused of? Mr. Mitarakis is accused of why - he says - for a year he was not given an appointment and that is why they brought the Minister to the House. Mr. Lykourenzos is accused of not seeing him - he says - for a year, as if he had to see him. Mr. Hadjidakis - the very best - because as supervising Minister he did not check on Mr. Metarakis who did not come out to Mr. Martin on the phone. That's all the litigation in there. You're talking about this case-file, you're talking about the so-called big scandal? Well, let go of these. Vote for preliminary rulings and I and Vorides will go to court. Vote now if you dare! Mr. Manda, you have been provoked by Mr. Voridis for two weeks, and you said you would answer. Why don't you do a preliminary? What does the examination need? Make preliminarily direct. I also challenge you to resign.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u201	Good. Mr. Georgiadis, time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u202	We're taking it to court 'cause he wouldn't get on the phone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u203	Time has passed, Mr. Georgiades.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u204	I need two more minutes, Mr. President. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u205	No more two. I gave you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u206	Two more please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u207	Yeah, but what are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u208	I'll see you at the exam.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u209	Nine o'clock I'll cut you off. You should know that. But you won't ask for two more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u210	Okay, thank you very much. Now, listen, because you don't want to go to your period. I imagine after me Mr. Kurublis will speak. I consider all my political opponents to be honest and decent in advance. I'm not saying he's a thief, just like you let the papers write about me. Because you're the ones. But I directly ask Mr Kurublli two questions: First of all, Mr Kurubli, you have abolished the EPC procedure for the purchase of medicinal products organised by the previous Minister, Mr Vorides. It was your first decision, 30m euros more for the Greek State. Then you said that you wanted to make the competition with the fifty, thirty, twenty with which I agree as a methodology. Ever since you abolished the competition to date, Mr. Kurubli, has the competition been abolished by fifty, thirty, twenty that you wanted to change? Oh, no. Why has it not been done, Mr Kurubli, for two and a half years the competition with the fifty, thirty, twenty that you had announced? Shouldn't we investigate it? That's thirty million euros! Secondly, you did not make a price report in 2015. Then you said, Mr Kurublé, because I remember that you would put a unified rebate which, if you put it, would get a further 140 million from the pharmaceutical industry. Did you put it, Mr. Curublis? You put the rebate on it? The next ones put it in from you just got the power? If you did not put it either and the next of you did not issue a price report, neither will you nor the next of you tell us, Mr Kurubli, or Mr Xanthi, or if you know, Mr Polakis, why would you make such a huge gift to the pharmaceutical industry? Let's go to the last for the CDC. First of all, the report that there had been no control until the SYRIZA Government came to power is funny. I am tabling a series of inspections for both our days and before us, from the ILO, from the Ministry of Finance, from the Labour Inspectorate, from everyone. There's no body that hasn't checked the CDC over the past few years. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But listen, Mr Polakis, because you said before that you wait for me and I close with it. I challenge you when you come to Stepa to testify if you have the answer to the CCI service - if it has yet to come out - for these supposedly twenty-three appointments I have made. I expect you to submit it to the Minutes. Do you know why I'm telling you to testify? I put the following paper to the House: the complaint of workers by an extrajudicial declaration made the day before yesterday, Saturday. The workers' president, Rosenberg, tried to alter the CEDEFOP protocol. Do you know that, Mr. Polakis? The police have gone. Not to worry, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, why did some people try to alter the protocol to CEDEFOP and the Greek Police went on Saturday to sue the workers? [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I close by submitting a document from the "DIAGY" for the Ministry of Health for the Minutes. Only for the months of January and February 2017 have you given the security company CEDEFOP - listen to the number of SYRIZA colleagues who are voting not to control all of this - 699.955 euros. In other words, 700 thousand euros have been given to the security company for two months, for January and February. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would ask you, Mr Polakis and Mr Xanthi, because this is not about Mr Kurublis. Mr Kourublis if he wants to answer for Mr Giannopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Georgiadis, you're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Kourublis appointed the president of the CEDEFOP as the decent man, and Mr. Paulakis in the House called him a crook. I want, Mr Kurublis, to know if Mr Thanasis Giannopoulos is decent or not to you, or is a crook, as Mr Paulakis says. I am therefore telling you that since December 2015 you have put the CCRIN in the public accountancy. This means that for every euro spent you must have tendered. Can you tell me what process you are paying this company and can you tell me if you have received a written offer with much less money for the same services? To submit tenders in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u213	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u214	All of this, ladies and gentlemen, we will not control it, you say, because you will vote on what Mr Brittanos said yesterday. But here's what you're wrong with, Mr. Xanthi. The wheel turns. The majority in the House is broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u215	You're closed, Mr. Georgiadis. You're very welcome. Respect time tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u216	And I'm telling you better for you to be investigated now than then. You're wrong. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Delis has the floor from the JRC, and then Mr. Michaloliacos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u218	When am I supposed to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u219	You're next, Minister. You have your time. Show coolness and calmness. What can we do? In twenty-fifths, Mr Georgiadis mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u220	Then I'll talk to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u221	Okay. You say that you will speak as a normal speech. You won't talk after Mr. Delis because he's Mr. Michaloliacos. Then. They're four other political leaders. As ministers, you will enter between before the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u222	Now he wants to answer. Don't you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Economou, please. You have already intervened. Mr. Georgiadis doesn't need a lawyer. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, another examinatory, another diversion of the government, while packing the new barbaric package of anti-grassroots measures which it agreed with its partners. This time, therefore, the government's examination will investigate some possible health scandals in the years 1997 to 2014. But why do you not explain exactly what kind of research is going to be done and, above all, who will be done? Will it include, for example, Minister, this investigation and all the business groups involved in health, or do you intend to leave them outside? We're waiting for an answer. In addition, however, the scope of the investigation is limited from 1997 to 2014. So why would the investigation stop in 2014 and not make it to the present day? Why are you followers of transparency and of everything in light denying the investigation for your own government service? Has central policy changed to health? Has health ceased to move on the tracks of the European Union's strategy or since 2015, and here health has ceased to be a commodity and has it suddenly become a social asset provided equally to everyone, and the world has not taken it? You want to talk about scandals in health? Let's talk. Is it or is it not scandalous, and even dangerous many times for the life of peoples themselves, the enormous shortages in medical, nursing staff and medical equipment? Is it or is it not scandalous to lose two people in the last few days in Halkidiki because of a lack of rescuers? Is it or is it not a scandal for many clinics and laboratories across the country to retire, health centers, thousands of people to wait for months on the lists for a health problem and their great need to fall on the nails of the expensive health dealers, selling sometimes what they have and do not have? Is it or is it not scandalous to reduce the State grant to the EEA by 200 million and this deficit to cover it by taking it from the pensioners' pockets, by imposing a contribution of 6% on the main and supplementary pensions? Or is it not perpetuating, and even challenging, toward the health workers, who are experiencing exhaustive working conditions, that the government should go out every three or a little and advertise health recruitments, which do not even make up for retirement departures? Let us not talk about permanent staff, but about contractors for certain months of part-time work and with reduced rights. The biggest scandal, which gives rise to all the rest and for which you are constantly discussing, is the merchandising of health and your own policy here of the government, like your predecessors, it serves. Only one clue is enough to prove it. From 2009 until today, in other words, over the last eight years, state and insurance funds have paid for drugs around 60% less, while the insured paid 43% more money for drugs. And if we add and what the people insured for the negative list drugs that's growing up and putting on so-called unprescribed drugs, what the people in their pocket paid for, otherwise, is not said. What's all this? Did they fall out of the sky? Is it not the result of the political choices of the New Democracy, PASOK and today's SYRIZA - ANEL, choices bearing the European Union's seal? And what does today's conflict think? Will it hide its own responsibilities, because it stops the committee's work in 2014? The responsibilities of all of you cannot be concealed, no matter how hard you try, no matter how hard you fight in here, because the unacceptable health situation lives on their faces every day. Because this unacceptable situation, not only continues, but is worsening, taking into account modern and increased needs, because you see, we are in 2017 and not in the 19th century. Now, in closing, Mr President, there is a lot of experience among the people by such committees of inquiry. No problem, and they never solved, despite the much noise and the hard fights that erupted. Some people might incriminate them and pay her. The system, however, and the policy, you always make it 'oil'. You always acquitted them. In conclusion, despite this negative experience, we participate as a Communist Party of Greece in the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry and claim two basic things. Firstly, research should extend to all the factors forming the dangerous health situation as a whole, and secondly, this research should not have time limitations and so far. In any case, the solution to the public health problem lies in the hands of the people themselves. It is in the struggle of the working class and the populaces who must raise the issue of health more decisively at the heart of their struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Delia. Excuse me, Mr Michaloliakos, before I give you the floor, I will give the floor to Minister Kurublis, who has asked for an intervention because there has been several references to his name and his term of office. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, many of my colleagues have given me the honour of referring to my name and that is why I wanted to say a few thoughts. Firstly, Mr President, I am very pleased that those who referred to my name and to the period when I was the Secretary-General of the Welfare, acknowledge that I had so much health capacity, unless they do not know how the Ministry of Health was working. Honestly, however, if I had been asked, I would say, "Start this period, which I was Secretary-General in the examination because the Mitsotakis family must answer where the millions that gathered his late mother's solidarity union have gone." So if they want to open up a guerrilla war, I'm from an area of the Valtos that we know well what guerrilla war means. Mr President, is there a Greek who does not understand that the big parties have been held in health? Who questioned overprications from 2007, 2008, 2009, which unfortunately legitimised the PASOK in July 2010 and when I told the MEGA TV that I would not vote, why was I in that department, replaced my party? Who disputes, Mr President, that millions of vaccines and other drugs are in the Ministry of Health's warehouse and when purchased there was no provision in the last pharmacy? Do you know what the last pharmacy is doing, ladies, with pharmaceuticals? It says that if a medicine approaches its end, it is returned. That's not even what happened. Are there no political responsibilities? In 2006, the law was passed, which provided that insurance funds, which buy medicines, would be returned to them by 4%. Do you know how much money this is? Has a euro ever been returned to the multinationals, ladies and gentlemen? Let's ask. Shouldn't we ask that? In the past five years, citizens' social security contributions have increased from 12% to 26%. Shouldn't we ask who won this? Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the report on the invitations to tender for medicinal products. On 17 October 2012, the then Minister for Health stated that companies that will not fulfil their obligations, that is, they will be declared brokers, will not participate again on the basis of the regulation in another competition. So the same company that did not respond took the next competition. Shouldn't political responsibility be sought? I, ladies and gentlemen, am not a judge. If there are no judicial decisions that are final, I refuse to go into the logic of incriminating people. Here we are setting up a committee, which, after all, Members do not all have the same responsibility, nor do all the ministers. What does Mr. Mitsotakis want? Can I ask him to ask Mrs Bakoyannis what she told me in 2010 about the ministers of the New Democracy? That PASOK leaves them in the unavoidable? Do you want to say such things? We can talk. So, let's go to my period, the spectacular one, as you say. Ladies and gentlemen, ten commandments were given to all the central agencies of the Ministry. May I ask you this: have you ever done any checks? Are we going to find out how many millions of people were lost there, who bought them three times as much as they bought them, for example, the Hippocrates? Shouldn't we find out? All other organisations, psychiatric hospitals, private clinics were found by the investigation, which we gave at the time, two and a half million more days of hospitalization. That meant 50 million. Shouldn't he be investigated? Does anyone disagree about these things? For the invoicing, because I hear it: is it possible to say these things by people who are serious, who know, ladies and gentlemen? Speaking of a man, rapporteur, and saying there was no invoicing? Ladies and gentlemen, the invoicing was somewhat delayed because the troika was calling for the abolition of the EUR 12 limit, which I have to acknowledge was an attempt made by Mr Georgiadis. You know what 12 euros were protecting. That's why he's late. After all, it was in August last year. So, where do you see the purposes? Ask the Troika - you know them - to see what objections they raised to proceed with the invoicing process. Mr Carone checked the ministerial decision on 20 August when the EUR 12 threshold was abolished. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u227	Please, Minister, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u228	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you really think there is a gap in this matter, please send them to the prosecutor. I too should resign, Mr Georgiadis, from all protections of immunity, if you think that there is such a matter. But be a little serious. Here, we are trying to have a debate - and we have to do it - on a level, firstly, that protects the political world, because we do not all have the same responsibilities. Secondly, we need to have a debate that does not easily incriminate every citizen. We must therefore go to a process which really has the political responsibilities that each has on the basis of its role. From there on, judge the Greek people. If there are issues that really reach the limits of criminal responsibility, there is justice. We're talking about "NOVARTIS" and we're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u229	Please, Minister, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u230	Have years ago been commissioned without any procedure in this company? Should we not here, ladies and gentlemen, as a political system at last at last all check why the multinational companies in Greece do not have any profits, when their parent companies are productive and have 20% mid-weights, and Greek production also produce profits and they do not have almost any profits? Under the tolerance of the political system, all this has been done. Let's talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u232	Will we all take such initiatives together, to open up this story, when right now, all these institutions' gentlemen are asking that pensions be cut off? These are the issues that need to be opened up in such a fruitful and creative dialogue to finally seem at some point, ladies and gentlemen, and I am closing down, Mr President, and thank you - and political responsibility and fairness and the sense of justice and the sense of patriotism. Because in the end, with that logic, what has been done in this country will destroy it. Because in order to make impressions, we say that some have been favoured and we never have the logic that we should support production in Greece, as all other countries do, except us. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u236	First of all, Mr Minister, you made a reference to the disposal of money by a club, which concerned the late Mrs Marika Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u237	I didn't say anything. If you know, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u238	I ask you directly: do you agree to go to 1996 and 2015 and 2017?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u239	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u240	When you're addressing me, because you know I respect you, be careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u241	Minister, thank you for suggesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u242	Minister, you're out of microphone and not written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Kurublis is trying to irritate me, but he's not going to succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Minister is revoking. Go on, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u245	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u246	I wasn't talking to you personally, Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u247	I know you weren't talking about me. Minister, I would like to ask you directly: do you intend to go to 1996 and 2015-2017? Will you vote in favour of the proposal that includes 1996 and 2015-2017? That is the first question. Question two.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u248	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u249	Mr. President, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u250	Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u251	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u252	Please, Minister, do not intervene again. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, the question of the New Democracy, by means of me, is answered by yes or no...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u254	It's a rhetorical question. It's the Bureau. When you say yes or do not want Mr. Kourublis to get back up again and go by 18.00. Please. Please. The question has been put in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I understand that the Minister will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u256	You got it. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u257	The second is that he has told us something extremely interesting. He told us that in August 2015 there was a price sheet for medicinal products, which, in fact, told us that Mr Carone checked it if I heard the name correctly. So the question is, then, addressed - and Mr Kurubli and Mr Xanthos. What happened to this price sheet? Because we never saw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u258	You're not answering, Mr. Kurubli. Please! The two Ministers are next.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u259	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Curublis! Please, Minister! The two ministers of government are next to be posted. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u261	First of all, this issue has been raised before the...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u262	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u263	Mr. President, mercy! There's no solution today!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u264	Please, Mr Kurubli, I have told you on several occasions that you are out of microphone. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, I need a minute. I don't have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u266	You got it a little bit. Slowly exhaust it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u267	So there are two issues. Firstly, the direct position of the Minister on the proposal of the New Democracy and the second, the explanation of his reference here for the issue in August 2015. We understand, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u268	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u269	Aah! We said a little bit, but no drop, drop! Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a joke. If the paper was - if there was - we do not know, the Minister tells us, the first time we hear it - and yet the next Minister did not do anything, then there are great responsibilities of the next Minister. If it did not exist, then there are great responsibilities of the previous Minister. There is no chance that there will be no responsibilities. This, after the placement here by Mr Kourublis, has become quite clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u270	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u271	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Curublis, you don't have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u273	Give me the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u274	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u275	Mr. Dendia, if it's scandal and you're denounced now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u276	You denounced it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u277	Listen! If it is scandalous and you hadn't been informed in 2015 and you said it after two years, it means that you are completely indisputable, you don't know what happens to you and you want to govern Greece. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u278	You're sorry, too. It's been signed, too. Mr. Michalop, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, Mr Kurublis, mentioned earlier that we need to do something to protect the political world. I answer you: There is nothing you can do. Throughout Greece, every cafe, every village, every city, every street, they say they deceive politics. These dialogues, which have been heard before, are precisely confirming. I will accept that both the one and the one are not right. What is certain is that both of us and the others have not ruled and the scandals exist. In recent months, we have a political account on the part of the New Democracy that the evaluation will not pass and that we will have elections, that elections are coming. Eventually the elections didn't come. However, the spokesman of the former New Democracy in his expression "the wheel turns" again speaks of elections. Neither the New Democracy will gain anything from the elections nor SYRIZA, who is at risk - after the strong PASOK which he has received, both in terms of votes and in terms of officials and ministers - by means of PASOK. He's at risk of deterioration. A large part of this political deterioration by decision of the people, despite all the mud you are throwing, will be collected by those who consider the absolute evil, by us Chryssayites, who are the third political force and constantly go up and genuinely express the Greek people. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Friday morning, March 31, a group of twenty people... I'm sorry I'm leaving this thing. I don't have another chance. The channels you'd be able to make, like the previous ones, the strife that you'd fight for, after all, only fight us. On Friday, then, the morning of March 31, twenty people attacked the Golden Dawn headquarters in an attack clearly terrorist and murderous. They wanted to burn alive people, as they did to Marfin, where Greek justice considered that no one is guilty and acquitted those who were referred back, Marfin, which everyone has forgotten. In a similar way, on Friday, March 31, we had an attack on our offices. Thank you very much for all the parties. He broke my phone that day from the political leaders' phones condemning the attack. All parties issued press releases. Is that true? Of course not. 'I condemn' we have not heard from anyone. When you do not listen to 'didn't', it means 'I don't condemn'. Unless what Thucydides says is true, when in a state attitude no one takes part, then he is "politically dishonest". That's the term Thucydides. Details about the attack on the Golden Dawn are irreparably exposing the state of SYRIZA. Suffice it to say that against the very offices of the Golden Dawn is the testicle of the DIA group and none came from there. It came after half an hour from the Business Center notified by the Kifisia OPEC. So, undoubted terrorists, the'red' terrorists, hit our offices. It is incomprehensible to'red' terrorism. We have reached the point even outside the home of the murdered Paul Bakoyannis throwing notices, praising and seeking privileges for those who murdered him. I remember in earlier times, in the 1980s, a crime, the 'feeling of a felony', had been invented by the regime. There was a party then, ENPEN, and those who were sticking with a picture of Papadopoulos, or throwing a skeleton, were referring to justice for the sake of glorification of a felony. In the case of Marxist paramilitaries, however, this does not exist. The'red' terrorism and protected by the state of SYRIZA, which is wonderfully communist in its slogans and wonderful capitalist in its economic policy, is incomprehensible, as we see with the wonderful memorials. I would really like to ask the following question. This examination concerns the health and health of workers. The previous question was the former Minister of National Defence of PASOK, Yannos Papantoniou, who was referred to the Committee of Inquiry. We doubt whether he will be brought to justice. We'll see. Because if what happened in the previous committee of inquiry with the debts of parties and media, nothing will happen. In this case, before Giannos Papantoniou, he had been brought to justice and to prison - now unleashed - Akis Tsohatzopoulos. What did Janos Papantoniou and Akis Tsohatzopoulos have in common? They had one and the same Prime Minister, Constantine Simitis, whom the political establishment of both the New Democracy and SYRIZA protects. Simitis, who had said "thank the Americans" on the night of the Immion, the Simitis who is responsible for entering our country with false data, which led our country to the national and economic disaster. You don't touch the Shirt. On the contrary, people of Simitis are in circumstantial positions, such as the Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournaras, who, after the New Democracy had placed it, had taken a position not to place it, because you will change it. Finally, not only did you not change it, you kept it and at the moment he is a dominant player of the game that is played against Greece with the great memorials. Try hard-cut ways to make propaganda, cultivate a climate of division, convince the Greek people that you are still communists. As if 35% of the Greek people who voted for you are communists. Thus, the one of the tunnels linking Thessaly with Macedonia, the Tempus tunnel, called it "captain Vracan". Except that Captain Vracan - and to hear this in the Greek Parliament - was a colonel of the so-called Democratic Army. And if the Democratic Army were to win, there would be no Macedonia in Greece. Because by official decisions, the JRC had spoken since the 1920s about independent Macedonia and Thrace. Even in January 1949 there were JRC's decisions that the Macedonian people will take their national independence in exchange for their struggle. For all this, of course, this apologised gentleman, who was not a mere communist, was a hard stalinist, resulting in 1956, when he was distilled, to be exiled to Tashkent. A similar show was played with the Athens-Patras National Road, where one of the tunnels called it "Andreas Papandreou" to honor your voters, to honor your executives, all these PASOK executives, which are still up to Ministers. And otherwise, you do not represent the old political system. Very good. And we heard what Mr Kourublis also said earlier, when he was stopped by the Ministry's Secretary General on social welfare issues, because in 2010 he accepted the overpriced price that had been made by the New Democracy. You also called a 'Kestis Palamas' tunnel. They'll feed Palama's bones. In this House, I have told you once again of a Palama verse concerning you communists. Don't say it wasn't a political verse, because that poem of Palama had answered Varnalis himself. The poem said: "Calamarians and locals and Bolsheviks, for empty reasons and for the misery the artifacts". That was Palamas. We are therefore coming to another examination. And I read from the previous exam that you said: "The country's equipment programs have always been a source of risks for corruption of structures and individuals. The following armaments programmes go back to a more comprehensive period during which they were culminated, do and omit the old political system, which led the country to bankruptcy.’ And you say: "The stock exchange, equipment, overrun of Olympic works, media lending and parties, compiled the image of interchange and corruption". Now you add - and you add them quite rightly - health issues. Of course, in all these things, we should also take note of a small detail, which is not at all detailed, it is a huge matter, that Greece has been a country of health tourism for at least fifteen years. They come from every country in Eastern Europe, with poor health systems, and Asia and are hospitalized for free in Greece. That was one of the reasons, beyond scandals and excesses, that led the country to bankruptcy and the health system to collapse. Previously, Minister of your Government has referred to some vaccines. Except that the political responsible for these vaccines is being honored by the SYRIZA Government and is now also a commissioner in the European Union. I have not seen any action taken in this direction. Keep an eyelid. Of course, the major political issue that arises is that, if health issues, armaments, the issues of the stock exchange, the Olympic Games have led the country to bankruptcy, this admission of yours alone is why Greece's foreign debt is illegal and you should make the obvious, which you had in the past promised, to denounce the debt as illegal, to stop the payments to international loan sharks, for the Greek people to live. You should have reported the debt. You don't. Even the debt relief that you were advertising that you were going to achieve, you did not succeed, and everything shows that we are moving in a fourth memorandum. You are asking for a health committee, in the case of the Hospital of “Red Cross”, “Herricos Dynan”, which is indeed a jewel, which was paid by the Greek people, and which was sold for a lentic plate literally. Those who have responsibility for this, both in terms of PASOK and in terms of the New Democracy, must be accounted for. The given is one: Henry Dunan Hospital should not be sold at this price. Scandal is a given. I am afraid, however, that in the way in which the political system works - which does not save what the situation goes - Article 86 of the Constitution, which, as you will review it, will essentially leave it incompletely, says, in the case of political responsibilities - this is how parliamentary immunity is done - nothing will go ahead. We have heard talk about the CDC as well. I really do not understand what you, of SYRIZA and of the New Democracy, will become if there is genuine control over CEDEFOP and this control goes to newspapers and television stations, supported by other SYRIZA, others in the New Democracy. Why don't you move on to this energy? billions of euros have been wasted from CEDEFOP in advertisements that are really for laughter where they were published. 'NOVARTIS': We're talking about Americans having videos. We with our representative in the Committee of Inquiry will ask for these videos. To come up with these videos to see which ministers were talking to "NOVARTIS" and who did all these bad things. However, while you are sensitive to these things and what comes from justice you move it here and do waivers of immunity, Committees of inquiry, I inform you that since February 14, 2017 a regular interrogator of the Athens Court of First Instance has been conducting a main interrogation for violation of the phone secret of former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras' phone for his famous conversation, in which he called for a judicial officer to confiscate Golden Dawn MPs. We had also filed a lawsuit, because the condoms had a prior date from the date of their detention. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Will you have the political courage, of SYRIZA, to ask for a committee of inquiry? We have seventeen Members. We're not getting there. You will not have it, because you are supporting with New Democracy this rotten political system that is the only enemy of the enemy is Golden Dawn. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I need two more minutes, Mr President. The case of Baltakos video, for which my competitor, MP of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiaris, and the exculpatory counsel that came out, said and pointed out: "It is also a fact that the truth or truth of the claims made by Panagiotis Baltakos, contained in the contested intercept, did not arise. Nor, of course, did it come up whether this matter was investigated in the context of another independent judicial investigation, and indeed, with the meticulousness, perseverance and the greatest possible transparency and publicity that its importance required." You didn't do anything about it either. Hand to New Democracy in hunting witches against Golden Dawn. Because the last thing has come up again with the national currency and it may seem that the partners will unite and return to 68 – so things show - we insist on the 'euro or Greece' dilemma and we choose Greece. And this yellow star flag is a brand, it's not a flag of Greece, it's not a flag of our homeland. Whatever you do, no matter how much you try to throw mud and fight the Golden Dawn, as recently happened with a new golden lady, a large part of the people wake up. In every corner of Greece, in every village, we are the third political force, whether you want it or not, and we constantly go up. Lenin had said that the worse we go, the better for us. This now applies to the Golden Dawn, the movement of Greek nationalists.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u280	Mr Katsikis has the floor and then the Deputy Minister for Health Mr Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, presenting today's proposal is another evidence of the implementation of the SYRIZA - ANEL commitments to ensure and make plundering, fragmenting and proprietary public money available. As I mentioned in the previous debate on the setting-up of a committee of inquiry on armaments, our decision to shed plenty of light on all cases of the destruction and misuse of citizens' money is a decision that has been made. I am particularly pleased with the fact of consensus in this proposal, almost all of the political spectrum. The earthly space has been the thick cow for years, which the crows were milking. Eaglemen set up the system fine. With the lack of control mechanisms and opacity in management, public money has become more and more private. The provision of immunity by the parties, with the maintenance of political tolerance, has shaped favourable conditions for the maintenance of corruption. Economic health scandals, especially now, in the harsh times of the crisis, need immediate investigation. The CEDEFOP scandal is another stone in the uncontrolled expensive public health party. The finding of the inspectors of the General Accounting Office of the State showed that only from 2012 to 2014, a period of deep economic crisis of EUR 3.5 million was given directly to the mass media for scandalous advertising campaigns, such as the rare and extraordinary phenomenon of seasonal influenza - ironically I say it - the contagious diseases such as cancer - ironically I say it - when they could be done free of charge as social messages. Why, gentlemen of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, has CEDEFOP been excluded from all the obligations of a public body? Why was it excluded from the obligation to keep tax books? Why was it excluded from the obligation to hire employees through ADP? Why doesn't he have any rules of procedure? Why doesn't he even have a computer? Because it was simply the center of absolute opacity. In 2015, by law of the current government, all these exceptions were abolished. The CEDEFOP party began in 1998, which was founded and was excluded, as I said, from the provisions concerning commissions, recruitments and contracts. When its purpose was expanded in 2003 and it was given the opportunity to conclude project contracts with third parties without the approval procedure, the party now becomes an institution. The auditors' phrase ‘the staffing of the CEDEFOP did not provide any guarantee of transparency’ says it all. In the 2013 census, there were five hundred ninety-six employees. One year later, in the 2014 census, the number of workers reached eight hundred eighteen. Half of them were administrative staff with low educational skills. The CERVO had then become the main vehicle of all previous governments to serve routings and appointments. The provisions also became unbelievable things. Everything was done without requests, without supporting documents and, of course, without assurances of good execution, since it did not work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. There was no head of economic services. All cost-management and repayment decisions were taken by the administration. There was no accounting. There were no details of the financial operation of the entity, and since 2011 each accounting computerisation programme has been abandoned. This, of course, helped some, since there was an absolute inability to display the assumptions of the actual amount of expenses and liabilities. However, it was considered necessary to work with an external financial consultant and a partner, which was given, for 2014 alone, 38,000 euros. They were giving payment orders to banks without any copies being kept. Money payments have been identified twice for the same reason to the same beneficiary. Another example was the rapid increase in reagents from EUR 2,000,000 to EUR 8,000,000, to the same supplier, of course. Of course, the so-called communication has received the lion's share of the so-called 'communication'. In 2014, 5.688,000 euros were paid to communicate the ERIC to the people and 2,404,000 euros to security services to protect them. From what truth were the CEDEFOP threatened, ladies and gentlemen? So, only for 2014, his expenses came to be 20,000,000 euros above his income. With this blunt picture of how the Greek State guaranteed and received a loan from the CEDEFOP, amounting to EUR 185,000? In other words, he asked for and received the people's guarantee - because that means Greek public, we are all - and he received such loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u282	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u283	I shall conclude, Mr President. If for all of this justice must not have a say and a role, then who should have? The complete exposure of the public system to small and large fraud is a given one. The frustration of the EEAS by hospitals, pharmacies, doctors, rehabilitation centers and private clinics brought to light checks by the competent authority: The syntax of thousands of euro drugs without the insured, thousands of boxes of medicines without coupons, virtual recipes, illegal export and sale of medicines, executions of prescriptions after the death of the insured, overpriced drugs, and indeed, with the blessing of the Ministry. Public spending on drugs has been detonated. In September 2014, with the blessings of Mr Samaras and the amendment of the New Democracy, the plan to grab Henry Dynan Hospital was sealed by Piraeus Bank, in which he was given the entire hospital at a price - scandal, free of all debts. So, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you made sure that Piraeus Bank put in hand except for the buildings, equipment and operating permission of the hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u284	Please, you've been closed, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u285	I'm closing, Mr. President. The government's consent was guaranteed in favour of the banking lobby at every stage of the extinction of the privatisation plan, even when sealed into the pitiful future for the hospital and the thousands of workers. In the terms of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Defence, the administration of the hospital and Piraeus Bank included a reduction in the labour costs of half, thus redundancies and wage reductions, flexible working relationships, staff restructuring and jobs, safeguarding debt and shutdown of debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u286	You're welcome, Mr. Katsiki. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u287	I'm done, Mr. President. When you sign your signature, gentlemen of PASOK and of New Democracy, under such agreements, do you really believe that you are serving the public interest? These abscesses that you've excavated and maintained for so many years, in the hope that they'll be in the adolescents, they'll be broken now. It will be opened by a government that isn't afraid of the hard stuff that doesn't matter to the threats that you don't hold from anywhere to blackmail it. They'll break, be sure. Don't doubt it. That is why we have nothing to do with the people involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u288	Thank you. Mr Paul Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I wish to devote it to two categories. Firstly, to my colleagues in the Piraeus Medical Association from all parts at the time, because as corruption has a horizontal distribution, honesty has a horizontal distribution. In April 2005, what we are discussing today was first heard at an event of the Piraeus Medical Association and were buried at the time by the media, with the honorary exception of "NATIONS" and Dimitra Sotiriadou, a journalist of "MEGA", who was one of the first to be fired when the cuts began. Secondly, I want to dedicate it to all our people and fellow citizens who in the first years of the crisis stood in front of the hospital guises, being uninsured, to humiliate them, telling them that to be hospitalized or to do tests we will test your tax debts. They are recently these documents that we submitted from "Venezel", because this solution was given by our colleagues who come out today and say that they made the health coverage of uninsured and other crap I hear here. We want to tell the Greek people that, for the first time after the post-collection, a government brings an examination committee on health. It brings her because we are not in the rotting and corruption system that this thing has gnawed in previous years. They also don't have us, and because they don't have us in hand, that's why we're doing this examination today. For so many years, despite the threats made by Mrs Bakoyannis, who was struggling for immunity with SIEMENS, we did not see any committee coming. It was the place that this is one of the biggest parties ever set up in the Greek state since 1821. Hundreds of findings! Hundreds of articles! Below what happened? Nothing. You have buried it all, in cooperation with a para-state that is embracing in all areas of public life. What are we talking about today? Between 1991 and 2010 some public and private expenditure was allocated together, 265 billion euros in the health sector. Of these, 60% were public expenditure - on average and over all years and playing - and 40% were private expenditure. Of these, 45 billion of the 160 billion public spending and 40 billion of each 100 billion of each way private spending was black money overpriced, illegal enrichment, challenger of demand, over-registration, robbery of the Greek people. This was done with the political blessings of a state that ruled Greece for forty years, which were coming out of various ministers and said "Yes, something is happening" etc., etc. and zero on the practicable. Because that's what happened. We're talking about 85 billion, about one quarter of public debt. That's what we're talking about today, and that's what we'll check out. First element of this party: Pharmaceutical expenditure. Data on the insurance funds: For the EBRD, in 2001 the public expenditure from the funds was EUR 1,937 billion and in 2009 it was EUR 5,4 billion. That's how sick they are? That's how much prices increased? That's how many new needs we've filled? More than half of this year is black money and this has been done on specific governments. The corresponding amount for hospitals began from about EUR 250 million per year to reach 1.2 billion in 2009. That's the reality. It's someone's fault. Why did this party happen? Why did it happen? Who organized it? Who guided it? "Corruption is a social phenomenon," said a vampire who came out of the closet a while ago. Yes, but it was guided by some politicians, this social phenomenon, it did not fall out of heaven. People are not born by being robbers and murderers. They are shaped through social relations and the system they live in. And someone led him politically. Who led him? The one who had in the Ministry of Development until 2010 the invoicing of drugs, the black hole. Should we not check whether they actually received the three lowest prices, which we were told, of the countries of the European Union and received the price in Greece? Why didn't they do that? Because there weren't any databases then and they admit it after. So it's a great party there without control of what price it's getting into Greece. Why would such a badge enter Greece? Because of Greece's price they were taking another fifty five countries. This continued after 2010-2012 for coming to the IOF. You have IOF employees and they say, "Children, how are we gonna check it out? What did you do before?" They've brought know-how. A Mr. Mania brought by Loverdos, a Mr. Maniadakis you brought later, who, with his computer and program, would pay off the price. Isn't that what it was?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u290	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u291	I'm telling the truth. He was your advisor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u292	The Prices Committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u293	He was sending you mail. 'Sign the decision, finish it'. These are publicized. They organized this thing and continued this party of overpricing and in the years to come. What they said about the three cheapest prices "courgettes with oregano". They were honored in three expensive countries, England, Switzerland, Germany. The exact average of expensive countries here, in fifty-five countries. There is - I submit it for the Minutes - an email from NOVARTIS, which has also been made public, which says that we have won 30% more than one company, 4% and 8% more of the other companies. That's what happened! It's been made public, too. They've buried everything, though. We're not seeing this. 'We must protect those who were partying together.' Because we didn't eat them together. They had fun together. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Let's go down. Should they not be investigated if they were finally on the positive list of medicines on your day and on the previous days, observing the rule of being compensated to 2/3 of the countries of the European Union? Has that happened? Because I know that has not been done and many medicines have entered without being compensated for in two-thirds of the countries of the European Union and on your days. Should we not check on the logic of the ministerial decisions which left two ways of tariffs for exemptions, and so Lucentis, which I said next time, instead of being invoiced in the way of the reduced recommendation - it is made available in a new form - went with the three countries and, instead of EUR 500, it received an insurance price of EUR 30 million per year, making a turnover of EUR 35 million per year? Let's go back. Should we not see the issue of medicinal products that bought in the flu of two hundred and fifty pounds of active substance osseltamivir and another ninety pounds of another preparation, while we needed ten to fifteen pounds as a country? That's what the D.O.O.D.'s been sending them to the D.A. We're sending them. They're not looking for these and they're looking for what others are sending. Let's go down. The 'NOVARTIS' scandal is not only last. There are these videos that have been released, where Mr. Fruzzis comes out and says: "We have good relations with the political system" or "We do it now. Even though we are making cuts, we are doing well, we are gaining well - this also seems from the evidence - or "We have relations with the government and they are very interested in us", etc. These started a long time ago. With regard to molecular blood control - which in 2006 gave the name of a child who died from the AIDS virus - then we gave the EUR 200 million job to NOVARTIS and to Roche, to do with EUR 50 each examination, when the same companies in Poland were offering EUR 8,5 at the same time. Shouldn't we check this out? Should we not control the PFIZER scandal that he wanted to promote statins? This is where a complaint came in. What happened to that? In your days, he was convicted. Which D.A. drawer is broken up? Three thousand doctors - he says - took a mitigation to promote the medicine. The same attempt was made to do with the Nile's virus, when they said "Our destruction is coming again, My God, buy reagents"! A hundred thousand checks were carried out, five were the positive cases. But we gave the money! We're moving forward. As far as the radio medicine in Patras is concerned, instead of 280 euros, we paid EUR 2.280. It's a mistake, he says. But we paid for it! [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Should anyone not account for why, over the years, the average price of the pacemakers in Greece was EUR 6,500 and the European Union was EUR 1,600? Shouldn't anyone account for the neuro-educators whose average price in the European Union was EUR 300 and in Greece EUR 8 000? The average price of all laparoscopic interventions in Europe was EUR 900, and here it was EUR 6,000-9,000! Wouldn't anyone answer for that? Shouldn't we look for them? Here's the party! In Greece, the average price for'stand' was EUR 2.250, while in the European Union EUR 1,400. Shouldn't we look into this, too? The average price of arthroplastic materials that entered the interventions in Greece was EUR 1,400-1,800, while in the European Union EUR 300. We don't want to look into this! Let's not look at them! He's been robbed in the past! Let's go forth! Is this productive reconstruction going to make Mr. Mitsotakis? With these society's parasites, he wants to rule again tomorrow - the day after tomorrow? In their days and in the days of PASOK these were. This is the way out of the crisis. There is also the DePuy scandal with orthopaedic materials, which was postponed as did SIEMENS because the minutes had not been translated, the case-file had not been translated! That is why, like the 'SIEMENS', we have found it, we do not translate it. Doctors with 8, 10, 12, 15 million euros were found throughout Greece for the orthopedic materials they put in and we postponed the case because we did not have a translator for the Swiss! This is the part of the fairy tale. Let's go later now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u294	Mr. Polakis, how much time do you want? I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u295	I want to talk about CEDEFOP and Henry Dunan.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u296	No, no. The CEDEFOP debate can go by morning. Do you want two, three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u297	Let him go!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u298	Please, Mr. Georgiadis, you don't need a lawyer. Here, Mr Polakis, you will have the floor for no more than four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u299	The CEDEFOP was a mausoleum of corruption and "offshore" of governments. I'm saying it quickly because we have the President. Not to check, not to hear the conversations with Mr Papadimitriou, the timeless Director of the CEDEFOP since 1992, which was the central curator of the black money with all the governments, offering his services to every political leadership, as he has tried to us to do and ate a door? That's why he was fired. Because it was referred irreversibly after Ice Arrow's decision on a case of bioterrorism and C4I since 2004 that made it final until December 2015. That's not what Giannopoulos was doing, why did he have it in hand, why did he make appointments before? That's why we kicked him out and Jannopoulos. Shouldn't we listen to the conversations that George sent so many people? However, Eustathi, the former president of the EMCDDA and Vice-President of the CEDEFOP, wants to keep his own and Kaklamanis and others and does not take Georgiadis who is I.E. Another batch of the twenty-three, I've denounced. It's another batch of them. "Is it ICU, son, and what qualifications do they now have?" "We'll get them, elections are coming!" Or black bags! Shouldn't we talk about the CCCTB - OKANA project that took 10 million to hire a hundred and thirty people over the Lover period, and in eight months they ate them all ten, making them plasterboards in the buildings, the existing ones, the structures of the OKANA? There's a SWEDEN check. It's coming out that five million can't find it. There are no invoices, nothing. And yet, he's still in the D.A. He's still with the D.A.! Second Public Prosecutor who asked for a second finding. It's worse than the second finding. He's still looking for it. Since last year, he's had it. Shouldn't we check the CCIB building, which was purchased by a loan of EUR 17 million? The building was purchased for 11 million and for which a notice came out is to be in three hundred metres from the EICH building, to be incomplete, to have so many floors and so many pseudo roofs. These were out then. That's it. It was a photographic proclamation. By buying 11 million - while objectively valued it had 3 million - and another 5 to 6 million to complete. Should we not see the donation of 1 million euros to the ANTI Group for the strengthening of the 'perfective life' institution? Shouldn't we see that? With excellence, neoliberals have a topic!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u300	What group did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u301	I said EUR 1 million of the CCTBER to HAND1. Shouldn't we see the maintenance of electromechanical equipment at the EMCDDA? 3,182,000 euros were given in a year and a half, 2010-2011. Shouldn't we see the Public Health Control Center in Varis, the finished one? We finished this four more times and gave five million euros? Shouldn't we look at these? And that's what happened now, recently. Shouldn't we watch the thermal cameras? Where's Mr. Cremastino? It's not about his wife. It's a lot older than that. But he said it one day. Let's not see the thermal cameras, the ones that see if you have a high temperature, then the flu. The most expensive thing to get, there's not more than $6,000 to 7,000. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, they were taken at EUR 115,000 a year, i.e. two hundred and six hundred. And then it says that for an operation of twenty-fourths every month, 700,000 euros were given. For three people, six million euros. Shouldn't we see that, too? Lies in the past, dark black, well eaten! Shouldn't we see the direct assignment to SKAI? Shouldn't we see her? For a hundred thousand ads? Private contract. Shouldn't we see that? That's why SKAI takes out the polls of Mr. Mitsotakis' best man Maranzidis. No 15% of SYRIZA, 3% will reach him. Look what the Alfouzo has lost here! Shouldn't we look at these? Shouldn't we see them? Shouldn't we check them? And you dare to show us with your finger? In 1997, it came in, because the limitation is 20 years behind, and not to 'protect' Mr Kurublis who was in welfare. In 2015 and 2016 he doesn't get in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u302	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u303	Because we don't look like one, but best man! Do you understand? We're not the same. We're not rotten! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] When after a couple of twenty years the Greek people retrust you, because you think they have eaten spoon, and they will bring you back to the government, because you go out with the "incanes" in the telepaths and you say "destruction, destruction", check us for the period. You'd do it then. One, two more words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u304	We have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u305	I'm hanging up. I wanted more to say, but I got enough. First,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u306	There's nothing coming out...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u307	Is nothing coming out? Do you know what money this is?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u308	The committee will say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u309	It's not coming out? Do you know what money this is?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u310	If it doesn't come out, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u311	Let's go down. A word on Henry Dunan. Mr Lappas said so. The passage through the Joint Benefit Foundation, the Red Cross, Vegeopoulos, MIG and PIRAIOS was organized, with a synergy of three Ministers. With confidential memorandum signed by Mr.Georgiadis, prompting Martin to cancel the legal appeals to Vegeopoulos by Mr. Loverdos, with the signature put by Mr. Vorides and an amendment which says that the board set up in Henry Dunan - which passed on 19 September 2014 - is not persecuted for the actions, omissions concerning tax, insurance and everything. He 'cleaned' them then that they have no responsibility. Of course, in this "HMITHEA" - because everything is in Greece, everything - he went to the board a dozen days before he took it, the one who had no drachma in it, but went with a check in 115, Mr. Panathitakis, the best man of Mr. Mitsotakis, who was appointed by you, Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u312	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u313	...that you had put him on the board of the public-benefited institution and to ensure the continuity you put him before and at "HMITHEA", which was what was about to go there. Do you dare - and you in particular - tell us about the issue that the Ministry of Health has had since 2012 by decision of Mr. Gregoraku? We have tried and are still trying to make individual contracts and we have been thrown once by the S.H.E., we have taken place again, and that is where we started and stopped us, and now we are doing so, and we have forced an extension. And this money you said is for all 2016 that hadn't gotten a drachma, while you agreed to give him 1.5 million a year. And he's got 700, and he's fine, he's also resting. And he took a lot for what he's asking. It will have a contract - extension by June that we have begun the process, to go with individual contracts, which in the most vague way you are trying to stop. On the other hand, I would like to say apologise, Mr President. The fact that you know what response his mechanism sent to the prosecutor...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u314	I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u315	Come on, a bird told you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u316	Why? Has he given an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u317	CEDEFOP's services and were forwarded from us to the prosecutor for the twenty-three appointments, both of which are directors of his office, his wife and the other was the lady with the...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u318	Please speak to each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u319	Here's the CEDEFOP's pay, and I'm filing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u320	Minister, speak to each other in the plural if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u321	Of course, the "ruspheric paper" said Eugenia Manolid Adonidos. He didn't say Manolidou, that's what the paper was saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u322	We've changed it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u323	Just a word. They went to make papers that the assignment of what was on paper told them to come in, built them the contracts of work and proceeded. They went to make paperwork that was done by a proclamation etc. No proclamation. And they went Saturday. You got some employees there!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u324	Now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u325	Now, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u327	They went Saturday to change the CDC protocols and didn't let them. The scam isn't over! That's why they took off the complaint. And there's more coming for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u328	What's he saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u329	You're done, Minister, please, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u330	Let the Greek people be sure that so much more and so much will come out of the committee. The Greek people should know that for the first time there is a government that does not have it, they cannot threaten it, and that is why they too must be punished and attributed political responsibilities, regardless of whether there is a limitation or not, and of course there will be every opportunity to find the money route through accounts, which at the time there will be no limitation. Some sleeping restless!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u333	Some very quick, telegraphic answers. First of all, we obviously don't look like each other. I didn't know that for the period to be checked, Paulie, I'd have to leave a beard and get the tie out! Obviously, we don't look like each other. But I'm telling you, Minister, to the questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u334	Excuse me, I'm asking for a favor. I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u335	Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u336	Please, Mr. Polakis! Today the vendetta, which has been set up...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u337	It's not a vendetta.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u338	You won't tell me what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u339	I'll be very kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u340	Please, too! The vendetta, which has been set up in other procedures, in this Chamber between you, will not be reproduced in today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u341	It's not a vendetta, an observation I want to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u342	Hey, what's that thing? No remarks! You were talking twenty-three minutes! And you mentioned twenty-six persons in your speech who, if they had become twenty-six personally, would have been Resurrected in here! Do you understand? I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, I want a minute. I'll finish very quickly. In the successive questions of the Minister, 'Not to be checked, not to be checked, not to be checked', the New Democracy says to be checked! That's it! So, why does he ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u344	You've been late for about 20 years!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u345	Well, we'll see what's coming out! On the contrary, in our question now, to check what Mr Kurublis said earlier - if you did not understand - that on 20 August 2015 Mr Caronne checked the price report, which was never the case, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Mr Polakis, then, I turn to what Mr Kourublis said, which in fact sends Mr Xanthos to prison, not to be controlled?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u346	What do you think? It's a price sheet. Are you serious? Mercy! Stop lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u347	He didn't come out. The paper was released in December.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u348	The price sheet has taken it off by government and it has been implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u349	Mr. President, will you protect me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u350	Mercy! Respect the House a little!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u351	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u352	Please, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u353	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u354	Mr. President, please. I ask SYRIZA's colleagues. Mr. Kurublis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u355	Mr Georgiadis, you have taken the floor to refer to matters raised by Mr Polakis. You will not shut down on the part of the New Democracy for what has been mentioned here. Please, Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u356	I never said I knew what the agency's answer was. Now I hear there is. I heard you on Mr. Liatsu's show...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Georgiadis, why didn't you file a petition?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u358	You told me to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u359	You said on Mr. Liatsu's show...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u360	Please, it's not a TV panel in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u361	If you're ready, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u362	But you're referring to a show! Let go of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u363	I would therefore say that on Mr Liatsou's programme Mr Paulakis said that I asked the Agency to check these twenty-three. And I ask him, did the Agency answer? If he answers, testify! Now he comes in and answers that the agency responded, but they went in, if I understood correctly, to change the paperwork. You haven't taken them to the D.A. yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u364	Yeah, we took them, but it was Riku and they were slow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u365	You have told us here seven times that the prosecutors control what we have denounced, but they do not denounce what you have denounced. So, to understand it, I, Adonis Georgiadis, control the justice of SYRIZA Government? As far as the latter is concerned. You mentioned two names, Mr. Maniadakis and Mr. Mania. Mr. Maniadakis was indeed my partner at the Ministry of Health. Everything else you've said is false. But Mr. Manias, who I did not have the honour of knowing him, was an advisor to Mrs. Jackie at the Ministry of Industry and Government SYRIZA. I don't understand. What do you have with Mr. Mania now? Now "Do you give" Kouroublis the Blonde and Paulakis the Jack? Is that what we're gonna do in here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u366	That's not a phrase! Do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u367	So - I return to the question - if Mr Xanthos insists that he has no problem with the 2015 price report, instead of shouting, getting up with courage and saying to check in 2015 and then he will appear to have nothing to fear. But shouting, but voting against control over your days...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u368	You're closed, Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u369	...it doesn't take you! We are not the same at all, not at all, because we have reduced expenditure and you have increased expenditure. Everything else is for the show.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u370	You're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u371	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u372	Come on...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u373	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u374	Mr. President, excuse me. Did you hear him? To withdraw now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u375	There was nothing in the Minutes, nor did we hear anything about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u377	The Minister's talking next.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u378	Just thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u379	Mr. Polakis, please. No second. Mr. Blonde, either way, he talks later. If you want anything on the substance, the Minister will say so in any case. I would very much ask that the procedure be kept. It can't go on like this. You understand that. I would make the appeal - and I told you, Minister, and you were Minister on various occasions - not to speak like that. You can't talk and talk in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u380	What did I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u381	You understand very well what I mean. It's not possible to talk to the unit and like we're in a panel or a square. It is incomprehensible about the level of the Chamber. Please very much. He's not honoring any of us. [[Applause]] Mr. Megamystakas has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking last of the speakers, I have had the privilege of listening to most people, if not all. So what you want to check was heard in this Chamber. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Today we are discussing issues relating to the health system, a system that has open wounds, in which, unfortunately, we still continue to throw salt instead of trying to heal them. There are all the things that Mr Paulakis has said. I don't want to mention it again. There are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u383	A little quiet, please, to the room.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u384	What we should do today, as the Members of the New Democracy and you want this committee of inquiry to be done, is to have a consultation and put it in 1996, which you do not mind - as long as you were clear, there is no problem - and in 2015 and 2016, so that by your actions you can prove and not leave a single trace of suspicion about what you are doing. I don't know what you're afraid of and you don't. Yeah, you're not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u385	Don't you understand why we don't put it on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u386	I don't understand why you don't. You should put it on. As long as you're clean, you're afraid of nothing. Why wouldn't you? Why take a step to make you an opposition? And now I am addressing the New Democracy. As long as you're in favour of controlling everything that's happened, why did you let years pass and you didn't check it out? Didn't you know they existed? Therefore, or some dirt you are hiding or were unable to control what is happening in a system - and the PASOK, of course, it was not just the New Democracy at that time - which you have created, a system which, unfortunately, strengthened corruption, the smuggling of public money, all that you now support and let it be understood that the current coexistence is doing. You are therefore unjustified for what you have not done. I agree with you to enter both in 1996 and in 2015 and in 2016 and let the responsibilities be omitted. But let's see. Because I really don't think the money will be returned, as Mr. Kammenos said. The Memorandum of Inquiry has done nothing. In the case of loans from parties and channels, nothing has happened. We heard what we read in the papers. What we all knew, we heard the same thing within the committees. Now you're hoping you'll get the stolen back, just like you got the compensation? I hope you can get the stolen back. But my view is that none of this will happen. The only objective to be served by the committee is to have the impression: who ate most, what has happened in your years and what has not been done now, because we do not know what is happening now, because these two years are not going to go into government within the committee of inquiry. This raises doubts to all Greeks. And it's a good thing the Opposition's doing, and it's shouting. How do you want to support it while there are dark points? Why can't there be a consensus? It's been three years. It is not enough to explain Mr Polakis, who said 'we are not the same'. Prove it. Show it with your actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u387	Prove what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u388	Prove you're not the same, sir. Prove it by exam. Make it more flexible. I don't understand the problem. I'm in favour of it. There's no reason to leave it at night and there's no reason to be shadows. Unless you're afraid of something else. We see that in this Chamber with all this debate there is a great 'bazaar' for the consequences and political costs that will be incurred by some in this great party, political trick that has been set up over the years. As the Central Association, we will not support either proposal or the other, as we want to have equal distances from the two poles. Our position will be purely'residences'. What we want is for there to be consultation between everyone. We are all asking for the same thing in this Chamber with a slight discrepancy. There should be cooperation, we should show the way in the world, the Greeks, who are waiting for a solution and not just to account for political responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr. Megamoustakas. Mr Spyridon Dannelis has the floor from Potami for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u390	Mr President, I have asked for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u391	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u392	You weren't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u393	I've been here for six hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u394	There's been four references to my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u395	There have been reports of too many, too many faces. That is what Mr Voutsis said earlier. If they were all asking for the reason, we'd have a resurrection here. Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr President. After all, the left always said the staff was political. They're involved. The limits are indiscreet. Ladies and gentlemen, defence and health, the two sectors, which have cost infinitely cheap loan and which are still burdening the hump of Greek taxpayers disproportionately in relation to their return. These are the two areas that are offered over time for the big parties. Some of them got rich. Some have gained influence. Others made careers. A lot more just licked some bone. The fact is that the taxpayers pay him the bill and the indifference of the political system and the politicians have arrested it. "Everything in light" says today, the government with its proposal for an examination of health. We agree. And it is your fault, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that you refuse to extend the investigation for the years 1996 and 2015 to 2017. You give rights, showing this unexplained "sympathy", overlooking the "clean sky lightnings does not fear". Of course, major and genuine health scandals are not a case of vendetta, as Mr Paulakis and Mr Georgiadis are dealing with it, as we have just seen and rightly insulted both of them by the President of Parliament. Of course, these scandals are not dealt with either with reasonable and practical telexes or, of course, with the logic of the keyhole, as we have just seen. We're too far from reality. Despite the election majorities of the full reform of the National Health System, Minister, unfortunately, the government is pursuing the same deadlock and non-visional policy as the previous ones. Unfortunately, the scriptures do not differ much from those of the previous ones. I am referring to the appointments of those who continue, to the extensions of all kinds of contracts and to the continuation of a party domination in the ERC, while dignity continues to be an unknown term. In fact, he stated that hospital governors are political and that he has the right to choose his associates while overcoming all the previous, notwithstanding the quality of his work. I'm not saying there are no worthy commanders, but how many of them really have the pearls to manage such a difficult case at such a strange time? So somehow we have also come to see for your day, unfortunately, the positions of governors occupying executives purely from party tanks. Ladies and gentlemen, the constant tactics of the Greek household is to save'something for the difficult time', as it is said. The difficult time is no longer the time when medical services will be required. And what does that mean? That there is no trust in the health system, since citizens know that they have to feed it and with the bag beyond their taxes. But beyond the fair suspicion of citizens, official evidence confirms that health expenditure in our country is far from rewarding. In the first decade of 2000, we more than tripled the per capita amount of pharmaceutical expenditure to just 40% in the European Union as a whole of twenty-seven. Greece at some point has come to spend more on health than the Scandinavian countries. In addition, we had most doctors per inhabitant from any other OECD country, with 6.1 doctors per thousand inhabitants in 2009, almost twice the average, which was 3.1 of the OECD. However, at the same time, ten positions have been placed on the life expectancy of the citizens. How does that explain? Evidently, the surpluses from the growth of health expenditure came into the pockets of some. There are health scandals, ladies and gentlemen. We know that. The Greek people know that. Questions remain, however: Is the solution to the timeless problem of corruption to be solved in health or will the curse of the multiple findings and the end-of-bad examinations be resurfaced? Does society have the mental resources to watch another trial committee reality show, without, however, a final winner? Do we all have the mental reserves to fight for zero understanding, even for obvious? Because the end of the project is well known and I wish to be disproved this time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for one and a half minutes, since I am the last of the speakers. The ending of the project is well known - as I said - and this time, for example, may I be strengthened by a number of newspaper titles, poor assumptions that are taking place in the competent court and the issue is taken over as one more skeleton in the wardrobe of the political system. What remains and is burdened with all of us is an extra dose of unreliability, which of course brings about the not so unfair suspicion of society. Only institutional armour, ladies and gentlemen, transparency and control can hamper the eternal European of scandals. But all three need to be at the same time, of course, the political will. Since 2004, the Health and Social Solidarity Counsel has been operating under the independent authority of the Citizens' Counsellor. The 'blank', however, didn't even notice it. Let's move one step further. And this step is nothing but the constitutional review, which we remembered a few days ago, the change of Article 86 of the Constitution on the responsibility of ministers. For us on the river this is a position of principle. In addition, we do not believe that they are either public prosecutors or inquisitives and are inappropriately invited to play this glorious role at every time and, above all, to serve the agenda of the current government majority. It has been understood that this government, unfortunately, also enjoys the management of symbols. Yesterday, if we saw a resurrection of symbols! However, there are times when politicians must stop swinging symbols and dealing with the substance of things. Only in this way will we stop throwing water into the mill of speeches, speeches of extremist and antisystemic forces rubbing their hands whenever we are unable to reach a tangible and concrete result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, Mr. Spyridon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u399	Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for two minutes on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. There are two reports concerning me and I want to make this comment in the Greek Parliament. As far as the reports by a member of the government are concerned, I have said a year ago in this Chamber - you presided over - that there is no way I can open a dialogue with him, only in one case, when the House will exercise its judicial powers in this case. I am not going to talk to him about any other matter. It is out of politics that his behaviors and his words are. When the time comes for the judiciary, that's where he'll find me in front of him. In the second, however, another Minister, Mr Kourublis, has taken the floor and I really want to clarify what I have not explained in this House. I have said this on many occasions out of halloween, but I have not had the opportunity here. I'm given the chance today. So he said the Minister, Mr. Kourublis, "if you have anything to tell me about the non-invoicing of drugs in 2015, tell the prosecutor." But I have made two reports, Mr President, to Mrs Ryku, to the prosecutors of corruption, that is, his legal obligation to invoice in 2015 and his illegality not to invoice. And secondly, in these reports, they are multipages, posted, I have recorded "NOVARTIS' drugs", how much it is in my day and how many times they have been underestimated - and they have been underestimated all and expensive and cheap - and how much on the SYRIZA Government and ANEL its most expensive medicines have been reviewed, they have been priced upwards. These are recorded, recorded outside of Athens, now heard and in the committee of inquiry we will be given the opportunity to be very specific. I close with this thought. When you say that the aa, b, c, d, and there you are generous in saying things and many things, it is absolutely inconceivable, Mr President, and it shows fear and guilt to refuse to discuss in the committee of inquiry what happens to you that you have done and that you yourself have confessed to it today. Mr. Kurublis said that someone from the troika told him to illegally and illegally. This is a felony conspiracy, Mr President. When you have that kind of responsibility, you have to be very careful when talking about those who have founded in the opposite direction and never supported them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers of Economy and Development, Economic, Administrative Reconstruction and the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Finance have now tabled a draft law: "N.P.I. ‘National Accreditation System’ and other provisions. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Minister, the party's parliamentary group will be chaired by the President Potami, Mr Theodorakis, and you will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u402	In the weekend I was in the Dodecanese and met with doctors who had been with the "Open Agalia" in Nisseros and Tilos. Don't tell you the problems they have faced, or you'll be ashamed. There is no oncology throughout the whole South Aegean. In Rhodes, nurses are trying to cover each one of them from two clinics. There's no pediatrician in Kos. Lacks also exist in Kastelorizo, there are deficiencies higher in Samothraki, where Easter will not be a newspaper doctor. Last summer, seventeen small islands in the Aegean had left without an agricultural doctor. It is also the situation in mainland Greece. That sucks! Most health centers have shortcomings, do not have cardiologists, do not have pediatricians. Of course, there is also the suffering of the EKAB. Either he doesn't have cars or he doesn't have any staff. One of the two. And in Kefalonia, the ambulance, as you were told recently, I imagine, in a post, had no gasoline for a month. We also heard the response of EKAV to the death of the man in Halkidiki, the thirty-eighteen-year-old: "We have ambulances, but we only have drivers for half the shifts, and we did not catch up with him." That's the situation today. That, of course, was the situation yesterday. The country of waste, the country of mismanagement and the party state. It makes everything difficult for the citizens and does it, of course, all the more expensive. Health for us is important, it is not 'exceeding'. But let me make a reference to an issue of topicality, to insist that the state of waste is here and is in many areas. The highways that SYRIZA has been happy to launch these days - once fought them, but that is not the present - were costed as you know with 1.7 billion and cost us 6 billion, with delays from two to seven years and with many dead all these years. Ways, then, lined up with gold. Why did we go to six billion? Do we have a little time between the fairs, talk about why we went to six billion? What was it? Who took the extra money? Same thing in guns. Politicians order mainly on the basis of friendships but also the percentages of hatred. Of course, we have also discussed this at the previous sitting of the House, and we will have the opportunity to discuss it in the pre-review committee for the Papantoniou period. But this is the Greece of conservativeism and populism. Big words, promises from behind incompetence, remorse and gains for the outdated of every power, with a great loser of the citizen. Today, we are above his bed, we have made the diagnosis, and suddenly we leave him symptom and go out in the hallway to fight for what has not happened or rather for what has not happened in the past few years. We should do this, but be careful not to lose the patient. Because ladies and gentlemen, we are afraid that the examinations, whatever we do, will not give a solution to the problem of the country. The point is to change minds, change political system, separate the public from the parties, give the praisers a role, rule the people of work, not 'hobbies', not party yearbooks. During the crisis eighteen thousand doctors left abroad and in 2015 five hundred doctors left for work and five hundred for specialty. At the same time, the ESS is kneeling from a lack of personnel, mainly nursing and medical. Two years ago, Mr. Tsipras, on the stepways of the Ministry of Health, had promised four and a half thousand recruitments to the ESS.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u403	Six hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u404	Six two hundred had promised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u405	Six hundred have been done so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u406	I'll tell you what has happened so far. We must therefore agree that four and a half thousand recruits had been promised by Mr. Tsipras on the steps of the Ministry of Health. He hired seven hundred from a proclamation made by the previous government. The hospital staff for two years...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u407	What call was that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u408	Wait a minute, Minister. Questions at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u409	Minister, then you'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u410	When you were talking, I had a lot of questions, but I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u411	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u412	But if you're in the mood to have a dialogue, we're going to end it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u413	Go on, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u414	The staff - take care - of hospitals, during Mr Tsipras' two-year period, decreased by seven and a half thousand people. At the same time, however, you received two and a half thousand contractors through these European programmes. We are - and I do not know whether Mr Paulakis reads differently the European elements - the country with the least nursing staff and the only ones we continue to cover the gaps with exclusive private nurses, such as the Eastern system, not in the Turkish sirials, but in the Greek hospitals. The government's allegations of increasing funding to hospitals by 300 million in 2016 have nothing to do with reality, because according to the 2016 budget we provided EUR 1.3 billion, that is, only EUR 12 million more than in 2015. The results are, however, what we see. They're intensified, they're ranched in the hallways, and they're derelict equipment. It's a grim landscape, old and repetitive. And every year there are hundreds of deaths associated with infections in hospitals, a number which may be three times the average in Europe. The health problem used to be a lot of money and a few results. Today is little money and wrong priorities or, to say otherwise, all these years we have had a health with many mistakes, many scandals and a society that has been defeated here too. In 1990, our country was the fourth in Europe to life expectancy and in 2009 it had fallen to the fourteenth place. In those years we increased staff, increased the pharmaceutical expenditure, increased everyone's health money, but we dropped ten places in life expectancy, because the issue of health is not how much money you spend, but mainly where you spend it and who decides on that money. Pharmaceutical expenditure - to go through these controversial committees of inquiry - in a decade has indeed increased by 400%, from EUR 1 billion in 2000 to EUR 5.1 billion in 2009. We had the third highest per capita drug expenditure in the OECD and the first in Europe. The revelations also caused laughing and crying. You know, for the preparations that someone paid in France and Germany EUR 100, this was from EUR 300 to EUR 3 000. We had in proportion most CT and magnetic tomographers than France, Germany, Denmark, the Scandinavian countries, in private hands most and without an elementary geographical distribution. There's a lot of lost money in health, and there's a lot of people involved. Medical conferences near commercial malls and exotic tourist resorts. At the same time, our country in those years, but even today, has its capitals in a pitiful competition: we are the first country in Europe in Cesarean areas. Today 57% of births are with a caesarean incision, when the normal world term is close to 20%. In the decades, in other words, some of the great 'parties' were sore, from everywhere, the measure was lost, and health was flooded by 'piranhas' and 'invertebrates'. And, of course, next to the corrupt, devastated heroes, poorly paid doctors and nurses finally kept a living health system. Today, however, decayed are struggling with fewer means to cope with an increasing volume of incidents. It's a little old, but I'm afraid we still have to deal with the video published in the editors' Newspaper, with hospital employees throwing drugs in the sewer. Pharmaceuticals in the trash to constantly make new orders. Two billion in the 'black hole' of pharmaceutical expenditure. The title was "parallel exports" or - notice - "the coupon on the insurance fund of Greece and the medicine with its box abroad". We paid, as the people who know health well can say, literally the drugs of the North, especially the East. We must therefore - and perhaps many have realised this - change everything in health, dare to move forward in the selection of unit governors on the basis of ASP criteria. It is true that you have ceased to appoint only failed states, as they did in the years of PASOK and New Democracy. But we have too many steps to take if we do not want to continue with remulsions and health scandals. I shall make a few suggestions. Each citizen must have his medical medicine computer record. There must finally be - and here we need a great deal of courage from all the Members - a health and hospital charter. There can be no counties with three relics of hospitals, so that people come to the capital to find medical, as if we were playing in the colored version of "Bavroyaluro". We need to assess the staff at hospitals, based on internationally applicable evaluation protocols. The State must be aware that the citizen is aware of what we order, who is ordered, who is consuming it. All electronics to be all comparable, medicines, materials, consumables. Of course we must strengthen the Greek pharmaceutical industry, while at the same time reducing the insurance pockets. The generic products, which are, as a rule, products of national industries, in Europe - take care of them! - they represent 50% of the market in Greece is still 22% of the market. Greeks lose because generosity is about half price, but Greek industries lose for the benefit of the multinationals. The government's talking about resolution. But she keeps making her own records on prescribing. We're over-prescribing, we're over-consuming. Both are harmful to the pocket and health. Of course, the 'first time left' also made a small miracle. We've got an increase in the patient's financial participation. Ladies and gentlemen, the political system did not want and does not want to make areas of health. The ability and visionaries were absent. I can only mention on Friday, Agnes. The compromised and the trolleymen of interests have longed. No one wanted and doesn't want, apparently, to clash with the established health interests. Any small efforts by some ministers have been drowned by the pressures of interest. Everyone's talking about the murder, but nobody saw the killer. In relation to the specific questions of the committees of inquiry, I would like to say two things. The immunity and waste in the administration of Henry Dunan should have been perceived by both the Ministry and the political system, but I fear that they were covered by all the free hospitalization of political and some journalists. The CEDEFOP managed millions of millions of dollars without any control anywhere, neither commissions nor expenditure. However, the government today, and at the last minute, goes on to set up a national central health supply authority, which we have proposed from our establishment and something that should have been done since the first day, if it wanted to solve with abscesses in health. So the investigation must go ahead. And for us, it must proceed without time restrictions. Let me say that Mr Kourublis, who seems to separate you, is the one who rather unites this story. What do I mean? He was the Secretary General of the Ministry of Health over PASOK for many years and was the first Minister of Health at SYRIZA - ANEL. Date of birth: 1993-2016. It's the years we have to look. Twenty-three years of a repetitive crime. We, which do not have any government involvement, will also be fighting here, as in the field of armaments, as in the case of large projects, for justice to be done. I hope that there will also be other bold ones and that this committee of inquiry will not be turned into a arena for communication party show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr Theodorakis, the President of the River Parliamentary Group. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u416	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this debate on the establishment of a committee of inquiry into long-term corruption and health scandals has caused widespread political irritation. It is also quite obvious that political aggression and political vulnerability - let me say - are directly proportional to the political guilt and the degree of involvement of people, officials, political spaces in this history. With a lot of hypocrisy, the two main political forces that have ruled the country over the last thirty - forty years today say 'all in light'. It is too late, ladies and gentlemen, to be very thoughtful, very retrospective, after a celebration, that is, when the party ended. That is why the approach is of no political value. And the party, ladies and gentlemen, the world-famous party - the time-consuming - in the health sector has a political name. The political name is ‘PASOK and New Democracy’. That is quite clear. And political responsibility for the phenomena of this period is exclusively yours. What we are going to discuss is the possible criminal responsibilities, state officials and natural political persons. This will be investigated by the committee of inquiry. We, ladies and gentlemen, took this political initiative and did not go to court, criminalising political confrontation, as others did. We have taken a political initiative in order not to prove the well-documented political guilt of these political forces and their officials over time, but above all to finalise the system, to give a signal to society that there is no daily society, that there is no cover-up, that this government has no reason to give a sense of immunity to unacceptable behaviour of the past. The impact of this period of immunity has been fully explained, lack of control mechanisms, inducer of demand, waste, corruption, transaction with interests and natural exploitation of people, the sick. Its impact has been estimated even on economic terms. We will therefore make this effort to shield the system institutionally, to identify the mechanisms that could interfere with legislation, to influence political choices, to serve specific interests. So it is not hard to use corruption, obviously, nor do we care about Scandalology. We are interested in the policy measures to convince the citizens that this period has been definitively closed, that there are institutions and mechanisms which are guaranteed by now and beyond the good management of the few, obviously human and material resources that our country has at present. And we are having this debate because we are interested in moralizing the health system. This is where the New Democracy colleagues are impressed by this neo-liberalism. We introduced this term into the political debate. We have been talking for the first time about the time-conversions and the pathogens of the system and the need to moralize it, precisely to give the signal that there is no continuity and that there is no immunity. Ethicsism is therefore an element of a broader political project that says "a universal coverage of citizens", which says "priority in public care", "reorganisation of the ESS focusing on primary care", "reinsurance in the field of supplies and medicine", and above all "respect for people's rights and dignity". This is the political project which we are serving and which is an organic element of this intervention. With this investigation, we must all - and I hope we show maturity after the current tension - the procedures of the committee of inquiry, protect society from a climate of collective indictment of everything, particularly health workers, doctors, other health professionals, workers to the investigating bodies. Because, obviously, the majority of both workers in the health system and workers in all other bodies have done their work with dignity and honesty, even though their administrations and political heads have turned them into mechanisms of customer management, interdependent with interests and illegal enrichment of specific persons. That is what you have done, ladies and gentlemen. You made public care part of your party and client state. And we know very well how the appointments were made, how the appointments made by the governors were, how the commissions were awarded, how private contractors, whom, as Mr Paulakis said earlier, are trying to get away from public hospitals by limiting or eliminating a pocket of renowned lawlessness and corruption. I therefore recommend, at this stage of restraint, low tones and, above all, no lions! Your own political officers have been caught with the sprout on the back. Your commanders have been caught bribing. It was your administrations, under the nose of which, for twenty years, the pheasyness of CEDEFOP was evolving and knows all the health community and all those attending Jerusalem. Your advisers - typical or informal, I do not know - have been caught lying, stating that they are not related to price notes and invoicing, but there are mail that they exchange with the EOF and the Price Commission and they intercede and cook. So let us keep tons low, and let everyone help from their position, and I hope from a point of view of guilt in this case. Obviously, we are not having the debate on health scandals to incriminate the public health system, as has been done repeatedly in the past and to justify cuts and austerity in the health sector. I would remind you that before every intervention that was mutilated for the public health system, there has always been a coordinated attack on political persons and, above all, a medium-sized establishment, which has highlighted the known diseases and the known illegalities that have existed for years in the health system, precisely in order to provide the justification for this intervention. So scandals have political responsibility, but they have natural and moral perpetrators and we will investigate them. Because, in fact, you are asking us what we have done in this period and what institutional areas we have done, you will allow me to list some of you, of course, which we have said, but the means, with which we have cut the umbilical cord with adjacent mechanisms that are revealed, never bother to present them. Instead, they are striving for any real problem and real bad event that exists today in the health system, as there are, of course, in all health systems in the world. Firstly, from the day before yesterday there is a public consultation of a new procurement law in the logic of centralisation, with the creation of a new upgraded Central Health Procurement Authority. I believe that it will be an intervention - a breakthrough in the resolution of this field. Secondly, since yesterday there is also a new law in public consultation, and this is about primary health care. And this is an intervention that enhances the rational use of resources, family care, substantiated medicine, control of provocative demand, proper prescribing. We have said that in the crisis of health systems, particularly in the process of poorening societies, the answer is a public health system focusing on primary care. We presented the details of this law for two hours yesterday. But from what I learned, the "objective" media only showed was a question about the delay of the EMCDDA to pick up a patient. Third, O.R. List. It has already been completed in about a third of hospitals. It is a transparency intervention that creates conditions to reverse the established logic that every citizen may bypass, because of the relationship and the transaction he has developed with the doctor, the waiting lists and be "preferred" for surgery, not on the basis of his needs and clinical status, but precisely on the basis of this transaction. Fourthly, the protection of patients' rights in public hospitals. It is also an important intervention that will enable the citizen not to feel alone, unprotected and helpless within the public health system, but that there is an institutionalised mechanism that can seek information and, above all, denounce any unequal or undefeased treatment. Fifth, upgrade of e-government. Mr Mitsotakis told us - you do not properly inform your President, you put him and he says things that are out of reality - about e-government that we have let her almost collapse. On the contrary, we have put in prescription rules, especially for diagnostics, and we constantly incorporate - we have reached twenty-five therapeutic categories - diagnostic and therapeutic protocols, to make a substantial control of the very high demand and the increase in the volume of prescriptions. Mr Mitsotakis also said that primary health care is falling, one day after the announcement of a new structured plan, which will reshape the health system as a whole. Have they told him that the problematic, distorting, unconnected to the rest of the public health system primary health care in the urban centres that existed until 2014 was permanently destabilised by Mr. Georgiadis, who led to the mass exit of the three thousand doctors’ health system? Rehabilitation from private contractors. This is also an institutional section. Change in pharmaceutical policy. What we have started, and now that the agreement is closed, we will be able to legislate very shortly after Easter, are two very critical interventions covering two very serious deficits in the field of pharmaceutical policy, which have contributed to this expenditure explosion. Firstly, the creation of a mechanism for the first time in the country of assessment of health technology, assessment of medicinal innovation, so that medicinal products that will actually enter and move in the country will have certain clinical effectiveness and therapeutic added value. Already in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we will shortly proceed to the introduction of HTA criteria - this is the evaluation mechanism - and, slowly, by the end of the year, as we have committed, this mechanism will be completed. This is huge drug reform. The second is that we shield and upgrade the functioning of the EEAS Trading Committee, which you recommended in previous laws, but it has never worked and which has not yet completed the outcome of an excellent negotiation with much better terms of hepatitis C medicinal products, which will allow us to put multiple chronic hepatitis C patients on therapy, thereby protecting public health. The process is over. We had some issues with the principle of privacy, I don't want to comment on that. Publication necessarily on the EOF website and on the websites of all the pharmaceutical companies of their financial transactions with doctors and especially the scientific medical companies, which they organise in medical conferences. This is also a step in transparency and regulation in this chaotic landscape, which we know very well that it contributes to the provocative demand and the approval of expenditure. Promoting rules and control clinical studies, in particular for non-interventional clinical studies, which we also know very well that it was a mechanism for entering the health system and the pharmaceutical market in products whose clinical effectiveness has not always been established. Repeal of the Ministry's Prices Committee, which was "cooking" by the ministerial offices and advisers of the Ministers, the final invoicing provisions. The EOF is the competent body, which at the moment, because we are also talking about people, at its wheel, is an excellent professor of pharmacology, who has not dared any of the whole drug market to say a word about its integrity, its scientific adequacy and its honesty. And the whole industry recognises that these three price cards, which have come out of this government, have come out of transparency and not debates under the table.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u417	Minister, how much longer will you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u418	I'm gonna need a little more, not too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u419	We hope not too much, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u420	That can be said another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u421	No, because that's the political answer, not the launching of charges. The political response to corruption is this type of institutional change and intervention. So Mr. Georgiadis told us that there were many findings of the CEDEFOP. We're happy! Did anyone go to the D.A.? We went to the first conclusion, with our own political intervention. All the previous findings of CEDEFOP were stuck, because some of the hard mechanisms kept the leading members of the political system hostages. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And, of course, we put CCIBO in public accounting - although this has created some inelasticities, which we need to see again - because CCIBO is really a critical public health body in the country, it has excellent scientific potential, which offers health protection to the citizens and which intervenes when an epidemic is being developed. In particular, we have succeeded in this difficult period in which we operated the refugee crisis, despite the Cassandra on health bombs, there is no serious public health problem. Measures for the briefcase. For the first time, a state body, a sanitary region, obviously with the support of the Ministry, opens up a public debate and records the causes, behaviours, consequences and, above all, seeks prevention and repression measures that will actively address this phenomenon, which insults both the dignity of the public health system and the dignity of the medical body, but above all the dignity of the citizens. There is, of course, a serious preparation in cooperation with the OECD for a national strategic plan to deal with corruption. The Ministry of Health is "pilot" Ministry in the creation of an internal control mechanism, which will operate in the next few months, and we will actually put mechanisms for systematic monitoring of these phenomena and for immediate intervention. And because there was talk of the governors, and the Chief of Officership spoke about the governors and someone said that there are twenty-five - he says - Governors, who have - said that Mr. Economou - evidence that it is of SYRIZA, I would like to say that the hundreds of forty governors, who gugullarized them all, have found twenty-five to have something to do with SYRIZA. This means decommissioning the hospital administration. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] These governors did not choose them by Xanthos and Paulakis, but they were chosen or offered - two people for each post - a five-member committee, in which he participated as Vice-Chairman of the ASP, a representative of the academic community with experience in the management of health services, the president of the CSY Institutions and a private sector representative, as foreseen by the law. So this committee has come to proposals and we have chosen governors, of which 75% have postgraduate and doctoral qualifications related to management and health finances. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In addition, two thirds of them are people who are already working in the public health system, and part of them in public administration, without additional and budgetary burdens on the administrative costs of the system. They are people who are, firstly, honest, secondly, adequate and relevant to the subject, and thirdly, who are committed to public care and not to the conditions of free competition in the public and private sectors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u422	If you're kind enough, you're short, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u423	I shall conclude, Mr President. So because we are talking about scandals and because there was a report, I think that the biggest scandal was not so much what we have been discussing all day. The biggest health scandal, ladies and gentlemen, was that the previous governments left the insecure citizens uncovered by health care. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] At the time when health poverty was happening, while the European Union, the international organisations such as the World Health Organisation, were ringing the bell that the health indicators of the population start and have a negative time, you did nothing. You have made two joint ministerial decisions, which have remained inactive. So we, with L.4368, managed to solve a huge social problem, cover over two and a half million people in an equal and free way in the public health system, for their examinations, for their follow-up, for their hospitality, for their surgery, for their exact treatments. We have also made sure that one third of them are entitled to an income-based contribution by the Ministry of Labour to the medical expense. Seven hundred sixty thousand citizens, one third of uninsured people have zero participation in pharmaceutical expenditure and do not pay one euro per prescription. This is measurable, relief intervention during the crisis, during the memorandum and during the austerity measures! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I shall end, Mr President, and apologise for the extensive intervention. Since, as you're telling us, it's all so angelically made up, why don't you accept that your own period will be checked? Paul answered before, I reply too. We, ladies and gentlemen, have taken the initiative to check this party in the field of health, because we have nothing to do with this party, and because our relationship with health, ladies and gentlemen, did not arise when we joined ministers. We have a route of racing, commitment to public care and participation in social solidarity. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We have a good witness outside. The people of the public health system know us. We are known by the sanitaries and at this time they really feel that with this political leadership they can hope for better days for the health system. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And because we obviously have no intention of doing you the favor of self-incrimination and of contributing to generalised paralytics and finally making sense that everyone is the same, so we are not the same and people know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. As you can see, we have shown a relative tolerance because it concerns the relevant Minister in the field that we are discussing today. We've shown a lot of other tolerance today. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Independence of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotini Genomes has the floor. Just a moment, Madam President, please calm down the Chamber and speak immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u425	I'm waiting. A line was given for 'Get up'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u426	Please be quiet in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u427	Some cannot stand criticism. It's a difficult criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u428	Your Honor, you can start anytime.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for each Memorandum the government has an examination. For every hard, anti-linguistic measure, it has countermeasures: Scandalology. But you won't make it this time, Mr. Tsipras. You will not turn the interest of the Greek people or ours elsewhere. Our interest remains in the great problems of everyday life. This distraction won't work. Do you know what he's betraying? It betrays guilt, fear, despair and panic. You say to the Greek people today: I admit I did not toss the two previous memos, as I promised. My delusion has led to me loading two more unjust, worse memos on the back of the Greek people. I admit that I have failed to give a basic salary of EUR 751, a third pension, to keep taxfree and to take it to EUR 12 000 on the basis of the commitments of the famous programme in Thessaloniki. Do you remember that at all, or have you completely forgotten? You say, I failed to abolish HISBIA. My delusion has resulted in a dramatic decline in the income of employees and pensioners. I admit that I have even cut over 100 thousand pensioners. Everything, however, I have a strong countermeasure: I will impoverish the middle class. In fact, you are telling us today, Mr Tsipras: I am bringing SYRIZA's second memorandum - ANEL with new measures of EUR 3.6 billion, not a single euro, but I will save what is left of my honour, chasing and revealing the strife and corruption of others. It is obvious that the examination is the last line of defence of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and of the Prime Minister himself, a lost retardation battle. We, ladies and gentlemen, have so far voted on all the proposals for committees of inquiry, because we have a position of principle, which says 'transparency for everyone and everywhere'. And we have nothing to hide and fear. Everything! That's as far as it goes! Because Mr. Tsipras is on his way. It suggests one exam on each other for others and systematically excludes himself from any control. Afraid of control. You are afraid, Mr Tsipras, to discuss what you have done with Mr Varoufakis. You are afraid of discussing the 86 billion with which you have charged the Greek economy. You're afraid of uncomfortable memoirs being discussed. You fear that the 20 billion lost by public and insurance funds will be discussed by the unnecessarily recapitalisation of the banks. That is why you refuse to discuss, as we propose. And we are proposing to discuss the economic path since we entered the euro in 2001 until now, to see what happened to this place and what went wrong. Why? To cover the responsibilities of the two destructive governments after the Migration: yours and the New Democracy in 2004-2009. Do as many committees of inquiry as you like with the marginal majority, which you have with the Independent Greeks. But at the end of this sad route you will not be able to avoid answering the crucial question: why do you deny to the Committee of Inquiry the time we have entered the euro so far? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Really, what kind of commitments have you made and are forbidden to refer to the period 2004-2009? You are entitled to an answer, ladies and gentlemen, to SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. And above all, you are due to SYRIZA. And you owe this answer, not only to us, but mainly to the Greek people and to the world of the Left, who believed you and had expectations and hopes for you. And today, Mr Tsipras, you refuse to discuss what has happened in recent years from your Government with specific acts and omissions of your officials, who have damaged the public and the citizens. You can't stand it. As far as you are concerned, cover up, deny transparency and accountability. That's the raw truth! Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to return to the great issue of Malta's agreement, because after seven months of extortion, they have surrendered unconditionally. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government has deep responsibilities for this slogan of defeat that brings to the Greek people. He consciously delayed evaluation and caused uncertainty and insecurity with a decisive impact on the real economy. The recession has returned, unemployment is high, banks' deposits are falling, red loans are increasing and, of course, due backwards are also increasing. The government's ideologies and inability prevented or delayed major reforms without budgetary costs, so that the country could find itself in a less positive negotiating position. These developments have greatly increased the account that the Greek people have to pay today. Let's not forget that the reduction of duty-free and the reduction of personal pension differences were not at the negotiating table in October and November 2016. New measures of EUR 3.6 billion have been accepted. They left the arrangements for the debt in the ultimate future. Alas, if you do not bring binding promises to the debt. No more words of air, because we heard them last year and last year the short-term, medium- and long-term baskets. I remind you that this is how the evaluation was closed last year. Where are these promises, Mr. Tsipras? They have agreed to unstable surpluses of 3.5% of GDP for many years by chaining the country and binding it to the dangerous Grexit dilemma or lasting austerity. You don't have the legitimacy to do that. The Greek programme was allocated to the International Monetary Fund by those who would have banned it - if you remember. They recognised a key role for the International Monetary Fund in the Greek programme, effectively entrusting it with monitoring and control of its implementation. They signed the inseparable divestment of PPC's units, after leading it a lip before the destruction. They abandoned their declarations of reinstatement of collective agreements by staying only in the provisions of Law 4024 of 2011 - I stress this - which they exist and will apply anyway. One is the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, that the continuation of this SYRIZA Government's stay - ANEL can only bring disaster and deadlock to the ground. And I now come to the subject of examination. Look, I heard things say beyond logic, beyond political morality. Mercy! We, when we talk about health issues, feel that we are playing inside. I cannot hear that you have been linked to the path of health, because this case is the most historic time-consuming reform that has indeliblely been sealed by the PASOK and the Democratic Partnership, and no one is allowed in this Chamber to rewrite history. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The NSA has endured the years. It certainly has been affected by the crisis and it needs bold changes so that it can offer citizens quality services again. What is the government doing today? He proposes that we discuss health stuff from 1997 to 2014, focusing on a number of aspects, notably on waste management, with a peak in drug spending. As we have already stressed, we want to discuss everything. We are proud of our overall work in the field of health, from 1982 to today. It is a work that is distinguished for efficiency, management capacity and transparency. It is a project for primary care and social welfare. The welfare state simply did not exist before PASOK, ladies and gentlemen. And I come to work on hospital care and infrastructure. What truth can it doubt, within or outside Athens, that six university and thirty prefectural hospitals were built, one hundred and ninety out of the two hundred health centers, that the EKA was extended throughout the country, that OkANA and EEAY were founded, that we reformed mental health, leaving behind the terrible images of Leros? It's a job that's left a seal and control of the medical expenditure. But it's not just the past. It is the present one that must concern us, and in particular the black one created by this government, with the dissolution of public hospitals, the underfunding, the inadequate functioning of the EEAS, the opacity of the relevant ministers. It is courageous to come to this Chamber and present a virtual reality, because every day the Greek people live what the National Health System means for SYRIZA - ANEL days. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The investigation into the management of state budget resources in the past and the emergence of fraud and corruption phenomena must, yes, be linked to the allocation of responsibilities where they exist. It is, however, necessary to lead to decisions on bold changes so that mistakes and distortions are dealt with and not repeated in the future. If this is not the case, the political reason you are articulating against waste and corruption is not useful. On the contrary, it can also be described as a suspect. Ladies and gentlemen, the proper management of health budget resources is inextricably linked to the quality of the services provided to the citizens. That is why it is right to investigate the whole course of expenditure on medicines, medical materials, examinations, other health services and infrastructure, before the crisis, but after it. To look at the period of great waste over New Democracy. New Democracy, in particular in the period 2004-2009, smuggled resources, degraded quality, handled with an unreasonable party criterion the operation of hospitals and consciously led citizens to the services of the private sector. At that time, public pharmaceutical expenditure was literally calling from EUR 2.2 billion in 2003 to EUR 5.2 billion in 2009, an increase of 136%. It was when the total health expenditure increased by 41%, by EUR 6.8 billion, which was unimproved without improving the quality of benefits, but through a rapid increase in prices and uncontrolled over-consumption. So let's look at it all. But look at the major reforms of the 2010-2012 period that have been carried out to eliminate the phenomena and limit the waste. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Why, ladies and gentlemen, the PASOK governments have dared and proceeded in historical areas and within the crisis: In e-prescription of medicines and examinations, in a special system of health records for ELSTAT to identify precisely the total health expenditure, in the regulation of hospital debts for the period 2005-2009, in the creation of the EEA, the institution that unifys the method of financing health and promotes the new organisation of the institution of primary health care in new policies for the medicine, through the dissemination of generics, the program of electronic services for 50 active substances, the change of pricing system, the clawback, return to social security bodies, resources by companies. I'm gonna need two more minutes, Mr. President. Besides, everyone has taken more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u430	Of course, Madam President. Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u431	As a result, total health expenditure in 2012 appeared to be reduced by EUR 2.4 billion. No one can question that. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] While expenditure on the medicine returned to around EUR 2,37 billion, to around 2003. So to appreciate both the period of waste and the supply and effectiveness of the major sections that followed, so that we draw useful conclusions on how to move in the future. On the occasion of this, I again put seven proposals to the House - which we presented in the question that we specifically asked for on health issues - which can improve the system, save resources, without reducing the welfare state, the social state, without reducing the quality of the services provided to citizens. [[At this point the President of the PASOK Democrat Association - DIMAR Mr Fotini Gennamata presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Ladies and gentlemen, however, a condition for an honest attitude is to look at it all. It is not possible for transparency to be a sound card and to have an expiry date. The period 2015-2017 cannot be arbitrarily and stubbornly excluded, only because the Government finds SYRIZA - ANEL. We are asking again for them to be examined at all. Consider the fact that, in 2015, the pricing of medicinal products was not done twice, despite the explicit, different provision of the law, and thus lost throughout the year to the detriment of the citizens and to the benefit of the companies. And that, because the only price was, notice, on December 14, 2015, i.e. just before the end of the year. Consider why recruitment of personnel in hospital intensives has delayed, so that we have a record of influenza deaths last year. Consider uncovered, unfair interventions for recruitment through the CEDEFOP, which are already criminally investigated by justice, with heavy accusations. And not only that, because during the last two years the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has failed to control the quantity, but also the composition of prescribing, so that the phenomenon of polypharmaceuticals or the promotion of expensive medicines continues at the expense of generics. We need to see what's going on right here. At primary health care, the government announced the creation of new primary units in the urban centres, while there are no necessary resources, neither economic nor human, instead of better organising the existing system of the CED. And even initially it brought an amendment - so heavy they give primary health care - and now they promise that they will bear a bill after they realise that they have been irreparablely exposed. In hospitals, the government does not go ahead with the necessary redesign of clinical and laboratory laboratories, which, if you wish, is the only solution for them to survive at this stage, while the recruitment of particularly nursing staff we claim to be excluded from the Memorandum Restrictions and Obligations are desperately delayed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Assent has submitted an integrated proposal for the Committee of Inquiry. We accept the examination of the past, but we also call for the examination of the period of the current government. We say 'yes' to transparency and control, but without appropriate divisions and exceptions. And what did we hear yesterday and today from the Minister responsible? Listen, listen, we do not want, he says, to be suspected of covering up criminal offences, but we do not want to give the signal that we are potentially controlled and that we are all the same. We can't all, he says, get in the same bag. What an etho! What bravery! We used to say: "Save sky, lightnings are not afraid." But it seems that something is going on here. They are so ruthless that they disqualify themselves as being above all suspicion and decide to exclude themselves from any control! Mr Tsipras, who rejected all the other proposals for examining his actions, has a road to avoid absolute political humiliation: I challenge him to accept our proposal for an investigation into health issues as well. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And don't tell us again about the moral advantage, because your life and your state have absolutely nothing to do with the worthy left system, which you have no more right to invoke. The moral advantage of the SYRIZA-ANEL format consists of lying, demagogy, populism, legitimising political violence, targeting individuals and moral extermination of the different viewpoints. The historian of the future will use your things as a flagship example of political opportunism. Be sure, Prime Minister, the time of the crisis is coming. Time is already counting. The truth will find its way to light. The fact that you cannot as a government does not mean that Greece cannot. Greece may, ladies and gentlemen, by means of a national agreement and national line, with a national plan, which will finally lead the country out of the crisis safely, but also with a view. The "Greek Plan" for which we are already working, is earning supporters every day in every region of the country, because it is the alternative. That's what the place needs today. As far as the committee of inquiry is concerned, we will insist to the end on our proposal. Transparency and truth are not offered either for trade or for negotiations. And our party, too, is not offered for games. We won't allow it to happen to anyone. No intimidation, no setbacks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u432	Thank you to the President of the PASOK Democratic Group - DIMAR Mr. Fofi Gennimata. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have six minutes because your President spoke beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Mr President. Really, what does the government pursue on its current initiative? He's basically seeking to cover up the dangerous health situation and those responsible for this situation. It seeks to cover the enormous responsibilities it has and the current government, which continues to walk in the health sector on the same line, in the same direction as the previous governments. The problem, unfortunately, for you and the previous governments, is not whether they are theirs or your children or how much our 'our children' are. The problem isn't the one or the two recruitments that you've done or done. The problem is not the 5 euros or 10 euros that you gave or gave. In essence, the problem is the class direction, the class content of health policy being pursued. Since, as a government, you accept that the worker, the labour force, is a commodity, which can be sold and purchased, and not the producer of wealth, once you accept that the patient is a customer, it must be made to the best advantage in the interests of the capital that is active in the health sector, since you accept that health is an individual responsibility and not a social asset, which must be provided free of charge throughout the world, under the responsibility of the State, which leads to the merchandise of health, the class differentiation depending on each other's financial capacity. So health is becoming more and more in merchandise. For example, the diversity of our conception, as a JRC, with the parties that govern or oppose within the walls of the system is very obvious. You announced yesterday your plans for primary health care. We say, Minister, that primary health care should be directed to healthy people and not to patients. In other words, it must be a prevention measure and not a disease treatment measure. On the contrary, what did you do to the same logic? By the fact that the patient is a customer, there's a further trade. What do you create? Through what you call primary health care, you create a net that will offer very degraded health benefits to the people and especially to the poorest and impoverished, while the possibilities in the health sector are enormous to meet the demand for healthy working class and healthy people's strata. This is the classic criterion that all governments have served to date, but also the current government in the field of health. The European Union's health policy is also subject to this criterion, which is consistently implemented. The sustainability of the system - you have accepted this condition - the cost-benefit logic, which you have also accepted, is the basis for deterioration and further commercialisation of health, for intensification of health workers and rapid overthrows in industrial relations. The example of ancillary staff is very clear, either of individual contractors or of trade with service packages. This is precisely what the background is for the development of corruption and interrelatedity. Because the procurement case either concerns medical equipment, medical equipment, maintenance, consumables, medicines has as a criterion to satisfy the capitalist profit of business groups, multinationals active in the health sector. This chase of capitalist profit is the background of corruption and interlocutory. Besides, the competition of the multinationals in a small pie becomes even more escalating. It is no coincidence that the “NOVARTIS scandal” erupted from the competition of multinationals in the drug field. The SIEMENS scandal also came out of a corresponding competitor. The same will happen with yesterday's, today's and tomorrow's coming out. Under the pretext of combating corruption and interlocutory, the government - and the previous ones and today - went on to reduce the public spending in the field of health. At the same time private expenditure is being increased. You have thus made it easier to speed up overthrows, reactionary restructurings and health. The second purpose of your proposal is to disorientate the people. You repeat to every committee of inquiry that for the crisis that the working class is experiencing and the attack it is taking is the scandal and corruption and that it is not a crisis of the capitalist system. You're trying to acquit the system. In essence, the sepsis, complexity and corruption are a child of the system, because it is the result of the synthesis between the economic power of capital on the one hand and the political power of the bourgeoisie and its parties on the other. You want to mislead the people at the moment you seek to close the second evaluation, bring the fourth memorandum, with new barbaric anti-grassroots measures, with committees of inquiry seeking to cover up the substance of your policy. In other words, you are simply offering the people a cheap spectacle, when you remove even this little bread that they have left. Thirdly, through this process, it is the aim of further strengthening the gloomy confrontation, of confrontation without substance between the parties of the government and the other parties of the Euromono street to form precisely this framework that will actually extinguish popular discontent within the walls of the system, making one or the other option so that the people of Scylla or Harybden are chosen, thus entangled in popular discontent. What comes out of this whole situation? There is nothing but the rotting of the capitalist system, the rotting of the political management of this system in all areas, both in the economy and equipment and in health and elsewhere. The task of our working class and people is to condemn the capitalist system, its anti-grassroots policy and its managers, namely the urban parties of cohabitation or the opposition urban parties, and to organize its struggle for more overall ruptures and overthrows. For as long as big capital is predominant in economy and society, the more power is in its bourgeoisie and its parties, the more it sees its position to deteriorate, whether we are in crisis or in conditions of capitalist development, the more it sees the expansion of the gap between the objective possibilities for satisfying the needs and the level of satisfying the people's needs, which is increasingly degrading, the more it is seen to accumulate more and more wealth in less hands, the accumulation achieved through strife and corruption. We as a JRC - and I conclude with this, Mr President - do not agree either with the political considerations of the government's proposal for a committee of inquiry or with that of the New Democracy. We have no delusion that another committee of inquiry will be able to bring everything to light and reach the knife in the bone. As a JRC, without delusion, we say that all aspects need to be investigated and there should be no time limit, but this examination should be up to now. Because, Mr Ministers of Government, Mr Ministers for Health, Caesar's wife must not only be honest, but must also be seen. And whatever certificates of moral dedication and you give yourself, they have absolutely no value. So we think that these two proposals are complementary and that they should be put to the vote and that every Member and every party should be able to choose both proposals either positively or negatively. Because as a JRC, we are telling you clearly, we are not going to take part in the game that you are going to set up on the back of the Greek people. We are not going to choose either side of the game. And from this point of view, we will not play in the bipartite quadrant, which you want to set up in the health sector with the examination. So if the proposals do not come as a complement, the Communist Party of Greece will not vote for any proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u434	Thank you very much for the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos. Congressman Nikolaos Dendias is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 28 April to 30 April 2017 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u435	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We shall proceed with the President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Vassili Leventis. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u436	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am giving everyone my good evening. It seems that the House has solved all the other problems of society and starts its examinations, that is, it starts chasing witches. For those who have so far been in Parliament's history and those who have been inquiring, even the special courts, remember, with the acquittal of Andreas Papandreou, with the'six-seven' etc., it proved that hours have been spent. It never worked. And the Chochazopoulou we referred to, money didn't get the public. That is, if we put down what the Greek State spent for the Chohatzopoulos trial, we paid him on top. That's what I think. However, after Mr Tsipras chose this road, he will be going through this path of examinations, with which I do not agree. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] I do not agree with that road. I'll tell you why I don't agree. On the grounds of philosophy. As I told you, on supplies, when it is over EUR 1 million, there must also be a prosecutor, to know that some 'rats' don't stick the finger on honey. If we let the rats eat and drink and come afterward looking, that is, a state that comes after the party, I think it will never find any point in this country. It would be much more useful for the House to close the cliffs of fraud by strict laws from now on, because the system for a Minister to go to order submarines and for us to rely on his good honor and dignity that he will not steal or look after retrospectively, these are not things that are serious, if we want to press, that is, the hatreds, the stealing, the fraud. Because we certainly also had a party in the drug field, I heard the Minister, whom I appreciate, who said "we do not put the SYRIZA period in, because we have a route that guarantees our honesty". That can be said by anyone. And in court if you go - I'm not a lawyer, I'm a political engineer - no defendant accepts guilt. Everyone declares innocent. It is not now to invoke our route so that we do not put our own resources in the period. On the contrary, he had a party that felt clear to put his own time in order to prove that the process is transparent. Saying "I have a good route, so it's impossible to steal, so why do we look for my age," sounds bad to the Greek people, in my humble opinion. You have time, one or two hours - I don't know how long we have until the vote - to review this thing. It sounded very badly by the Minister, but I may appreciate some of his efforts. Since he's not afraid of anything? Anyone who was would have offered his time to remain in power to control and would not say "my path is such that I cannot be a cradle". These aren't things. Please review why the Greek people are affected on the hearings of such phrases. The Greek people are affected. Another thing that certainly needs to be noted in health is that private hospitals have gone up. They went up with the depreciation of the state. So there is surely a great guilt of the ministers, because all the ministers and all the staff that have been through have helped to claim private hospitals. And how did they make themselves stronger? With incidents in state hospitals that didn't offer proper services, lack of medical staff, with one another. Thus, some entrepreneurs, who are not even doctors, made large hospital centers. However, the reason for strengthening private health interests is the depreciation of state hospitals. All of what has been said in the Chamber - I have followed the speeches almost all - that there are many cases of infections and fatal microbes in state hospitals, whereas in private cases there are fewer cases. So there's a health problem. In fact, it's not just lowering spending. For example, the day before yesterday I was looking for a medicine, INEGY, I searched eighteen drugs that I went through the street to my house and didn't find it. They told me that INEGY has a shortage. Is that a lie? Also, another time we talked about health, I had a fax that the hospital in Zakynthos was not even working. He didn't have a surgery or anything. Then I heard Mr. Tsipras from somewhere where he went to say "Now the hospital will work", and on that day he didn't say to me "You are right, it doesn't work". We must have the courage. It's not, of course, Tsipras's fault if something's not working. We have to tell the truth. Here, in Athens, at the "Vulas Asclipio", you were sent across and you were taken by your own antitank serum to get him inside. This is an incident that happened to a friend of mine. We should not, therefore, say such things if you want us to truly investigate. Unless you want to incriminate each other to make a fair. If we want a festival, and if we want to be fairy, it's up to us. If we want to raise Parliament's level, it is up to us again. However, it is a condition for any proposal to be serious and responsible. The government says he wants to fight corruption. I'm telling you, since there's the proposal to the big commissions and the big expenses, why don't you do it? You rule. Who's blocking you? I don't see anyone blocking you. Start by putting prosecutors in the big commissions. There are now definitely some replacements in the defence army. The annual cost may be high. Has he been in the D.A.? Because if he has not entered, tomorrow the Minister may be told again the others who will come and say the same. So, in this place, whoever comes is going to do commissions for the previous ones? The money will be lost, will the money of the Greek people be leaked and all that remains for us is the committees of inquiry? The canneau has to be closed. Let's decide. Unless we're messing with each other. Why is all the wings silent on this matter? As far as public works are concerned, Mr Tsipras says that projects are being carried out. He went and inaugurated them. There will obviously be some other projects. Where these projects are assigned, are we absolutely sure they don't give up? Are we absolutely sure? Can you put your hand in the Gospel? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u437	Yeah, we put it on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u438	We put it on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u439	We put it in, because we're not like the people you're implying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u440	Three put your hand in the gospel, ladies and gentlemen. The other two hundred ninety-seven? So go ridicul the gospel.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u441	You're judging the odds yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u442	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u443	I am not going to dwell much on health, because you follow the method of not stepping on the possibility of stealing, we let you steal and come back and we're chasing. The Centro Association does not agree on such a philosophy. We are going to negotiate, where there are some serious issues, because what we are discussing today is not very serious, honestly. And you will see this from the continuation of the process. It's retaliations and stuff like that. On the subject of negotiation, hear how Mr Tsipras says it: the agreement is closed, but if they do not regulate the debt, we do not sign it. What's this? Lagard's coming out today, and she says: First the reforms, then the debt. Here's the answer. What are you gonna do? Then you said Schultz was in favor of Greece. Schultz just a couple of days ago calls for reforms. He doesn't agree anymore. He went to the Soible line. And Shoeble became calmer. But you don't know the reason Schultz and Shoeble changed. From Germany he happens to know a few things. I'll explain now why Schultz and Shoeble have changed. They're doing research there. Men Schultz thought it was going well in the polls and had a chance of getting Chancellor out. He ate in Saarland a slap and he was afraid. He tells you: I supported Greece and it cost me. Shultz's back. Merkel once again knows that the German citizen does not want to pay, but wants a great Europe, does not want a second state to leave the euro. The German citizen is currently divided. What does he want? He wants and does not pay as a taxpayer, but wants the euro not to be dissolved, and Merkel to be accused of having contributed to the dispersion of the euro by its weaknesses. So, Merkel's back, and she says, let's help Greece a little - in words, not in essence - to see how we get to the polls. It's a game like this. They both went back for their own reasons. Don't think Mr. Tsipras will ever get any help. Whoever comes out in Germany will be tough and will be first reforms and then any regulation. Do not expect that there will be mercy, that is, we will do him the grace of any Tsipras and any other Prime Minister after him and that they will say: "You are not bored, let us not make reforms. Help them now a little.’ If the political world in Greece is waiting for this, it's naive. I explained to you the reasons Schultz and Shoeble changed. Greece's debt is to make reforms and then it can claim the regulations from outside. Being able to make arrangements while mocking up the reforms will not do that to us. You should know here that there is a problem with what reform is and what measures are. Measure is to tax. Measure is to cut wages, pensions. This is a temporary measure that solves your balance this year. Reform is the creation of a permanent new entry that you didn't have until yesterday. That's reform. Reform is the stop of an expense that you have been permanently spending to date. That's reform. It is the stop of a permanent expenditure that you have had so far and the acquisition of a new source of income that you have not had to date. That's reform. This Chamber may have confused the two concepts. Because I go all over Greece and they tell me "reforms, baby, we do", and we haven't done anything. No professions have been opened, no tax system has been set up, and no public assessment has been made of whether there are slow wages to displace them, transfer them to private jobs, and no pensions for triplers have been drawn into one, and no pensions for the rich have been discussed by Mr Tsipras at all. Because if he had cut them, they would not have needed these tough measures of 3.6 billion. Mr Tsipras did not accept such drastic reforms, which would not hurt the poor by the thousands and harm the havings. He didn't do that. He did horizontal situations and he complains about outside. He thinks the outsides will retreat. You're Planning. There's Mr. Tsipras too. I told him myself. It goes without saying that without reforms, the country will be able to beg for doses, programs and money further. It's our opinion. Work again. Since you want privatizations here, you want new investments, if you start with hard labour laws, no one will come. What did I suggest? The smart thing that this Chamber and the government must do, or any government. To elasticate working relations at the moment and when we leave the memorandum and to stabilise our position in the euro and Greece is back on its feet, it has every comfort to restore charity laws. By Tsipras saying "I do not retreat, I do not retreat and are thorns in the consultations" and time flowing, what profit, gentlemen? I want to say a few words about polling. I've asked for the recommendation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u444	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u445	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u446	You, Mr. Mustache, have a problem with the polls, especially since your party goes 'in front' in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u447	Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u448	I requested an independent authority. Why did I ask the independent authority for it? Because one minister said - I don't remember who he is - that he is the best man of Mitsotakis one who makes good polls on PASOK and New Democracy. There's one who goes up all the time. Don't say names now in the Chamber. They're buttons, he says. If they're buttons, take action. I ask you, like the PSE, only for the polls. To make a survey, to take the data either by polling or by phones completed, to check the results of the independent authority, and then to say "SKAI", "NATIONS", "VOLUTIONAL TYPOS". No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, For example, last September they had Lafasan 6% and the Central Association 2%. In September before the elections, they had 2% of the Centro Association and Lafazanis 6%. Do you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u449	You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u450	Can we even say how much did they go for the referendum? Shall we put the referendum on it? I can't imagine in the New Democracy believing in polling, because you're gonna land on the run.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u451	We believe.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u452	No parachute, you'll land if you believe them. You know inside and you know what's going on. But here, I want to find something else. I'm going to be a little sad for Mrs. Gennamas. Two parties have been responsible for the country for the last forty-five years, PASOK and the New Democracy. That's who I remember fighting then. Forty years I struggled with a small party to enter the House against both the New Democracy and the PASOK. And now I see PASOK and New Democracy preparing to take over power. What's that now? Right to those who went bankrupt? How's this coming now? In other words, the Greek people - who went bankrupt by the country, with all that festivities - are coming, saying: "I have kissed. They were nice those who went bankrupt. Shall we get them back together." That's what polls want to tell us. That the Greek people are returning to the crime scene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u453	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u454	He's such a philosopher!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u455	So briefly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u456	All right, Mr. President. I think that if we go to elections and Mr. Tsipras has not made the independent authority, he will have harmed himself, because it is a big crime, if he does not. It will perpetuate an dishonesty, because the world is being lured from polls. Watch out for that, it's not a funny thing. Because Tsipras says he has a slogan that he's chasing the complication. More complexion than newspapers and canals is polling, because when you are written thirty and the other ten, a piece of the world, particularly low education, is being lured. What does she want to get involved and what she does if that thing leaves it like that? This is very important and I am addressing all the wings. Also, I see in PASOK that the guard of George Papandreou, all: Petsalnikos, all those people, the nice ones that had been hiding for three to four years, were not coming out into the sunlight because they had put the country in the memorials. Now Sahinides, the Minister for Finance, was back in "SKAI" - I don't remember where they were - and he spoke and had all sorts of solutions. I'm saying since you've had and had solutions for everything now, so many years where have you been? What did you do, buddy, and you weren't applying the solutions? [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] In the meantime, I'm going to say something bad for the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u457	Please be very brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u458	This must be heard, Mr President. The representatives of the New Democracy come out on the channels and show very simply that by reducing the tax rates the problem will be solved by reducing the tax rates the problem is solved in the New Democracy. That's the problem. Why didn't you do it in Samara's two years?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u459	Sure, we did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u460	Did you do it? Oh, and we left the memos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u461	You're not watching, Mr. President. We've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u462	Mr. President, allow me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u463	I'm sorry, it seems in the New Democracy they've believed in the error, which they're following. Listen, I also spoke to your Chief, because I had difficulties with this appointment, because the Mitsotakis family was negative electricity for us, they had thrown a government of the center, it wasn't an easy date - I don't hide it to you - and I gave you a chance. But be careful. Consent is my faith. You're asking for authority. You want power, and I'm afraid of those who have the courage to want power. I fear them, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber. Tsipras himself told him that you were with fifty bonus seats and you, and you must respect Greece. And you haven't taken the vote, the percentage, so I rule by myself. So I say the same to your Chief from this Chamber, from this Step! It's a great deal of courage to go out to a people, to a Step and say I will rule you. Who are you, sir? The countries want coalitions, they want consensus, they want dialogue, they want understanding. You want one team to fall and you to come. You are not convinced of the goodness of your intentions or of the ability to implement this program. I have nothing to add, not to say that I am giving two, three hours, as much as this convention has today, to Mr Tsipras to extend the period for the Tsipras period, that is, for his own period, so that the Centroon Union can vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u464	Thank you, Mr Leventis. Let us make it clear in the Chamber that there are neither two or three hours. There are the twelve minutes of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, the six minutes of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, because Mr Mitsotakis had spoken before, and then the Prime Minister will also be speaking to whom we are calling for it to be relatively short, because we have identified the working hours differently. It is a large Wednesday and many colleagues have made tickets to the region, to leave to Crete and elsewhere, and I would ask that the procedure be followed as far as possible. Thank you. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u465	I shall try to be shorter, Mr President. I'll start at the basics, because we shouldn't lose the big picture. We are well aware of the perception and practical application of neoliberalism to health. Neoliberalism what's he saying? It says that health is not a public social asset, but an individual responsibility for each individual. This is the womb, which produces social inequality, exclusion and marginalisation. In these contexts of neoliberalism waste and corruption are being hatched. And the crucial element here, because we must not forget, is that from this point of view, this element adds and produces new class barriers to universal access to health. That is why, from this point of view, it makes sense - and it is important - to investigate from all sides and, of course, from the side of the House what has happened all this time in the field of health. There is a crucial question here: why all these years, while money flowed, while there were hundreds of cases, the responsible political forces did not do anything to see what was going on in this area? In 2015, I tell you an example, he issued a total of four bodies managing sanitary, pharmaceutical, administrative, economic and other sectors of four hundred ninety-nine control orders. In 2016 she issued two hundred and twenty-eight commands of control. The findings were made, one behind the other. I'm not trying at all. Any attempts to resolve the system, on its side, to stop this party, must appreciate them in the way we have to appreciate them on this route. However, the final result - and this has a name-planned policy, as both health ministers have said - is that on this route of many years, many decades, despite what I say, despite any changes to the health system, there has been no barrier to this party. We cannot be indifferent when the more modest estimates speak of billions lost on this route. Here, ladies and gentlemen, a diversion has been made. Because that was the diversion from the side of Officer Opposition to say and put the trap through the back door that we are all the same, we all ate it together. Let me say - because, Mr President, I am charged with this debate - that this country is a small country and we are very well acquainted with and that we do not have any, but absolutely none, problem for full research on all issues. But not only do we have our route, not just now, but we are ready and have no problem being obsolete, as you say in the chair of power, and the next day to defend the public health system, as many of us have done tens of years. So our measure for the future - and we will be judged very rigorously for that, and we want to be severely judged - is whether people who need health services will not be sold out will not be approached by hospitals and health centres in fear that they do not have the price in their pockets to serve when the health system officials - these few, because they are few, because they are speculating on human suffering, will be zeroed, they will not exist, they will be unclaimed. This is a crucial problem, a very crucial problem, and do not underestimate it, so that the health system can stand on its feet. There is a narrow atmosphere that, like the other committees, says - and this committee will not reach any conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that depends very much on what the committee will do. And I think it has the clear potential through research on all these aspects to give the Greek people a clear result. To say how it happened and how this party turned into health. To say specific things. Because he can say specific things. For there is no answer, for example, to the medicine - and we must answer, ladies and gentlemen - why there was no negotiation in Greece of compensation prices, so that the Greek people could hear it. The Greek State in all its forms pays for huge quantities of medicines at the same unit price as a private customer who would buy a box. That has been the case for ten years. Not to say what was going on in this place before 2010, when it was not under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. In this respect, I would like to say that there is a systematic effort by the government, as other countries do, in cooperation with Italy, Spain, Portugal, Cyprus and Malta, to finally have a mechanism to negotiate compensation prices. There was no health assessment mechanism in Greece. This mechanism, in other words, to be understood, will be able to give an opinion on the clinical added value of each product compared to other medicines, but also on the total economic cost. Ladies and gentlemen, are you questioning that the same people, who were advisors, associates of pharmaceutical companies, were both consultants and associates at the Ministry of Health in matters of pharmaceutical policy? Are you questioning that? Should a vertical ban not finally be introduced to be pharmaceutical policy advisers who are in paid jobs by the pharmaceutical industry? Yes or no? Moreover, there are no mechanisms in Greece to control the demand for medicinal products, i.e. therapeutic protocols and pharmaceutical guidance. This has now begun to be implemented. The ministers told you that there has been a great deal of effort in this. I think we have more than twenty-five protocols today - and this needs to be extended everywhere - that allow us to have control over this crucial mechanism of demand. And there was built the "NOVARTIS" scandal and other companies, without sufficient evidence of treatment at a cost of EUR 8 to EUR 10 per month. This is replaced by drugs that went ten times. From 8 euros to 10 euros they went to 100 euros. These are questions we have to answer, not to find guilty or to nail, days that are, at the cross of some people, but why we must at last answer these questions in an institutional way - and we are determined to do so - so that we cannot literally deny what may result from these holes of the health system. We know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that this conflict will be a great deal. We have full knowledge of many of us in this Chamber that this system is not a Greek system. It's an international system. They are strong interests and Greek and multinational companies. International games are being played, if I may, on these issues. It is therefore a very difficult problem without a doubt. To conclude, Mr President, to be consistent with what I said, I would like to say this because there has been a lot of discussion on the 2015 drug price report. I would therefore like to say that the price sheet for the first half of the year did not come out, ladies and gentlemen, because the negotiations were under way. The agreement that included changes to the pricing method was not closed, and you know it very well. When the deal was closed and elections were held, the Ministry's official leadership made the necessary ministerial decision and immediately after the new Minister took out the price sheet of medicinal products that was applied in December 2015. That's the truth. And to finish by dedicating something to the Chief of Officer's Opposition, a myth. In Greek mythology there is Kalhas - you know him - a master, a prophet, important in Greek mythology. Mr. Mitsotakis today became a Calchas, a calchas of destruction, a calchas of collapse! Do you know what it was - in mythology, always - the end of Calchanta? Well, Calhas had planted a vineyard. One local prophet, another, told him that he would not be able to drink his vine wine. Calhas sanitized him. The vine has gone forth, has given grapes and wine. The day Calchas tried the new wine, he invited all the neighbors. At the time he raised the cup to drink his wine, the local prophet reminded him that he would not finally test his wine. Calhas started laughing so loud that he just ran out of laughter without even touching the glass with his lips. That's your fate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u466	With the clarification that we are talking about political endings alone. Here, Mr Dendia, you have the floor as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy and then the Prime Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u467	It is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, to speak after such a mythology. In any case, however, we will go to this at the end of my little placement. You know, when we think about why we're here today, Big Wednesday afternoon, I think we all know the answer very well. We are here, of course, not to agree on how we can exalt the health sector - something that we would probably have to do - we are here for one fundamental reason, because you have tragically failed the government majority, the SYRIZA - ANEL government, in evaluation. Once again, you're fucked the worst. You promised everything. You said in the most official, heavier way of saying that you will not accept or bring one euro, and that we understand - if we understand correctly - you have already agreed to tax-free, tax-free. He was generous, the Chief of Antipopulation, Mr. Mitsotakis, when he said "something above, something below the six thousand". It seems to be well below six thousand. You have also agreed to cut all personal differences in pensions and from what we understand you have also agreed to sell 40% of PPC's production units. There, really, what you've achieved is triumphant. You refused the sale of the small PPC of 30%, with which you would get money, and instead you reduced the entire PPC by 50%, and after you reduced it by 50%, you would also give 40%. Bravo! Well done! That's great! That's a brave deal. Serious position! Steady stop! Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Finance came here, who did not very much ask Mr Mitsotakis for the floor. Instead of coming to us, instead of institutionalising, instead of having Parliament convened and finding out where the negotiations are, the Minister of Finance and the Government preferred to inform and discuss with the Central Committee of SYRIZA last Sunday, and at the same time the last position of the Minister towards the national Parliament is that, if we negotiate, the national Parliament is not entitled to be informed, because this is what is at stake. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the open debate in the SYRIZA Central Committee is at no risk of negotiating. However, the debate in the national Parliament, which could also meet with closed doors, ah, no, this poses a threat to the negotiation. So, one realizes what is the awkward way this completely failed, the only failed, the unprecedented failed government. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you again of something that I told the Minister himself. He told us - and I am also inclined to remember what is said, especially when this is heavy - that if he brings EUR 1 new measures, he will resign. I imagine he will have the equilibrium to carry out the threat, even though I understand it, I do not see him too prepared. We've all understood you, you know, that chairs look very sweet to you. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] In any case, I would also like to say something that Mr Mitsotakis also said, because it is the permanent position of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u468	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u469	You with the mustache - Mr Leventis was right - you're always shouting. We, ladies and gentlemen, understand what you are and understand what the Greek society expects. But we also have a big question with the lenders, because they agree with you and allow you to propose and accept unacceptable measures, such as the level of tax obligations, such as the level of insurance contributions, such as measures that sink the Greek economy. They also have responsibility, and in every way we are addressing not only you, but also them, and we tell them that the Greek society is being harmed by these measures. I now come the last one and a half minutes, on this matter which today is the agenda, the committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, we have little to say in the New Democracy. We have no objections. Of course, whatever you want, we've told you all along. We should consider whatever you want, when you want, as you want. But you have to tell us one thing. Why not look at 1996 when a government term starts? Why don't we talk about 2015-2017, your things? Why should this remain outside the scope of this deep institutional investigation, as the parliamentary representative of the government's majority has said before? Why, ladies and gentlemen? To tell you the truth, if I hadn't heard it from the Minister of Health, I wouldn't have thought that someone would dare say that, even though I had it written it down, because he said it to a channel, and it came to me. Because - it says - "We refuse the House to examine us, because we are not like others. We are unlike others."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u470	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u471	That's your argument, we didn't hear anything else. First of all, let me say, ladies and gentlemen, for the period 1996-1997, who were you the same to, to know? Are you with the Sheite Government the same or isolate the case of Mr. Kurubli? Why I do not imagine that you, the so moral government majority, have in your mind the limitation, and that is why you left out in 1996-1997. I never think, I dare believe, that the limitations, time limits can be compared with this great morale which you have declared that you collectively have and impose on the other groups. But let's say if you're kind. By the way, I will propose this examination - we have the names with the tunnels, you know, lately - to be called 'Kourublis tunnel', because it takes us from Mr Kurubili 1996 to Mr Kurubl in 2015, passing through everything else. It should be called "Kurubli tunnel", then! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But let's go in 2015-2017, ladies and gentlemen. What does that mean 'we are not like each other'? What does it mean? You know, my colleague here, earlier, dedicated a myth of Aesopus to the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis. So in the short time that I had, too, until I went up the stairs, I thought, too, not a myth, but a story. Do you know a writer named George Orwell? He is best known for '1984'. But there is another book, ladies and gentlemen: 'Animal Farm'. So, there, for those who don't know the story, some animals, I won't tell you which animals, so that you don't think I'm insulting you... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Do you recognize something and yell? Does that remind you of anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u472	Be quiet, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u473	Some animals, therefore, take over power and put a sign on which they say 'all animals are equal'. But these animals who have understood power, after a while they start doing everything in their own interests. To steal the rest of the animals, to bend all the rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u474	Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u475	And after a while, a protesting animal that goes to see this initial sign, the equality agreement, sees that the sign has changed. It says: 'all animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others'! After this dedication, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, I tell you that if you remember, there is an article in the Greek Constitution, Article 4. Article 4 of the Greek Constitution says that all Greeks are equal to the law and I do not remember making any exceptions to SYRIZA or ANEL.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u476	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u477	So I suggest you now, in view of the new communication effort you will make to review the Constitution, propose the change of Article 4 and write that all Greeks are equal, but those who are with SYRIZA are more equal! Ladies and gentlemen, good resurrection!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u478	Thank you very much. Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr President. I guess Mr. Dendias got mixed up with the zoo. He's not in here, he's next door. But you will allow me to begin - because you know this is not even a matter of medicine, it is a question of veterinary medicine - with some comments about the placement of the Chiefs of Antipolitics, particularly Mr Mitsotakis. I fully understand the rug in which the opposition is found, particularly after Friday, after Malta. That is why I am going to be as lenient as I can, especially with the Chief of Representation, because he is not in the Chamber. He chose to come at noon, when he said this afternoon, and I unfortunately couldn't be here at noon to hear him. So I have the image of what I read from the media, because I didn't hear him with my ears. However, I think Mr. Mitsotakis has been acting like the gambler who's been to the casino, lost, lost, rejoined at the casino, regained everything in black, lost and went and for the third time all over black, but he's coming red. And it's gone again. That's the way it is. When one chooses to put all his money - one, two, three - in destruction and she doesn't come, she feels awkward. And indeed, this is the embarrassment of discerning Opposition in the last few days. I would like to point out that even after the February Eurogroup, you went out to all the media - and Mr Mitsotakis and officials of the New Democracy - and said that there is no political agreement or agreement nor now or ever. I do not know, of course, where you supported such certainty. Where was she supported, both by Mr. Mitsotakis and your members, who went out to the media? I do not know exactly what and who exactly you were given such information or what exactly you were informed of the travels you made abroad and particularly in Berlin. However, your information or assessments proved absolutely wrong. And the evaluation closes and we get an agreement with a zero budget balance and, above all, we get an overall agreement, which clears the measures necessary in the medium term for debt write-down. And now the Civic Opposition is left mainly to measure only the contradictions of its line throughout this period. Should we count them? At first you went out to the media and said that you prefer not to close the evaluation, that you want elections, that the evaluation should not be closed, that SYRIZA, through Adonidus, your Vice President, falls. In fact, in the question 'good, and what are you going to do?' He replied "we if we come, so many more measures than the lenders ask, as long as it is not SYRIZA to the government." And when the staff of your party rose up - because obviously there are people who are perfectly reasonable and cannot accept such behaviors - you changed the line and started to say 'Why are you late'? "Don't be late" and "the longer the bill grows, close the loop." And when we closed, "Waterloo, why did you close"! Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, it is frankly difficult to monitor the vulnerability of your demands and arguments. Only one thing remains stable, I have to admit, in your arguments and requests: the request for elections, which you have made, after all, when did you formulate it? Just a few days after the election of your new Chief and a few months, I would remind you, after the government re-elections in September 2015. It's been almost a year and a half, and you all this year and a half are constantly the same: today they are falling. Tomorrow they're falling. The evaluation's not closing. It is certain that the evaluation is not closed. Elections now. Elections will take place. Elections tomorrow. I think - and this is now a finding that even your officials are negotiating it - that you are now, in the face of a danger: to become the village's graphicians. Mr Mitsotakis is at the forefront of an originality: to be the first Chief of Anti-Population in the parliamentary history of the place calling for elections for almost four consecutive years, and they will not take place until they are on time. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And be careful: It's only good that originality. There's another originality, that when the elections are held on time, you're going to lose them. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And you will lose them, apart from others, and for one more reason: with this tactic, ladies and gentlemen, you are tired. You're tired of citizens too, but you're tired of yourself. You both get tired of your members and your followers, your voters. Besides showing your passion to return to the chairs of authority, what else do you have to suggest for the place? What's your alternative plan? Unless you think it is trustworthy for the Greek people to tell him that you have ruled for tens of years, and especially for the years of development, just before Olympiada and then, who have succeeded and plundered as many possibilities as this place had and been bankrupt, you say that it is all because of SYRIZA, which is now two years along with ANELs in the government of the country. But that can't convince anyone. I'm telling you with absolute honesty. And what exactly do you say? Elections. Yes, sir. Today, what is the point of asking for this? You have one argument and you keep saying it. What's that? You are, you say, incompetent government. In fact, we are incompetent government. I will reply briefly in this respect. But before I go to that, I would like to ask you this. You say 'the agreement is yours - the government - you brought it and we do not vote on it'. Obviously, we also brought it, because it was never possible for you to bring an agreement with countermeasures equivalent, to bring an agreement on the debt, which you said is viable and to bring a reintroduction of working normality to the place, since you were doing this work regularity, bringing it a measure - measure and a point - point - from 2010 onwards. It is ours, therefore, that agreement, no objections. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'll tell you something else. To understand how the Opposition says 'I do not vote for the budgetary burden'. Why? 'Cause I'm a free man.' I'm not saying it. Some of your members tell reporters. That's what they say, it's free cheeks saying they don't vote for it safe. But I can accept that even. But why are you voting against it? You will vote against, in other words, reducing taxation on companies by three points, you who are cutting right and left that business tax should be reduced. You will vote against the 2% reduction in income tax in the lowest grade. You will vote against the reduction of the solidarity tax. You will vote against the reduction of HISPIA. You will vote against the rental allowance of 600,000 per year for our fellow citizens who have no potential. You will vote against the abolition of the participation of pensioners in the drug. Of course, that's none of your business. Why would you vote for it anyway? You will be voting against measures to combat child poverty. Besides, what do you care about that? You have created these conditions, but no matter what, you will vote against them. You will vote against the free kindergartens. You will be voting against the family allowance for the first and second children. You will vote against it all. Congratulations! I would remind you that you did the same in December when we brought the thirteenth pension to a million and six hundred thousands of pensioners a day and then you got a verdict. You will vote against. Congratulations! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise and applause from the New Democracy Wing]] Some of you applaud. We will also applaud you and the Greek people, who understand who you really are, will also applaud you, because you will vote against the measures not for the negative, but for the positive ones. Because you have allergy to anything positive that's going on in this place and SYRIZA brings it, because you've suffered a vertigo and, above all, because you've become an extreme party of protest from a Central Right party. For a party of 3%, 4% or even 5%, 'no' in everything is reasonable. For a party like yours, which has been ruling the place for years, saying 'no' to everything and above all 'no' to the positive things that are done in this place, this is a dead end and a disaster. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I now come to the request for elections, because you say that this government is incompetent. Yes, sir. It is incapable of a government which has received the country in conditions of economic suffocation and bankruptcy, and today, after two years, this country has come back to normality, to have unprecedented primary surpluses and budgetary results, which you have not seen in your sleep, to have returned to positive growth and, most importantly, to have an open horizon for the overall overcoming of the crisis and the exit from the programme. It is incapable of a government that, when it took place in 2015, unemployment was 27% and is now 23%, when it took up absorption in the NRP's programmes and European funds was weeping and now it's 100%. Every euro coming from Europe is exploited and congratulated. It is incapable of a government that, when it took place, was for almost four years stopped all public works, there were great demands, we were asked for overcompensation, 1.25 billion and at risk, the tomb was broken that we should return the money we had received. And we got rid of them, the incompetent! And we took it off with less money! And we completed the works! And we deliver them to the Greek people, the incompetent! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Incompetent a government that was able for the first time after five years to normally open schools with all the teachers and all the books! Incompetent a government that was able to recruit for the first time in health, who managed to give free access to two million uninsured fellow citizens in public hospitals, who supported programmes to combat the humanitarian crisis in tens of thousands of our fellow citizens! This is the incompetent government. The one who put Greece, for the first time after many years, at the heart of developments in Europe and the world, with all the leaders, one after the other, to come to visit Greece and show our values, and that was once again the Greek player in the Southeast Mediterranean, in the geopolitical area! Incompetent a government that puts the debt on the type of suns and is expected to make a debt decision! And, of course, a government which, despite the great difficulties - there is no doubt - manages to bring about an agreement that for the first time gives way and perspective. I would therefore like to tell you that, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, we are incapable of doing so. You know what? We're incapable of mediation, remula, the dispersal of public money, corruption and scams! In this we have proved incompetent because they like you will never exist in this place! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And, of course, I now come to the subject of the debate on your great skills and skills at the party for many years in public health. Because that is what our proposal to set up a committee of inquiry is about. And I think the word 'part' is too modest to describe what has happened in the area of public health in PASOK and New Democracy governments. It is a conscious practice that plundered the public interest and brought enormous damage to the insurance funds. And, of course, it has obtained huge benefits for circuits of strong economic interests. It is a policy that is difficult to deceive, negligent or even incompetent to rulers, as it concerns cases for which the place has been plunged for years. And I am sorry if I will be sorry for you, but there is not one of our fellow citizens who listened yesterday to the CEDEFOP, to hear yesterday about Henry Dunn, or about the outrageous overpricing policy on medicines and hospital materials. Because this cologne has lasted for years! And if he's now coming to the House, it's just for one reason. Because in 2015 the Greek people decided to bring political change to the place. If it were not for the SYRIZA and ANEL Government, there would never be a chance that a committee of inquiry would be held for the big parting of public money in health. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Of course, as soon as you came up against the proposal for a committee of inquiry, you did what we all expected. You talked about trying to change the agenda. And you revealed once again the way you think about it. Your real logic - you certainly do not say so cynically, but in essence you are defending - is that all this food is not worthy of speech, how is it probably not worth investigating by the Greek Parliament, that the huge scandals in the field of health, but elsewhere, were about - how did someone say the other day? - a social phenomenon, which runs society horizontally and vertically and therefore makes no sense to address such issues. So, what times are we talking about? At times when there was growth in the country, where the misappropriation of public money was not, unfortunately, the exception. But, of course, thanks to strong media protection, no one was serious about these issues at the heart of discussion and dialogue. We are talking about the times when corruption at all levels did not produce almost any political cost and therefore, in your view, there is no reason to deal with it but to do, as you say, a micro-policy. That's the logic, if you like, that led the country to bankruptcy. And when you brought in, when it came, in any case, the troika to impose policies that have not been imposed elsewhere in Europe until then, then what have you done? Because you're constantly accusing us of being incompetent and lying. But we are the only ones who in these memorial years, we have just had an agreement that was contrary to our election declarations, and we have brought it to the crisis of the Greek people. We did not say "it's okay, as long as we sit in our chairs", as did the Papandreou government and the Samara government in the first and second memorandums. So what did you say to the Greek people when the troika came and brought the memos? You said unbelievable: "We have eaten them together." And then you thought you were done with this. You then thought that this was your conclusion of the committees of inquiry - which were never made on how the country was led to bankruptcy - that it was the people who asked for decent wages, decent pensions and decent medical care or even that it was because it was using part of the world - the customer networks you set up everywhere. But also for the huge sums that changed hands under the tables, not a word. In the case of suitcases in the Communal Funds, for the 'SIEMENS' suitcases and not a word. For the dance of the messengers and the seashoes by the banks in your parties, no talk. For the money that went from public funds to corporations, with the non-remunerated, of course, no conversation. You have cleared everything with the "we have eaten together" and taken the pillaging of the social state, in any case, of pensions, wages and micronomists, demolished and depleted 25% of national wealth, because your country's GDP has been so low on your day. But you did something else, ladies and gentlemen. Since you were not minded, it never occurred to you that this thing could happen in 2015 - it never went beyond the mind of those leading until then of the New Democracy and of PASOK that there was a possibility that there would be a government of the place without one of these two parties in the coup d'état, in power - what did you do, then? After 2010 - and this may be the biggest crime - when you cut pensions, the party in health continued. The story of CEDEFOP does not end with the outbreak of the crisis and the case of Henry Dunan became during the time when you coexisted PASOK and New Democracy in the second Memorandum. But at the end of the day, you have reason without the hotel owner, because the Greek people have decided that you must leave the country's rule. And I have to tell you that the investigation of these cases was one of the main motives of this decision, one of the main motives. And today, I'm sorry to say, it seems that you're extremely twisted, you're on the ropes, and to get away, you're resorting to a tactic that even a small child can easily decode it. It is the tactic of disorientation, by which, since you cannot defend the transparency and honesty of your own governance, you are trying to put the parties that are ruling today in the same bag, in which you are deeply stuck and say "all of us are the same". I am sorry to say this, but I think you are not impressed by anyone, because it is a common practice. As our people say: 'The thief is shouting, the housekeeper must be afraid.' Unfortunately for you, this policy will not relieve you of the enormous political burden - and for some, possibly criminal, I am not responsible for judging it - of responsibility. To say this in simple words, do not think that with such tricks you are going to achieve the cover-up, the hooding of what happened in the health sector before and after the crisis. I would like to tell you something else, because you like to say that you are pro-European and you were all in the 'List Europe' movement. Would that ever happen to any country or at least to those who are particularly attractive to all of us - not just to say to you - that is, to the countries of the core of Europe, the Eurozone, such as what happened here in the years before Olympiad and immediately thereafter, and not to say nothing and that it is a social phenomenon? Let me make a few references to the substance of these issues which are the subject of today's debate. I read the proposal put forward by the New Democracy, and I must admit that I was amazed. Because the debate is public and our citizens are listening, I will read about what you are writing in there about the issue of 'Dynan'. What you are asking for it to be investigated is - within introductorys - "if the final solution which has been given without a public burden and with the maintenance of jobs has benefited the public sector", and "if the credibility of the proposals submitted for this public institution and the pressure exerted in order to incorporate a public-private institution in the ESS is an option that would cause an excessive and inappropriate burden for the Greek taxpayer". I understand panic and irritation. But by reading these, I realised that you have already started to apologize before the Committee of Inquiry even started. However, you are about asking for honorary plates to be awarded for "Dynan".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u480	Aye, an honorary plaque!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u481	You admit it! Congratulations! You are asking us to give you honorary plaques for the sturdy way in which you defended the public interest! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So what are we talking about? We are talking about a hospital which, until then, has been financed out of public funds, which by some means - we will find out what the committee of inquiry has been, and that is why the committee of inquiry - which has been applied with some tolerance, has been in debt with EUR 90 million. In fact, in 2014, under the government of Mr Samaras, he spent one night in private hands as against 115 million euros, with debts being disbursed, with his permission to apply normally, with his equipment and buildings unfit and, of course, without the public having any right to claim either then or in the future, in any way, his interests. I cannot imagine in which other European countries a public hospital could be given a gift to a private person, and the debts and indeed with 20 million euros to get a steam-driven locomotive. We're talking about one of the best hospitals in the country. Where could this have happened and the stones could not have risen up? You "We - Europeans" tell me which European country could take this? I can also imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that we are - and we are - Europeans, how is it possible after all that you have done in this country for so many years, for you to go abroad and meet the leaders of both parties - that is, the European People's Party and the Socialist Party - and tell them that those who are now ruining the country must go away and you who have saved it all the previous years! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Like they don't know you! As if they haven't gotten you into it! Because I am closely following this debate, I must observe something else. All Mr Vorides said, whose irritation has been understandable over the last few days, is that this outrageous donation has been approved by Parliament, I imagine with some of these amendments that usually go into some irrelevant bill. I'm sorry, but that's not convincing. Let me remind you of something else you're interested in. For your maritime loans, the exemption of bankers - for the sea loans of almost half a billion euro in your parties - was approved by a last minute amendment to the House, but the outcry you have not avoided, as you will not now avoid it. Everything needs to be investigated. The discussion we are going to be deciding today must be very clear about what the public interest was and whether you and everyone who had an obligation to do so. But I am going to make a political comment here. Firstly, the view expressed in your proposal - that, fortunately, we have given it to the hospital, because if it went through the RIS it would cost a lot of money - is unfortunate, it is an unfortunate argument, because it reveals your perception of public health and the social state. Because if there are public hospitals, these public hospitals exist to support the needs of the citizens. Based on your logic, why should we have public hospitals, since insurance funds can go to private homes too? Because that's what you're saying. Just as dangerous as your concept of the social state is, in the end, your perception of the private initiative. Are you defending this kind of private initiative? The one who gets it all ready and free of charge from the state? You know, that's how I get to be very good businessmen. Very good. Very good. Give businesses that have a certain profit, and give them no debts, after you have ensured that debts are removed! This is how each businessman becomes. Is that your idea of entrepreneurship? Second comment. 'Dynan' seems to be the beginning of a broader plan, in my view, which opened the way in the future, so that every public hospital that was in debt - you have done much to have enough debts - can be given 'bire' rather than to a private person. But I thought you were at least more careful about the way you say it and do it. Finally, it appeared from the proposal you tabled that you are not careful. I'm on the subject of CEDEFOP. What do we have here? We have a'magasy' set up within the public sector, without almost being subject to any regulations and any provision in force in the public sector, and for more than twenty years it has been financed by the public sector, without having to display accounting records, without having to keep books, by hiring anyone who wants, by paying whoever it wants and without ever having to carry out internal audits. It appears that it has spent huge sums on campaigns that, not only were they not necessary, but were not within its object, but could have been done at almost no cost, in line with what is in force for the dissemination of social messages. The figures are not small. It's a lot of money. Maybe at the time, when we were used to it, we thought it was small, but it's large amounts. Cases are, of course, in justice, but, regardless of that, there are serious political questions that need to be answered. How was he set up and for whom did he run a public store like this? Who had to check before we came to get this whole story out to light? Who have benefited from this issue and how much has the public interest been damaged respectively? They're serious political questions. I understand that you are not pleased with this debate, but I think you can no longer avoid it. Finally, on the issue of medicines. Data has been filed. During the period from 1997 to 2012, the pharmaceutical expenditure in the country is increased by a percentage. We end up being the first by far in pharmaceutical expenditure in terms of GDP, and the reason is not hidden: it is infinitely the scandals that had seen the light of publicity over the past twenty years and concerned the invoicing of medicines and hospital materials. For medicines the price of which exceeded significantly the corresponding prices in other European countries. For materials supplied to hospitals at three and four times the market price. That was the party. Crazy party, like there's no tomorrow. And on this point, the information on the NOVARTIS case is now coming. Why are they coming? They come because the 'NOVARTIS' case is about Greece, but it affected the European system. For invoicing in Greece affects other European countries and comes from outside. And this scandal from outside, like the 'SIEMENS'. I have to say that on the question of overvaluing medicines, as far as the proposal is concerned, the New Democracy is more generous. It asks to be investigated whether the prices of medicinal products were inflated if the volume of prescription was large and which parameters affected this policy. It does, obviously, because it believes that the responsibilities of the PASOK governments are so great that its own will almost unnoticed. On the other hand, I cannot comment on the proposal put forward by PASOK, in which it calls for the issue of wastefulness and a suspected increase in costs to be considered. At the same time, however, it calls for the policies implemented to eradicate them from 2010 onwards, that is, the period when the crisis broke out and the memoranda came. With one word, PASOK has been trying to balance the party's health costs with the cuts in the pharmaceutical expenditure imposed by the troika since 2010. Except that those cuts were not cuts in excesses, they were not cuts in misery and corruption, they were cuts in the drugs that the retired person needed, which the Greek people needed. But for all of this, I think that we will have the opportunity to discuss the committee in the next few weeks, and I am sure this debate, which concerns the Greek people, will take place with great interest and will be followed by the people with great interest. Ladies and gentlemen, in extremely difficult conditions for the country, the government has done all it can to support public health over the past two years. I do not want to go into detail about everything we have done, because I do not want to abuse your time. I would like to say, however, on the issues of transparency, that in addition to the moral advantage, in addition to the moral demand, the moral right of the Greek people to know exactly what happened, because it paid the marble very expensively, is, as I said at some point in my speech, and one of the main motives, incentives that the Greek people have given a vote of confidence twice to this government and a vote of condemnation twice to the parties that have ruled the place for too many years and have been bankrupt and plundered. I would therefore like to make it clear that it does not concern us if, as you say, the Constitution and the 'democracy of Ministers' Act are obvious or criminal responsibilities are not apparent and whether or not they have been filed. What concerns us and what is our moral obligation is to shed light on everything that is the main causes of the country's bankruptcy and on everything that is also the main causes, perhaps the most important thing, for which you clearly and clearly in front of the eyes of the Greek people are asking for the assessment not to be closed, for the country to go bankrupt, for what it is to be done, as long as we leave here. Because you are afraid of one thing: that as long as we stay, we will be given the opportunity to uncover your things and the Greek people will have the opportunity to judge. Two years before us are enough and we will be able to uncover them and the Greek people will judge at the end of the four-year period who were the ones who went bankrupt the country and who took it out of the crisis and the memorials.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u482	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a minute's attention so that everything can be done properly and quickly. On the basis of the formal, written and written procedure, the Vice-President, Mr Boris, will make the relevant procedure. I want to tell you about the procedure and know it very well. It had been clarified in the morning too. Two proposals were tabled under the Rules of Procedure, because they had fifty Members and more, and a third proposal, before the Conference of Presidents, by PASOK, which did not have the required number of signatures. The President of the Democratic Independence said this and said that Members of the Democratic Independence insist on their proposal. The way in which this is to be expressed is their point, but we recognise, under the Rules of Procedure, that anyone who refuses to vote on the first or second sentence - and I will tell you how they will get in - from the Rules of Procedure, from paragraph 5 and 6 of Article 72, states 'ARTS' in both the first and second sentences.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u483	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u484	Mr. Loverdo, please. There will not be two roll-call votes. There will be a circle where each fellow Member will have the right to say 'NEI' in one sentence, 'OI' in the other, 'OI' in both sentences, 'OI' in both sentences, 'OI' in one or both sentences. These will be measured, recorded and shown, obviously, a result for an examination. I think that also from the parties' positions, because they have followed the whole debate, there is the whole range of thoughts and suggestions on the vote and I think we will proceed well. We can move quickly, because many colleagues want to leave. Come on, Mr. Baroness.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u485	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the proposals for a committee of inquiry which, firstly, the President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras and a hundred and forty-three Members of his party and the President of the Parliamentary Group of Independent Greeks Mr Panagiotis Panagiotis, Kammenos and eight Members of his party, to investigate scandals in the field of health in 1997-2014 and, secondly, the Chief of Anti-Policy Officer and President of the Parliamentary Group of New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Members of his party, to investigate the management and expenditure of public health from 1996 until today. It will be followed by a roll-call vote, which will be held in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. For the economy of time it has already been proposed by the President to vote at the same time on both proposals with a listing. Members will vote separately for each of the two proposals. The first proposal will be that of the SYRIZA and the ANELs and that of the New Democracy. They shall be declared as ‘NE’, ‘OF’, ‘OF’, ‘OF’, ‘OF’, in each of the two proposals. Receiving the proposal of SYRIZA and ANELs declare "NEI" to it. Receiving the proposal of the New Democracy declares ‘NEW’ to it. The acceptances of both proposals shall indicate 'NAH' to both. The non-acceptance of the proposals shall indicate 'OTI'. Refusing votes shall declare ‘APPROVAL’. They are called on the list and for the counting of votes for both motions by the Secretary of Parliament, Anastasia Gara, from the Radical Left Coalition and the MP Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that they have come to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure of the House, letters from fellow Members present on a mission from Parliament abroad, which they shall make known their vote on the proposals for a committee of inquiry. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u486	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u487	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters by colleagues, Mr Zabek Hussein and Mr Evangelia Karakosta, who know that they are absent from the vote and that, if they were present, they would vote 'NAI' and 'OH'. In addition, Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis, Mr Evangelos - Vassilis Meimarakis and Mr Georgios Kasapidis are absent and by letter they know that, if they were present, they would vote 'OHS' and 'NAH'. Also, Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis, Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Mr. George Arvanitides and Mr. Yiannis Koutsoukos are absent and by letter they know that, if they were present, they would vote "PARON". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u488	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the outcome of a roll-call vote on the two proposals for a committee of inquiry submitted by the Members of the Radical Left and the Independent Greeks and the Members of the New Democracy. A total of 279 Members voted. In favour of the first proposal, by SYRIZA and ANEL, i.e. 'NEI', they voted 187 Members. Against the first proposal, SYRIZA and ANEL, i.e. 'NO', they voted 71 Members. Consequently, the proposal tabled by the President of the Group of the Radical Left coalition, Alexis Tsipras and the Members of his party and the President of the Group of Independent Greeks Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and the MPs of his party to set up a committee of inquiry into scandals in the health field in the years 1997-2014 was accepted by a majority. In favour of the New Democracy's proposal, namely 'NAH', they voted 107 Members. Against the proposal of the New Democracy, i.e. 'NO', they voted 151 MPs. 'PARON' they voted 21 MPs. The proposal tabled by the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Members of his party, for a committee of inquiry into the management and expenditure of public health from 1996 to today, is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u490	Ladies and gentlemen, it is my proposal that the committee should be composed of twenty-three members, representing, in proportion to their strength, all the parliamentary groups and the Independents, pursuant to Rule 31 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose to the House the deadline for the completion of the work of the committee and the presentation of its findings to be completed within three months of the committee being set up. Do you agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u491	The House therefore agreed with this proposal. I would ask Parliamentary Groups to send the names of Members to the Committee of Inquiry by Friday 21 April 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u492	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. The debate on the proposals for a committee of inquiry has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-12-S1-commons.u493	With the consent of the House at 21.31 p.m., the sitting on Thursday, April 20, 2017, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
