ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 27-6-2017, the minutes of the PRA's proceedings were confirmed by the Bureau, on Tuesday, 27 June 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Amendments to Law 2725/1999 (A' 121) and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 30 June 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1105-27-2017 topical question by Congressman I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "True problems in the Kythera ferry connection". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 1075/20-6/2017, by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the activation of a decision on pilot study of the Association for Social Control of Argos. 3. Under number 1076/20-6/2017, a topical question by Piraeus II of the Central Association of Central and Eastern Europe Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct risk of losing the tourist season for the ship "VITSENTZOS KORNAROS", which is a subsidised line". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1078/20-6/2017, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: “Action for intervention in Justice by representatives of the Port Body”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 1084-23-2017 of the current question by the Deputy of Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Mikhail Jeleli to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'TAP'. 3. Under number 1035/16-6/2017, the current question of the country's energy stability following the flooding in Amytino was tabled by MEPs in New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the country's energy stability following the flooding in Amytino.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our first question under number 1085/26-6-2017, the first question of the first cycle of the Athens Congress of the Radical Left, Nicholas Xydakis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Employment of Retired Persons". Mr Xydakis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to make a clarification and your political explanation and possible functional solution to a problem that arose during the implementation of Law4387/2016. In particular, Article 20 provides that, for all pensioners who join the ECA, any employment earned them any income, automatically puts them in a process to reduce their pensions by 60%. I understand that in this historic treaty, but also in a normal situation with a smooth demography, which we do not have now and a smooth employment, which unfortunately is a long way from having it, it protects the world of work. However, we have some specific cases, such as pensioners, which for some reason, even for reasons of mental support, go into employment. I'll give you a minimum example. They write a book, write a contract with the publisher, and within one year they will collect it from copyright of EUR 300, 500, 1000 if the book is successful. Automatically, this man sees his pension falling by 60%. To be crushed, in other words, financially. Can we find another provision that allows these people to have this elementary employment, which is part of social and mental health and not to crush their economic part? Recently, when the National Broadcasting Council was set up, we had a similar problem and it was taken care of regulation. Why is the disabled retired person writing a book crushed and all worthy and desirable senior judiciaries and retired scientists invited to form one of the most critically active independent authorities we have tried to help them and others have forgotten? For my point of view, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u5	Minister Petropoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Xydakis, it is true that some things in life have a greater variety than the legislator can predict. However, the issues on which you have developed your question are dealt with with by the thoughts you have also developed. That's what we're thinking. And the government has a sensitivity for people with disabilities, for people with particular disability issues. Already under Law No.4331, the first law to intervene in social security, we have predicted that under no circumstances can those who receive allowances of all kinds or aids and other disability benefits, because they will work either in social cooperatives or in an OAS programme. We predicted allowances or other benefits. We then went further with Law 4430 and said that no pensions will be cut which may be granted to people employed in social cooperatives or cooperatives. That's where that was determined. Subsequently, the Prime Minister in his announcement in October 2016, speaking here on the occasion of the reception of the Olympians with special needs, the Paralympians, announced employment measures, strengthening the recruitment rates through ASP to 10% for the sufferers themselves and 5% for the people of their family, related to brothers, wives and more specifically identified in the law. With Article 20, in fact, that is the case. However, Article 11 of Law No.4387 provides that there are no matters relating to the payment of pensions to disabled persons before the new disability framework is laid down. This, with the participation of the ESRA, the Federation of Persons with Disabilities, we are working on it, it is almost complete and we will proceed with the establishment of the frameworks. In the meantime, in accordance with Article 11, we have not affected any pensions paid. After all, it is also laid down by Law No4387 that any pensions paid are not affected, but also young people who have come up, in accordance with Article 11, are not affected before the framework is seen. I inform you that according to this framework in which we are guidance, not only will we not cut off, but we will strengthen such aspects that we need to protect, because we have the social sensitivity to do so for people with disabilities. Obviously, I fully accept your observation as correct, that it is not possible to prevent the spiritual production of works into logic that if it writes a poem, which may be the best poem left in history - Gatso wrote "Amogo", a poem and we all know that one poem - it is not possible to say to the other "do not write anything, because you know it will cut off your pension". In spiritual creation there can be no barrier. And there is no case at all for us to have a pension cut due to copyright. I would like to tell you that in a very clear and unequivocal way, because it is something that I thought is right from the outset. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the Secretary-General.]] I'll stop now and I'll tell the rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am politically covered by your answer. However, I have a comment to make on the technical issue of the functionality. Date of birth: (a) Approximately 1964. It shall end June 2017. The arrangement should have been made in the first six months or in the first nine months or in the first year. We are now in the second year. The disabled pensioner, who has written a book or participated in a board of directors and received 200 allowances for one year, does not feel safe in this job. I have brought you the example of retired judiciary officers for the National Broadcasting Council. There's actually been a white strike. If we want to talk politically, in a critical area of public life, this malfunction, this ambiguity of the law 'frozen' the operation of the National Broadcasting Council and 'floats' the souls of tens or hundreds of pensioners who could have earned them 200 or 500 euros. So together with social sensitivity and political perception, which you instantly show, this problem should be solved tomorrow. Your message from the Chamber today must be broadcast and understood by the beneficiaries. But they must have an explicit commitment with a timetable that the regulation, the circular, the ministerial decisions will now come out. They can't wait. They cannot conclude any relationships in their lives because they are not covered by the law. The political question I repeat is covered by what you say. Operatingly and by service there is no answer. There's no cover. I'm asking, based on the evidence I've collected from disabled retired people, the service and operational coverage, the standard coverage. So, as Members of Parliament, as a parliament, as a legislator, and good for us, if we can "bless our beards" - try to unblock the National Broadcasting Council, let us unblock the lives of hundreds and thousands of our weak fellow citizens now. And not just with a political commitment. She's satisfying me. I want the operating solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u10	Mr Xydakis, as I said before, there is a scientific committee that investigates pensions for disabled people. It is a very difficult task, because different social security institutions have had quite different conditions for dealing with disabled people. In a different way, disability was calculated, with different levels of pensions, the needs of these people were addressed. Homogenising these terms in a fair way is not an easy matter. So, yesterday, before this committee, involving scientists, university professors, people with disabilities, the stakeholders themselves, could not work. In the meantime, for the entire period that has elapsed, nothing has been touched and no one has a pension problem, since the law expressly provides that the provisions applicable to each institution, as foreseen, apply. So there's no question of insecurity. There is no reason either to worry or not to do anything with the fear that this act may have any effect - I mean in the economic field. There was no matter. It really didn't exist and it didn't exist. If you bear in mind even a case that was the cause of one's own failure to legislate, you should tell me. You won't find one. It is absolutely certain, because the law has provided for it completely. The subject you said about the National Broadcasting Council is not the same. That's another matter. This is not a disability-related issue. This is a provision, which has always been the case - and from an old point of view - which provides that people who take up such positions of general government are completely losing their pension. What am I supposed to do now that the PSE is referring to the general government? Let it be excluded. Let the House see it. Is he coming out? Is he coming in? It is not a question that one can only face in terms of insurance law. According to Law No.4387, those who take over a general government are completely losing their pension. This is generally accepted. If anything we need to see here, it's another-class thing. However, in matters relating to disability, in fact, to your question - and you will see it - the government is dealing with these issues and has gone far beyond what the legislator had gone before our own government. We're creating even more positive terms. I am not saying favorably, because people with disabilities must be at the heart of our attention. It's not just favourable, it's necessary. It is necessary to see in an effective way the protection of people with disabilities. And we'll do that, you'll see it, and especially for people with mental illnesses in a way that is very modern and progressive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. It is known in this House that the fourth question under number 1767-10-2016 of the cycle of petitions and questions by the Independent MEP II of Athens, Mr. Theocharis, the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the New Karval fertiliser factory in Kavala, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The fifth question under number 1107-27-2017, topical and urgent question by Ms Pireaus of the Communist Party of Greece, Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "PROVET's employees will not be discussed after the Minister has been consulted with MP. Also, the seventh question under number 1108/27-2017 of MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the reconstitution of the Labour Housing and Labour Housing Organisations, will not be discussed after consultation of the Minister with the MP. Immediately now we will discuss the third question with No 5397/515/4-5-2017 question and request the submission of documents of the reporting and questions of the Independent MEP II Athens by Mr. Georges - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the financial support of pensioners. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Last year's pension and insurance law decided to make a contribution in favour of pension organisations so that their aims can be met. This contribution is a misappropriation from pensioners and amounts to EUR 0,20 per main pension. It is also voluntary - I would call it a character - in that the pensioner can refuse payment by making a statement. At the same time, however, there was provision for the adoption of a regulatory decision by the Minister to determine the conditions and procedure for the distribution of the retention. I note that this illegality is not State aid, it is a contributor to pensioners and must therefore be in the form of remuneration. In practice, the following was noted: while the Minister had the power to adopt only a regulatory decision laying down detailed rules, it adopted a decision of a specific nature that was withheld by all pensioners in the second half of 2016 due to the application of the new law was awarded to only three pension organisations with the exception of all others. I have therefore pointed out the question of the application of the law in itself - and this is my question, Mr President, whether it will be withdrawn, Mr President - so that justice in the pensioners' field can be restored, because in the way that all pensioners are dispensed with to the extent that they are now incapable of working. They have no other resources. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Secondly, with regard to those who receive the retention reasonably, depending on the category in which the pensioner belongs, they will want to go to his institution, primary, secondary, tertiary and not to others unrelated to him. I would therefore ask that this arrangement be restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Carras, I strongly underlined what you said that unions that did not receive this kind of aid are at risk of not operating. I would therefore conclude that you accept the measure as a positive one. You accept it as a positive one and your remarks are simply a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u15	I'm not rejecting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u16	Therefore, your relevant reports of unlawful actions are put in the light of what I will say to you. If you really insist, we should discuss this even more thoroughly, if you like, to explain to you outside the procedure, which is very short in time. Unfortunately, all these bodies, which have no other way of surviving, as you have noticed, were not able to undertake a financial support for their operation. We were interested, and we are interested in showing our social sensitivity, especially in parts of the population that I do not consider and do not regard as government as being the strayers. They may be retired, but they're not part of life. We want our pensioners to be able to organise, have their own organisational structure, to manage their issues. And that is the way our government has introduced. We had no other possibility, because the funding had been abolished for several years, and we have reinstated this process, as you have said, voluntarily, with 20 minutes other than those who would like them not to be kept 20 minutes, for their own reasons. They have the opportunity in the platform that exists in the FBI to make the statement that "I don't want you to hold 20 minutes" for the reasons of his own, subjectively, that he doesn't want. However, this award, according to the law itself, was made to those unions, to those pension agencies which did not have other provisions - and this was provided for by the law - a contribution they received. In fact, some unions - I do not want to mention them now - so that we do not start talking about why and how, but they are proven - refused to enter this procedure because they receive a greater contribution with other provisions. In other words, there are collective labour agreements - I should like to say to you - or regulatory annoying agreements, where far higher amounts are retained and as a percentage of pensions, wages, and which are served by much better contributions. They did not want to be subject to the relevant procedure. It has, of course, occurred - to say the whole thing very briefly, Mr President - and the interest of federations and businesses, which in the first period did not show any interest. They manifested later. That is why we did not continue to grant, because what has been given is in the first semester. There's a second semester.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u17	You have a second language, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u18	Let me say this, Mr President. These contributions from the second semester that have been collected do not distribute, because we have invited everyone to be on the same table and this meeting has been held, we have also expected their memos, which they have delivered - in the last few days, to reach their agreement in the best way and with their own agreement to make the best distribution. That's it, and we'll do it in the next few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u20	Minister, as I have said in my protology, I am not rejecting the measure. I consider it positive for pensioners to operate. I have my objections to the way in which the Ministerial Decision to distribute was adopted. I expected a Ministerial Regulatory Decision to come out, which would categorise the beneficiaries, so that it could be studied by the OAED, which has the appropriate competence, what contributions each club gave, so that in the form of a recompense it would be returned to the institution to function. It is therefore clear that the regulatory decision, as provided for in Article 102(3) of Law No4387, has not yet been adopted. I'll wait for her extradition. There's got to be something else on the way. First of all, you said something I would disagree with: 'They did not show any interest.' But is the Ministry expecting an application for expressions of interest? Let's map who the beneficiaries are, get to know them. Let's do this, let's know who they are, because, as you said, Minister, you didn't answer me who the beneficiaries are. Secondly, I would like another point to be taken care of if you were kind enough in relation to that distribution that took place in the first half of the year. I am not one of those who will say: 'Take back the money from the pensioners' unions. I shall say something else, however, to balance the distribution of the second half. That is to say, to restore that difference, which was deprived in the first half of the year. Why am I saying this and insisting on it? I accept that pensioners are not distracted. I accept, however, that today, with the pension cut that pensioners have reached and reached, if their associations have their logistics infrastructure and financial resources through contributions - these 20 minutes - they can claim, we must all support it - if they can claim - so that these claims can improve their position. I think, therefore, that the imbalance that has existed, that the beneficiaries should be mapped, that the Ministry should not wait for an application of interest to be made for this reason, that if we stick to the logic of the request for interest, then we will now accept that they do not want, since they do not want to have the interest and the 'do not want' is not the law. Individually, the law stipulates that pensioners do not want to be withheld. The unions, primary, secondary and tertiary, do not have such competence to declare to the Ministry. With regard to contributions from other sources of collective bargaining, to which you have referred, I would like to remind you that these are contributions from private law and are outside insurance law, in the sense of Law No.4387, so we must not say that they receive the unions by way of genuinely voluntary benefits which are from the collective agreements of the current members, because we are also voiding the purpose of the law. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Carras, this is not about contributions paid by retired people. They are contributions paid by pensioners on the basis of annoying agreements concluded several years ago. For example, I can tell you that the Federation of Pensioners Banking Organisations has a very large contribution rate from its members. We therefore do not interfere in these matters in a way which is inappropriate to the regulation itself, as well as the provision that we provide for is available. If the person himself called to pay 0,20 does not want to do so, he shall be deleted. It is not compulsory to participate, it is voluntary and has that purpose. The right provision in the law, that we are talking about pension agencies that do not otherwise receive contributions, wants to cover such cases and, indeed, at a higher level of pension organisation. In other words, for retired people retired from the IKA, taken by their federation, it is allocated to all unions of its own area covering unions in this area, as is the Federation of Civilians. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, why does the ending bell ring from now on? Don't I have two more minutes now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u23	I had omitted to put time. I'm not wrong with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u24	Okay. Just so I know how much time I have.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u25	There's an expensive rip-off of time!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u26	Okay. I just saw that the ending bell rang earlier. The Federation of Civilian Officials and the Federation of Workers in the Security Body therefore disperse this amount in general. Therefore, we considered the spectrum to be covered. However, there were unions and federations that claimed not to be covered. That is why we have seen this again, we have invited them all together and they will make an agreement between them. There's no record of union records. Because you understand as a lawman what I said, that we thought they were all covered, because it is a'umbrella', these federations, it may happen that we are not all covered, and we told them to create a register of pension organizations with the agreement of everyone. It's not easy for us to fix it. It's not easy to know from the prefecture records, because they're bourgeois clubs. It's not a trade union book, all written in it. Then we'd know. We cannot know about it in pension organisations. Whatever research we do, we cannot know. So they must be of interest themselves. The debate that we are having here in the House raises the issue even more so that those who consider themselves to be subject to it can move forward. We have no other way. There is no register of pension agencies and we now want to create it, but we must all help to ensure that there are and that there are no omissions. The opinion you have just given was therefore from the point of view of the OAED. They weren't given without an opinion. Everything happened in the anticipation of the law, and what is to improve, we will do it and we are already doing it, in cooperation with the stakeholders themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too, Minister. The third, with number 1083/21-6-2017, topical question of the PASOK Democratic Complex - DIMAR Mr. Haras Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "In an absolute dead end the work of extending the National Gallery", will not be discussed, due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. Also, for the same reason, the first question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Aheas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Andreas Rizzoulis to the Minister of Culture and Sport will not be discussed, regarding the actions required to complete the digitisation of the movable monuments of Greek culture. Finally, for the same reason, the second question will not be discussed under number 5243-27-2017 of the cycle of petitions and questions by the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Aristides Baltas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the Solidarity Fund for Officials of the Ministry of Culture. However, the presence of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, allows the second question to be discussed under number 1104-27-2017 of the second cycle of the MP Argolidis of the New Democracy, Mr.Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the need for immediate measures to strengthen the olive producers due to the damage to the watering of olive trees in Argolida. Here, Mr. Andriane, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. As you know, Minister, as you are well aware - because you also had the opportunity to see the damages in the vicinity, visiting Argolida - the recent unusually high temperatures that occurred in Argolida in May, in excess of 40 to 41 degrees Celsius, have caused disastrous consequences for the flowering of the olive trees, and so that there is no further year’s watering, with the expected production to have suffered a significant blow, to such an extent that in many cases production is expected to be nonexistent. I would like to stress here, of course, that in recent years the damage to production has become more and more frequent, as the recent quartzing in the region of Argolida, which has affected oranges, apricots, peaches, pears and olives have had fruit. In many cases, in fact, the herbal capital was destroyed. You have recently responded in writing to a question from me concerning the damage to olive oil, since Argoldi has suffered another year of continued reduced oil production due to the effects of the weather conditions, which creates a major additional problem for producers, who are now not only able to meet their obligations towards the state, but are also facing serious survival problems. You said, therefore, that these damages could be included in the State Aid Programme (GMP) on conditions, of course, which include, among other things, the production of the year of damage, which has been damaged by type of product at regional level by more than 30%. I think you and your services have seen it yourself. I believe that this is the case. You also say that this will be documented by a committee designated by your Ministry. I am asking specific questions here, Mr Minister: has a committee been set up? What was recommended? What did he decide? I do not want only the predictions. Of course, the predictions are what you are talking about, but we want specific decisions and concrete answers, and that is what farmers are waiting for today. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u29	Good. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a maximum of three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, we have recently met in Nafplio, where the damage we have been discussing is not the ones you mentioned in your question, because these damages concern May and are related to flowering. So, I mean, I mean, we had other damages later. You realise that in such a process we need to see what damage is due to the cause you are talking about today and what other damages we have seen when we were down. Why am I saying we need to see the cause? Because we need to see whether the insurance risks for these causes are compensated, yes or no. As for the cause, which was the quartzing - what we have seen below - there are procedures. The ELGA will estimate the loss of income and compensation will be paid when the growing season is completed. What you are talking about now relates to the well-known issue of inflammation, fruiting, unsatisfactory fruiting and may be due to a number of causes, from adverse weather conditions, from incomplete flowers to incomplete fertilisation. It's too many causes. There is, however, the fact that these are not covered by the ELGA as an insurance risk. So, in this case, what remains with us is and see if we can cover these damages in the future with a new insurance risk or see, at least now that this study is not available and the procedure is not completed, if it can be covered by the well-known agricultural procedure through an APA. So when the process is completed, we will submit a dossier to the European Commission, which will document the causes, the meteorological conditions, what a loss on an annual basis there is in income from this olive oil crop and what we are asked for in order to draw up the relevant dossier. It is certain that in all these cases there is approval by the European Commission, they will return to us in the state budget, and since the state budget gives us the opportunity, we will pay the corresponding compensation. What is at least applied to date is in a period of around two and a half years - I want to be honest - that this whole process will continue to cover the losses from the state budget. I repeat, however, one thing: because it is damages which a piece of damage will be compensated for by the ELGA and the other, what will be lost, which will be demonstrated by the evidence of comparison with the previous years, can be covered by the well-known procedure through PESA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you did not cover me, and I think the farmers who are listening to us have not been covered. Of course, the procedures require two or two and a half years to complete, but in these two or two-and-a-half years how farmers live, how will they pay 100% of the tax the state asks them to pay? And all of this comes after past losses, of course, because, as you know, in recent years, there has been a problem with olive oil production, we have reduced oil production, and this seems to be evidenced. I am referring to Argolida. So all this time how will they pay the contributions to the FBI? How are they going to pay HISBIA? How will the fertilisers pay? How will they pay PPC's bills? These liabilities have a specific payment date. In these two or two years or two, how will these people pay their obligations in the state, how will they live, how will they grow again, how will they have the courage to find the money for the new growing season? The damage is great, Minister. The day before yesterday, we discussed the damage from the hail. I would remind you, however, that when you had come to Ermion, we also discussed the issue of bad fruitage, when we discussed the issue of the Rider. So this issue we discussed on a previous visit a month ago, before you visited Nafplio, when we put you, like the Ermion Agricultural Cooperative, the huge problem that this region has, since oil - as for the Epidaurus region - is their basic income. Minister, of course the procedure through PSEA or through the state financial aid that we are discussing will take the two, two and a half years this year. But what measures will you take to relieve or facilitate farmers? Can you as a government ask for the 100% advance of the tax on an income that is not proven? I want an answer for that, and I think you should consult the Minister for Finance. We need to find a solution. We cannot ask for advances or taxes on incomes that do not exist. The situation in the agricultural sector - you know that very well, Minister - is really very difficult. They're on their limit. They can no longer survive, so when cultivation is destroyed in successive periods, they no longer have the powers to live and grow. That is why the government has to find ways to make it easier. Minister, contact the Treasury. How will they pay the FBI or their insurance when they do not have income, how will they pay the premiums in the ELGA when they do not have income? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Colleague, let's put them in a row. The damage from the insanity of May and the damage from the quartzfall we saw the day before yesterday is covered by a different starting point. Therefore, the quartzing of things will be associated with the income of the year, which will be finalised after five to six months at the end of the year. There the ELGA will come and will give the corresponding compensation in order to substantiate the damage suffered by the quarantine. As for the part concerning the loss of income due to the incarnation, which we will see if the piece covered by the quartzing is removed, we will have to haunt the dossier and submit it to the European Commission. It's time-consuming. However, there is this: in recent years the double control carried out in the European Commission has been stopped and we are talking about an audit which has reduced too much time. From there on, that there will be a weakness of farmers' incomes to cover the obligations you mentioned, I also told Nafplio - and I repeat it now - that they have to get into the process - starting with local government - a state of emergency in the region. This means that, in cooperation with the region, the municipality must document the emergency situation and, if this is accepted by the General Secretariat of Protection, there is another procedure that reaches the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance will say that for these reasons, the tax obligations, the payment of HISPIA etc. will go a little further, so that Greek farmers can respond. However, I would like to make one thing clear to you, that in this process of damage assessment we are making great efforts, particularly at a time when difficult weather conditions and the consequences, which the European Union itself does not question at this time, those of climate change in rural activity. It's a huge issue. We will also see it through proportionate studies, which we have already entered into the process of completing. I repeat, however, that any proportionate study will cover an additional insurance risk, in fact it will be accompanied by the corresponding premium. This must be done clearly, because ELGA is a fund that operates clearly in return. Whether there has to be a state aid or a contribution from another sector in this part, it is another order and another matter of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u35	The sixth question will be discussed under number 1102-27-2017 of the President of Heraklion, the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of: ‘ Current rural development issues in Heraklion Prefecture (‘Forma 6’, Messara Agricultural School, water resource management)’. Mr. Igoumenides has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am going to talk about a number of issues of vital importance to the rural development of the Heraklion Prefecture. I refer to the famous 'Porma 6'. I'm getting to the questions right away. One thing is that they lose rights for at least 2015 and 2016 twenty-eight thousand farmers. First of all, an advance was made, first of all, against - let us describe it as - their rights in 2015. What directive has been implemented and given this advance? Secondly, the finalisation of rights changed the data and the advance was taken back. Based on what directive was taken back? Thirdly, there has been a directive since December 2013, Directive 1307. What changed and lost the rights of 2015-2016? Furthermore, the way proposed by the Ministry - I am referring to the Ministry's press release of 15 June 2017 - refers to the average crop that exists, and it is known that the compensation was different depending on the type of crop. I imagine the agency has that data. So why should it be given on the basis of the average and not on the basis of the cultivation of each farmer? One final question on the subject: The request for support from the national reserve for 2017, as stated in the Ministry's press release, announces - is it a question of the farmers to whom it is addressed - any judicial claims of the rights of 2015-2016? I come to the second matter very quickly, at the Messara Agricultural School. I know that there are advanced discussions and contacts with the Ministry of Education - some of them I have also participated - to upgrade this school with an integrated programme at all levels of education, PSAL, EPAS and the transition to public IEK, apprenticeships, with synergies with the corresponding productive structures of Crete. I would like to ask where we are. I close with the question of the use of water resources. I am referring to the works from the east to the west of Heraklion: The Amira dam in Vianno, the Lake River dam in Gortina, the intervention on the Platy River and the facilitation of the Faneromeni dam by the extension of the irrigated dam - the port tank - in any case, in the southern part of the Municipality of Minoa Pediadada in the region of Garipa. The question is, where are we in relation to these projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u37	The Minister has the floor to answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, you put three serious issues - one in the whole of Greece and the other in Crete - which, as you can imagine, will take too much time, I would say parliamentary control procedures at the question level. The first issue, therefore, is what you have raised about lost rights, a major problem which has troubled the Greeks over the last two years. Is it solved? I'll tell you he's been partially solved. However, it must be made clear that these rights were lost in the process of negotiating the previous government, the New Democracy Government and PASOK, at the time the new CFP procedures were completed. In other words, they were not aware in the two years when they were negotiating that there would be this particular problem. You will tell me: 'And when did we realize the problem?' The problem was that when we came in December 2015 to give the provisional rights, namely the advances we gave, but in fact it came to light after this problem, when we wanted to finalise the specific payments. In accordance with the arrangements made in the relevant negotiations, there were two thousand and eight hundred farmers who mainly had an affair either with an employee or with a tenant of land and rights, mainly of a domestic nature - that is, parents were transferred to children - while the arrangement concerning the negotiation of the new CAP required the transfer of ownership. There, then, was the problem. As you can see, we understood it when we went to apply what they had to take according to their rights. So we started all the time from December 2015 until now, because the mid-term review will now be completed. It is the term omnibus, known to Greek farmers. So this process has been a negotiation for over a year and a half. Now, after too many discussions in both the Agriculture Council and the meetings I had with the Agriculture Commissioner on his visits here and in Brussels, we have tried to convince them that there is a great injustice and that this problem needs to be resolved. In fact, I would say that Commissioner Hogan has responded and in our perseverance he has proposed a solution. The solution, therefore, which proposed and which will be incorporated into the mid-term review - closed this issue - was the lost rights to be dealt with within the existing institutional framework, because the existing institutional framework cannot be violated until at least this programming period is completed, to make use of Article 30, according to which the grant of payment entitlements to farmers is granted in return for specific disadvantages, such as the one that has arisen from the national reserve. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] You realise that the proposed procedure - I said it before and again - does not mean that there is a complete restoration. What is there is is that from the two thousand eight hundred farmers, two thousand farmers from 2017 onwards - because for the previous years we could not ensure retroactiveness with the current framework - we will give their historical rights, putting the average on the roof of the regional average...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u39	The rest in your dentistry, Minister. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u40	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's a piece of two different questions. I just want to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u41	I'm saying this to make use of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u42	From now on they're in a normality. We cannot retrospectively cover the loss that has occurred.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. On both points, I unfortunately did not hear the Minister's answer. Maybe it'd be better if I heard her. In any case, let us look at the issue of 'Forma 6'. It's three questions. I accept and am politically covered by your answer that the responsibility lies with the previous governments. From there on, there is a more specific question. Even for the ministers of that government who were negotiating, is there any agency that did not anticipate it? What service did not then inform the ministers? Are there, in other words, responsibilities for this absurdity we live in, for farmers to lose their rights and what are they? Secondly, we all know - and you have rightly said, Minister - that the regulation does not allow rights to be granted to previous years. However, there is a direction towards farmers to claim judicial claims and they are expected to be justified by the court. In this case, if we have to apply the decisions of Greek justice, we will give the rights by paying a fine, which we want to avoid and do well. I agree, in your political direction, that our country should not pay fines, but we will not avoid it if we have judicial decisions. So, instead of subjecting these farmers to this suffering, is it preferable to take judicial decisions out of the middle? As far as I know, other countries, such as Germany, France, have paid their farmers their rights by paying the fine in the European Union. Let me close by saying that, from what I remember in our first discussions at the Ministry, the original figure was twenty-five thousand twenty-eight. How did they become two thousand eight hundred? So, where's the rest of them gone? As far as the rest of the issues are concerned, since I have not heard answers, I hope they will proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u45	Mr Minister, now give the answer Mr Igoumenides has not heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u46	That is why I told you, Mr Colleague, that we need a lot of time to discuss. We cannot go into a procedure and, despite the regulation, proceed with the specific payments, when you all know that the first problems we have found, which we have had for two and a half years and which we cannot resolve, are those relating to fines and financial corrections due to the mismanagement of aid over 1.5 billion and at the same time recoverys. In other words, the European Commission obliges us to take back from farmers, from partnerships of another EUR 1.5 billion. You realize that when you're in a related negotiation, you can't risk something that will actually cause you problems. Since we have raised this issue, we have reached it in discussions at the Council of Ministers and have been in the mid-term review, we can only go under this agreement. From there on, it is the right of farmers in any way to claim these sums.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u47	Minister, if I may, because it is a question concerning farmers, what I asked at first is: says the farmer "Let me go testify for the rights of 2017...", as you said and the Ministry's announcement. ‘Will they appeal to me for the 2015-2016 judicial claim, because I appeared from 2017 onwards?’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u48	Okay. Minister, go on. Rise and shine, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u49	As you can see, I respond politically. Legally, whether there is such a procedure or not, it is good to put the question to our own legal advisers at the Legal Council of State to give us the answer. From there on for us, as you can see, guarding after all that you said about scandals, etc. is very important. Here we have had a number of problems in the management of Community aid and we are trying to respond as well as possible. As far as the Messara Agricultural School is concerned, we do indeed want to highlight the school. We're also in a consultation with the Ministry of Education, so that we can also house the PSA Moires. There is one question, because there are not so many students we want. It's also the object that has to do with greenhouses. We will broaden the possibilities, but, of course, it is one of the schools we want to keep and, above all, we will give the opportunity to make a substantial contribution. As far as water resources are concerned, what I have to tell you is this: we are in one hour's time now after completion of the heresy which was in place for the water costing projects, and we could not, because there is a commitment that if this process does not go ahead, we cannot accept requests for improvements or move on to these projects. To make things clear, costing has nothing to do with the fact that farmers will come tomorrow to pay water. It is a process that needs to be done. When this process is completed four to five years later, then the political leadership, the government that will exist, it will decide whether to end or not. But this must be completed. So, at this time, we have several requests that come for accession to European works. We are in the process of proclaiming the measure. We're not ready yet. It'll all be appreciated. It is certain that Crete is an area that has huge problems and needs, especially for irrigation issues. We'll see everything together. There is therefore a relative line on the part of the Rural Development Programme as well as the Public Investment Programme of the Ministry of Infrastructure. We are in agreement, especially when it comes to major projects, to see how we move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much. The eighth under number 1100-27-2017 topical question by the Independent MP of Achaias Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, entitled “Gryza clouds” for Patras - Pyrgos. The project has entered new adventures..." will not be discussed due to the absence of Minister Christos Spirtzis abroad. For the same reason, the tenth will not be discussed under number 1070/20-6/2017, a topical question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To take immediate measures to compensate for earthquakes and damages in Lesvos". For the same reason, too, will not be discussed in the 15th under number 980/7-6-2017, the timely question by the MP Serres of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleighs to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “The creation of three new toll stations on the Promahona - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres”. We will now discuss the first question with number 1086/26-2017 in the second cycle of the Hercules MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "To immediately designate the new Board of Directors of the Mediation and Arbitration Agency". Here, Mr Vardakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this Government has, from the outset, made its position and its objective in the negotiation on labour, to withdraw basic collective labour rights, which have been levelled over the first two memorandums and not to allow any further deregulation on the labour market. Of them, OMD. We are aware of the efforts made by previous governments to abolish the institution of arbitration, placing restrictions on all the responsibilities it had before the Memorandum Laws. The OPCW is the body responsible for the smooth functioning of the labour market. It is a field of understanding and finding solutions between workers and employers. On 30 April 2017, the term of office of the Board of Directors of the FMD expired without taking over the new Board of Directors. Once there is no board of directors, there can be no procedure, no administrative decisions, sanctions, mediation, arbitration and, in general, no question can be dealt with unless the new Board is established. The involvement in the operation of the OPCW is therefore causing many problems, particularly for workers and for businesses. Minister, because in recent years we have received and been very disturbed by primary and secondary unions, because I personally ask fellow Members of the Anti-Population Committee who have needed Ministers, Deputys in previous years, and who are "for fleas" asking questions, and indeed time-consuming, who have been on island for such a serious issue, let me feel that there is some kind of feasibility, possibly by the social partners. So, in order to clarify the matter, we ask you the specific question: why has the new management board not yet been designated, and what steps has the Ministry of Labour taken to set up the new Board of Directors of the OMD?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u52	You were clear. Mrs. Ahchioglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u53	Mr Vardakis, thank you for your timely question. Let me put the data down, so that we can understand the context of the debate a little bit. According to the law, the composition of the Board of Directors of the OMED is as follows: Four representatives from the associations of the national social partners of employers, namely GSEE, BSE, ESS and SETE, and four representatives from the employees, GEEE, namely, a president with his deputy. According to L.3899/2010, the term of office of the members of the representatives of the social partners in the OMD is three years, which can be renewed once, i.e. the same persons, appointed as representatives of the national social partners at the Board of Directors of the OMD, can be only up to two terms of reference of representatives to the OMD. On 28 April 2017, the term of office of the members of the Board of Directors of the OPCW has expired. Therefore, the specific representatives of the national social partners have spent the maximum of the time the law allows them to be representatives of the LFSD. Since 17 March, the Ministry of Labour has asked for their new representatives to be designated. In other words, he sent a letter to the national social partners and asked for their new representatives to be designated. This is our document from 17 March, which I will present in the Minutes, namely the letter from the Ministry of Labour to all the national social partners, to indicate their representatives quite early, quite before the end of the term of office, so that there is no problem with the operation of the Mediation and Arbitration Agency. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Efi Ahtsoglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Unfortunately, only some of the social partners, i.e. the EUSY and SETE, pointed out their representatives. The rest of the social partners did not indicate representatives, resulting in the end on 28 April in the term of office of members and since then in fact there has been no Board of Directors at the Mediation and Arbitration Agency. With this development, we sent again a letter on 30 May to all the social partners, which called on them to immediately indicate their representatives because, as we have noted in our document, it is of paramount importance that the Agency is operating both for the reconciliation of workers and employers and for the functioning of collective bargaining and collective agreements. Please note that on 23 June a document was sent by the Economic Office of the ODR to the social partners, which told them by the Agency's financial manager that if the Board of Directors is not established, the ODR cannot even pay the salaries of its staff, it cannot actually have any function and has informed everyone of the end of the mandate of the Houses of Mediators and Arbitrants on 31 July 2017. So the question you ask me is crucial. It is obvious that, on the part of the social partners, there is a clear delay in the nomination of representatives on the board that hampers the essential functioning of this key institution for industrial relations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, Minister, I sincerely regret hearing your answer and I think we should take some initiatives. I deplore the fact that those who have to ensure and even try to ensure that whatever labour rights have been left by the memorial policies, unfortunately, are deaf. And if that is the case, Minister, I believe that you should take the initiative in cooperation with the Group of the European Parliament, with the whole House and either denounce or take the action they need to establish, if not yesterday, the Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u56	Clear and concise.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u57	Let me fill this out a little. I have not given the Minutes, and I would like to give it, the second letter sent by the Ministry of Labour on May 30, 2017 to the national social partners, to designate their members again, reminding them again that it is key to progress in the operation of the Mediation and Arbitration Agency. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahtsoglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The national social partners have replied by letter to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity - some of the national social partners - and stress that they consider that the existing legislative framework that limits the term of office of members of the board of directors, namely the term of office of their representatives, is an obstacle to the trade union freedom that is to say the fact that the law says that the persons concerned, the representatives of the national social partners, can be at the Board of Directors of the FIFG for a maximum period of six years, constitutes a violation of the trade union freedom and calls for the law to be changed. For our part, on the one hand, I should like to clarify that we do not consider that there is a violation of trade union freedom, because a law sets a maximum term of office for an organisation of such importance, such as the Mediation and Arbitration Agency, to be quasi-judicial. In other words, we cannot see how this constitutes an insult to trade union freedom. Nevertheless, the key to us is to make the organization work. We have stressed this many times in our documents and in our communication with the national social partners. Obviously we are open to dialogue, to see changes or to discuss their issues, but, above all, the OMD must work. And here I must clarify that being open to dialogue does not mean accepting eternal administrative boards or accepting extortionary practices in order to change things, by blocking the functioning of such an organisation. I have arranged a meeting with the national social partners on Monday morning. Among the main topics to be discussed is the matter of the Mediation and Arbitration Agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u58	We now move on to the debate of the twelfth under number 1072/20-6/2017 on a topical question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Syntagaki to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the redundancies of six workers and external threats of the company "BIOKALIERGES OF SERVICES S.A." to workers. Here, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. It is not only six redundancies, it is twenty-two redundancies from the company "BIOKALIERES OF S.A.". That was right, of course, but there were twenty-two redundancies in the course. It is a standardization and marketing company with exports to other countries, particularly Germany. What is the main shareholder of this company ‘BIOKALIERGIES OF S.A.’? It is the Metropolitan of Ierapptni and Sitia with 44% of the shares and the former administration 33%. And I say 'former administration', because after the new and amidst conflicts between big shareholders and managers, formerly and now, this new administration fired these six workers on 31 May, three under a fixed-term contract and three other permanent ones. Who, like, who? Those who took the lead and founded the business club and the next, June 1st, send out-of-work and tells them: "You are either complying with your hat or your hat at home." In total, these gentlemen fired twenty-two workers and claim in her report that there was no redundancies. The company’s new board of directors invoked financial problems of the company, maladministration and mismanagement effects from the previous one in order to justify redundancies. The company, as was seen in the tripartite at the Ministry, is a profitable company with significant turnover. The turnover of this company is up to EUR 80 million, with a net profit of EUR 17 million - they say it themselves - in an enlarged market, especially in Germany. It turns out that the company does not suffer financially from the fact that the redundancy of the twenty-two workers, formerly made redundant, by the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives in Sitia. He even hired another twenty - two as seasonal, of course, because the turnover is increasing. That is to say, they could actually work at the company and the former and current workers, because there is work. But what is the real reason for redundancies? To get back what the workers had won, not to set up their union, trade union, because they had satisfactory wage contracts far beyond the main. These are what the employer hates and he wanted with fire and iron to get them back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u60	The rest in your dentistry, Mr. Synhonaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u61	We ask you: after all this development and the multi-day process and discussion with the Ministry will the illegal redundancies of the twenty-two workers be withdrawn? Will L.1264 be applied, which provides for the protection of the first twenty founding members of the first under the establishment of an operational association? Will the threats and terrorism of the employer stop? Will workers return to work as a whole without any adverse change in contracts and wages? And, of course, to stop all kinds of interference with the trade union right to establish the business union. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u62	The questions are clear. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Parliamentary, on the issue of the employees of this company, the 'BIOKALIERERS OF S.A.', two trialogues have been held at the Ministry of Labour on 14 June and the second on 20 June. Let me make it clear from the beginning that the Ministry's position has been upheld. In view of the positions expressed by the employers' and workers' side, the Ministry considers this to be illegal redundancies. That, in other words, there is here under the cloak of the voluntary withdrawal of a complaint hidden, the termination of the employment contracts of the fifteen workers who have taken trade union solidarity action with the six other workers who have been made redundant. In any case, for the fifteen workers we have an obvious case of complaint, which is illegal for at least three reasons. The first reason is that there are obviously no substantial economic reasons justifying such redundancies. The second reason is that they are punishable redundancies due to trade union activity. So obvious reason for illegality. The third reason is that, for the fifteen, the redundancy payment has not been paid on the grounds of the alleged voluntary withdrawal of workers. The Ministry has activated all the control mechanisms to substantiate what I have just told you, this position which it has already established and to impose the relevant sanctions. We will take advantage of all the opportunities available in the current legislative framework to protect workers' rights, particularly in a case such as this, where we have a punishment of trade unionism and collective organisation. Every practice which hampers the trade union activity of our workers is against us. We will fight it with all the means and tools we have. You will allow me to say a few words about what the Labour Inspectorate has done in this particular case. The Labour Inspectorate, following the request made by the original six redundant workers, carried out a work dispute. The two of the six employees were also members of the five-member board of the operational association. At the time when the request had been made for a work dispute, and the remaining fifteen workers had taken trade union action, - they were working for the six redundancies of their colleagues - the company sends a document to the fifteen workers who tells them: "If you do not come and continue to abstain from your work today, that means, for us, an explicit statement of your will not to work and it means an explicit declaration of voluntary withdrawal". The Labour Inspectorate, at the time when this complaint was made by the workers, saw that the fifteen workers who had returned to work on the same day they received this document, obviously fearing the end of their employment relationship, did not allow them to enter the premises. On the other hand, there was a judge outside the firm who provided them documents which said that, since you did not come immediately to your work, it is considered that you had taken a voluntary leave and posted in the "ERGAN" form allegedly voluntary removals of workers. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u65	What you said, Minister, I know them because I was present. That day the police, the waitresses, the outside workers couldn't get to work, I was there. In fact, I spoke to both the workers and the employers. What's the factory doing? What he does is, as a means he uses, to break down the workers. In fact, he used as a siege of the fired, the former employees of the company "BIOKALIERES OF CUSTOMS". Because that day you say, where were the workers outside the gate and announcing them with the outlets 'or comply with the operation or are you leaving', on that day they brought the workers concerned and put them - be careful - to work on what day? On the day of the Holy Spirit, while there was agreement with the fired and the employer that on that day they would not work, that the operation would be closed. However, the information workers went outside the gate and saw the other workers pass, i.e. the sanitary workers from the former Sitia Association, and go to work. That's the way it is, and say what the employer wants. I did learn that at the tripartite meeting that took place, they were very destructive, and they did also call on you, the Ministry, that is, they do not know very well and that they have worked the legislation and they know it better than you. But what does that prove? It also demonstrates your responsibilities as government. Because the ergonomie favoured by all the anti-corruption arsenal that you and the previous governments have successively legislated, comes and rubs its hands and disembarks labour rights, violates trade union rights, trade liberties. So where is L.1264 running anything? It's no big deal. It's not enough of their nerves. They've come from above. I read the tripartite and says there are no redundancies, so they are not entitled to compensation. But we, he says, will give them some crumbs, so as a sign of recognition of their services. Aren't they embarrassed? But what do you take on these issues? What position are you taking? Because it is not enough for the Ministry's views that the procedure followed by the company is illegal and abusive, as stated in its tripartite practice. The evil would be for such an intensified intensified method of employers to say that it is not illegal and abusive. The Ministry's commitments to activate all the control mechanisms for imposing administrative sanctions on the company are hollow. What mechanisms? What mechanisms are you talking about? Those who are on an open line with businessmen, informing them everything so much about the legal framework that exists for its implementation? Those who advise businessmen, how will they defend their interests in order to legally reduce labour costs? But it's a proposition. The Labour Inspectorate has gone. They wrote it in their old shoes. And what happened to the Labour Inspector? Is it a challenge, therefore, to invite workers to bring an action to the Higher Labour Council, knowing that there is much worse progress with recourse to the Higher Labour Council, and why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u66	Good. All right, Mr. Covenant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u67	Allow me. Ten seconds, you're interrupting me. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u68	I allowed you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u69	From your Memorandum of Understanding to Partners and the Association of Greek Industrialists was the abolition of the Minister's veto on redundancies, giving the competence and approval of collective redundancies above the specified limits to have the upgraded Labour Council fully. In other words, you are calling on them to resort to a Higher Labour Council which, based on your laws and the Memorandum of Understanding, in essence people cannot find their point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u70	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u71	I would like to say that there are two procedures followed by the Ministry of Labour and two possibilities. The first is the work done by the Ministry of Labour with the tripartite reconciliation and the interventions we have there and me and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Labour. The second procedure is what the Labour Inspectorate is doing with its on-the-spot checks, the labour disputes it carries out and the penalties, the penalties and the fines it imposes in the event of infringements of labour law. For what the Labour Inspectorate does, you will allow me to disagree with you. I think you should also judge on the basis of his speech, especially in the last few years, the sanctions which he imposes, the improvement that workers see as a result of the intervention of the Labour Inspectorate. Indeed, his capacities are still limited. The framework we received is not just a framework for deregulation of the working relations between 2010 and 2014, but was also a framework for a substantial deterioration of the Labour Inspectorate and the deprivation of key tools in both human and legal capacity. Nevertheless, the Labour Inspectorate is being upgraded, and I think this is starting to show its results. Our political will to conflict with the large employers' groups has already appeared in the case of banks and the imposition of very high fines on banks. To date I do not remember any political leadership that preceded it, to have done so. It was obviously not then that the employers were good and decided after 2015 to become bad. Obviously there was a different political will at that time and there is a different political will today. On 30/6, there will be a difference in labour from the Lassithi Labour Department. In the meantime, however, there has been a tripartite meeting with the Ministry of Labour. The company's representative, as you mentioned, justifies the company's actions, saying she thinks its actions are correct. It considers that there is a case of voluntary withdrawal of workers and that there was no legal position of employment, a legitimate trade union activity. Employees have denounced the company's vengeance and false portrayal of voluntary departures. As I have said from the outset, the position of the Ministry of Labour - I am making it here, and I do not think I could have been more clear - is that we have a clearly illegal attitude. We have a case of obvious redundancies and not voluntary withdrawals. We shall take advantage of the means available to us, for the sanctions that can be imposed on this undertaking, which is clearly acting illegally. It is precisely the means we have and you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u72	You mentioned it in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u73	Obviously, the statements on voluntary withdrawal are considered to be inappropriate and we will take advantage of all the possibilities we have in the existing context.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u74	The sixth, with number 922-1-6-2017, topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "The World Bank "characterizes" the Aegean in Turkey, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Ammanatidis abroad. The second question under number 1103-27-2017, first question by MP Ioannina of the New Democracy, Konstantinos Tasou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Lugian guard in the villages of the Municipality of Pogonios Ioannina”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. Nor will the third be discussed under number 1079/21-6-2017, a timely question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the protection and safety of the people of Acharnes, due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. For the same reason, the fourth question under number 1080/21-6/2017 will not be discussed for the first time by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The Roma have become an illegal man. Also for the same reason will not be discussed the sixth question under number 1087/26/2017, first question by MP, Piraeus, of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the uncontrolled action of the hooded anarchists. The same applies to the fourth question, under number 1082/21-6-2017, on the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Continuing terrorist attacks against the platoons of MMs from paramilitary elements". Now we will discuss the tenth third with number 1071/20-6/2017 a topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Security of payment of the remuneration due, guaranteeing all insurance rights and continuing employment of the employees of the "ATHENS LEDRA" hotel by the new business group that acquired it." Here, Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you should be aware that today we will be following our debate and representatives of the two hundred and thirty-three-workers from LEDRA MARRIOT and waiting for you to answer the questions we have raised. The decision of the property of ATHENS LEDRA is known a year ago to close the hotel with 75% completeness and to fly the road to 30 employees and their families. This caused the workers' fighting attitude. For a year and a half, they have fought hard, expressed the solidarity of the rest of the workers, so that they are here today claiming the payment of the due and, above all, the right to work. But they also call upon all the insurance rights, Minister, which are not guaranteed in your own decision, especially in the area of employment commitment, to justify only five months and not all, as the Citizens' Counselor says, which I have given you all the relevant decision. You, however, have decided five months to serve the needs of the employer, which does not want to cost much. From the auction process, which the creditors have known and appealed for, another business group emerged from the fifth in order of auction. Workers continue and have the same requests today from the new business group that has emerged and, of course, ask the new owners - 'HINES' - the company is called, we do not know who will be behind him in order to be able to operate the hotel - to pay what is due to the employees, to pay all the insurance rights, i.e. contributions from all these months and to continue the employment of all the employees in the hotel and under the new property, whenever the hotel operates. I think that these demands are the absolute responsibility of the government to implement and we are waiting, Minister, for you to answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u76	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u77	Mr Katsotis, the Ministry of Labour has been next to the employees of ATHENS LEDRA, I think, in practice with certain moves and interventions. I have met the workers and I have also met them, the Secretary-General of the Ministry several times, and he has taken concrete action in the pre-existing form, at least, of the employer company to implement labour legislation, but also concrete steps to strengthen the workers financially who have indeed been in an unfavourable financial situation for many months. The actions taken by the Ministry are the ones that have the scope to do and concern the control of complaints of infringements of labour law, the imposition of administrative sanctions, and the transmission to the Public Prosecutor of dismissals of the employees of the hotel's association for the non-payment of the remuneration. This is an opportunity for the Labour Inspectorate and we have exploited it. The financial assistance of EUR 1 000 has been granted to the workers with an undetermined employment relationship and must be paid to the others. I know it's been delayed here, but it'll be paid to the rest of us. The Ministry also acts with all the means at its disposal to ensure that workers do not lose any insurance rights arising both for the period of non-paid remuneration and for the period of employment. In particular, we have held four trialogues, two work disputes, two company audits, two fines of EUR 15 000 and EUR 6 000 for non-paid remuneration and, as I have said, a complaint was sent to the public prosecutor concerning the failure to pay the fees. We will obviously continue to monitor the development of this case, both in terms of auctioning and in terms of the continued operation of the company in its new form, and in this context we will make use of all the possibilities that we have to mediate so that workers can continue to have jobs in the new business as well. You know that from the legal framework, as it stands at the moment, we have here the case of an undertaking that is auctioning its real estate, we have a takeover from a new group and operation from the new group. For our part, we will intervene to put pressure on working relationships to the fullest possible extent in the new pattern.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u78	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u79	Madam Secretary, the workers here are. I do not know if they were satisfied with your answer, because even the recruits have been taken and it is not an easy auction. You know very well that you yourself as SYRIZA Government have ranked the workers in a more unfavourable position than they were. Of course, these workers go under the former regime. However, I say that you as a government through the amendment of the bankruptcy code have classified the workers in a more unfavourable position. And you changed that to the worst. So this issue of payroll is a demand, and the workers are fighting it. They don't stop the games to get all of their jobs. As far as the issue of the commitment is concerned, we want you to commit here today, Minister, because Mr Petropoulos asks questions that we will not recognise more than five months of insurance days because of a commitment, that you do not accept the conclusion of the Citizens' Counselor, who invites you to insure workers throughout the course of the promise and to commit, also here, to doing so, because you have responded negatively to this. So what should the workers do? Should they wait five months for insurance due to the attachment? Are you condemning them to be uninsured? You have great responsibilities, Minister. You can't at least throw this finding of the Citizen's Counselor into the ballot. It is the insurance rights of workers who claim them and you must answer whether you will, in fact, recognize all these insurance days of the workers. On the issue of succession, of course, we know about the auction, we know about the 'HIMES' which company it is. But, beyond that, it cannot with such tricks allow employers to be exempted from rights, with established rights. It is clean and we know it well, as was done in Sitia, that employers want new workers, with EUR 580 that you have set as a minimum wage, without applying the collective agreements, which is your responsibility now through the fourth memorandum, until the end of the programme. You know very well that in hotels from the ten thousand to a hundred hotels they apply the collective agreement from what you receive from the social partners, the SETE that you now have in all the institutions. Only ninety hotels therefore apply the collective agreement. So you understand that this is what employers want, not to apply contracts, to be 586 the wage, not to have a fixed daily working time, to have flexibility in working time and, of course, to get young, handsome and handsome and to get rid of these elderly people, who are not in line with this job, he says, of the worker in tourism. They're not gullible, handsome and presentable. Madam Minister, I think your responsibility is great. Employers may do their tricks, but they take advantage of all this legislative framework that you have done so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u80	You will hear the answer from the Minister, Mr Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u81	And you haven't changed anything. Not a single "and" has changed. And not only have you not changed, you have made it worse, unfortunately, for workers for their rights all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u82	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u83	Mr Katsotis, the legislative framework I think you are aware of at what time it has been dismantled. It was between 2010 and 2014, with at least ten laws and an act of ministerial council that deregulationed the framework, as it had been made in all previous years. It was this government, which attempted through a long-term negotiation when they accused her of ideological obsession to restore at least basic institutions of this framework. He managed to restore the basic principles of collective bargaining for August 2018. The ideal is that we could have brought them back tomorrow. We are negotiating with the International Monetary Fund and the European institutions, who want a deregulation labour market to move forward because they see it. These are our creditors right now. It is in this context that we have negotiated, that is what we have achieved. Now, in relation to LEDRA, I would like to tell you whether our interventions are visually protecting the interests of the workers or not. ECA would not remove the surcharges, the company's debts, so that the company can move forward, make it easier to find an investor, carry out this process, so that the scheme can continue and continue, with the interventions we are going to take, the workers' jobs and the next period. In relation to the auction today, if I'm not mistaken, it's the day when the lenders' announcement is over. Therefore, it is only after the end of today's day that we will have the exact amount of the company's debts as well as the identity of its lenders. And the ranking board, if I'm not mistaken, is built within 20 days. The auction procedure with the rules with which it is implemented is classified as one third of the bank’s claims. I therefore appreciate - but this remains to be seen - that there is a great lack of room for satisfaction for the workers in the rest. Employees have reported themselves to have won, dismissal compensation, late pay and holiday and leave allowances. And the fulfilment of their requirements will proceed through this process. Now, with regard to the other issue you are talking about, the adjuvantment of work and the labels, if I am not mistaken, it was from our own government that actually extended the period and recognized as meaninglessly for workers who have been on work and from where they were for a month it was extended to five months. Let's see it again, see the possibilities we have. It is acceptable that what you say in relation to your proposal extends this time period for working time for workers. We will see the relevant possibilities we have and the economic possibilities. However, it is the government that extended the period. I do not think we should doubt at least our basic intentions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u84	Eleventh question under number 1030/15-6/2017 of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Help at Home", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Skourletis. Fifth under number 1106/27-2017 a topical question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, on the delays of the organised tomb programme in the Region of Crete, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Kokkali The ninth, under number 1031/15-6-2017, is a topical question of the second Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The Municipality of Kavala legalizes the pseudo-state in tourist exhibition in Constantinople", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Interior, Mr. Skourletis. Series is the fourteenth with the number 1073/20-6/2017 timely question of the second question of the Achaia MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problems of workers in the professional refrigerator industry of "FRIGOGLASS ABEU" in K. Achaia, Achaia, Achaia. Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor to develop his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u85	‘FRIGOGLASS ABE’ is a known multinational company belonging to the David family group, which also has the ‘COCA-COLA 3E’. In other words, we are not talking about a small enterprise, which has already started its productive activity from Lower Achaia and has now been extended to four continents: Europe, Asia, Africa and America. During this extension, that is to say, in the context of the restructuring of the company, it made redundancies of a hundred workers from the Lower Achaia plant in 2009, using the voluntary employment method, telling the others that "here will develop the plant with pilot projects, with pilot products, with pilot professional refrigerators", that it will design the new production process, in other words, new models. What was the result? That for the seventy remaining workers on a two-day rotation basis and in 2013 in the collective agreement signed, the employer imposed a 26% reduction in their wages on the substance. Despite the new wage reduction, this process has continued. Although the new collective agreement was signed in March, which said that the proper functioning of labour relations would be maintained, at the end of May the company returned, requesting a three-day three-day work for six months, resulting in a 66% reduction in the wages of workers. You understand very well that, under international development and expansion conditions, it was paid by the employees, and today, when the company is shrinking its production activity worldwide, again, the employees are "paying the broken" and that choice. Of course, the tripartite meeting took place at the Ministry, but the outcome did not change. The employer does not accept five-day work and continues to keep rotating work three days. Practical measures we want from the Ministry to ensure the permanent and stable work of workers, with full wage and insurance rights at the "FRIGOGLASS".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u86	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u87	The Ministry of Labour has already taken steps to deal with the problems of workers in the FRIGOGLASS company. The problems arise mainly because of the firm's decision to unilaterally impose labour, as you have said, a practice that is not the first time it has been used. The attitude of 'FRIGOGLASS', if we want to see it more carefully, involves serious abuse. The company is moving within the law in that it takes care of the time periods laid down by the law for the use of the rotation measure. It is not, that is, a case of obvious violation, as was the previous one we saw with Sitia. However, it has very strong characteristics of abusive exercise of the right to overturn work. The representatives of the Ministry, precisely because they formed the image of this abuse of a right, asked the company not to put the measure into effect. Moreover, the workers themselves said that the consultation carried out on the enforcement of the measure was at least incomplete and largely pretextful. The company maintained its position for reasons of limitation of its economic activity. The Ministry's audit mechanism, namely the Labour Inspectorate, has already been mobilised to control and implement labour law and we will exhaust all the margins available to find the reconciliation solution, but also to impose any administrative sanctions. The Labour Inspectorate did an on-the-spot check and, indeed, the company had announced the rotating work on its staff board. The company said, as I told you, that the measure was necessary, due to the reduced orders it has and the accumulation of stocks. The President of the Association said that the operational collective agreement had been signed a short time ago, in which the workers had accepted a normality in working relations now. It seems, however, that the company has once again imposed rotary work. However, no request has been made to the Labour Inspectorate to carry out a work dispute. I will call again on the workers to think of submitting a request for a work dispute to the Labour Inspectorate. Because, you know, with the data on the means, there are little cases which, with the interventions of the Ministry or with the interventions of the Labour Inspectorate, there is a positive conclusion for the workers. The completely recent example of migrant workers in the "AGRICULTURE" operation is a characteristic example that, when there is synergy there and the intervention of the state mechanism, things can go better for the workers. This was the case at the "ELONATA" hotel - if I am not mistaken - in Crete, where after the intervention of the Ministry they were revised, the redundancies were taken back and the workers were re-entered, or as is the case of WASTE SOLUTIONS, this recycling company, in which the employees continued, although they were workers of a previous company and the new company continued their work relations, after the intervention of the Ministry and the tripartite reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u88	Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u89	Minister, you said yourself that we have here, on the part of the employer, an abusive exercise of the right to impose a rotation of work and that the Ministry's will is not to put this into effect. The practical result, however, is that the employer continues rotating work, writing in the past its footwear the Ministry's mood and will. Here is a more comprehensive issue, which highlights the responsibilities of the government and of today and of the previous ones. The current government has legitimised what the previous ones have done with regard to anti-terror legislation. Is it possible to sign a business contract in March, putting in place means that the stable employment of workers will continue on a five-day basis and then two months later the company will say that it does not have orders today? I mean, wait two months to see if he's got orders. And what business is this? Multinational company is directly linked to ‘COCA COLA 3E’. So if it is to apply employment on the basis of the orders it has, then you understand very well what we are talking about. We are talking about working relationships - tire, employment, which will be adapted to the specific needs of the company. And that's the provocative, Minister. When the operation develops, it fires workers. Now that he's shrinking the activity, he's retiring again. Only the employees lose, the company wins. And here's the real problem. All the rest, if the Labour Inspectorate goes, what will happen, they have no practical effect. Because, in practice, the keys to the economy are made by capitalists. They do what they want and you just do the curators, at best in cases, when you have shaped this anti-grassy, anti-grass frame, when you keep it, when you legalize it. What's the practical result? The practical result is that at the moment, workers at the 'FRIGOGLASS' - to the multinational 'FRIGLASS' - have a 66% reduction in their earnings. They work three days a week and cannot meet their needs. And they're hostages in this process, hostages to what the company wants, to the company's immunity. And the company is now negotiating with the banks to restructure its portfolio, moving towards increases in its share capital, all this on the back and at the expense of the workers. How, then, will there be a replacement of the wages lost by the workers in this period - and they will lose - how will the employer be stopped? He'll stop in practical ways. Otherwise, they stay on the list, Minister, the Ministry's intentions and intentions. We didn't come here to judge the intentions of the Ministry. We came to judge the practical result. And the practical result tells us that the Ministry considers the application of rotation work to be abusive and the company, a month and a half now, continues to apply it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u90	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your final and final answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I think I have spent the time of my first placement, just to show that the interventions of the Ministry of Labour, with the data available, with the specific constitutional framework of the civil libertarian state, in which we are...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u92	Change it! Change the data!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u93	It is the constitutional framework with which you Members are also elected and we are becoming government, it has specific limits. And yet, with its speeches, there are many cases where we have good results. That is why I have spent the time of my first placement, to talk about cases of business, in which, obviously, with the collective action of the workers, but also with the interventions of the Ministry or the Labour Inspectorate, there were positive results. The action of the Labour Inspectorate on Christmas and Easter led to thousands of workers getting the gifts of the holidays, which were not taken by the employer's arbitrariness, which was dominating the labour market. I would therefore not say that we can thus zero off the interventions made by the state mechanisms. On the specific issue we are discussing, the conclusions reached by the Ministry of Labour concerning the use of the rotational labour measure by the company are three: the first is that we have a situation here, which is abusive, because, among other things, we also have a breach of the principle of proportionality. So what? The company’s gain from imposing this measure is very small, in view of the costs incurred in imposing the measure for workers. With quick calculations, the company seems to save around 400,000 euros, a small amount from the imposition of the labour rotation measure, while it is disproportionately heavy for workers. The second is that in the bilateral and tripartite consultations that have taken place, this operation does not provide an integrated medium-term plan, which shows, in other words, the use of this measure which allows it to use, but does not abuse it - and here we are talking about abuse - how it will structure business and activity in the future, so that there is a normality in terms of working conditions. The third and most characteristic feature of the Ministry is that it seems that through the use of the labour rotation measure, the company actually wants to make wage cuts, which is why it is using this measure. Instead of going to an operational collective labour agreement and to an operational collective bargaining, to rethink working conditions and wages, it is using the measure of rotating labour to ultimately lead to a reduction in wage costs. These are the main conclusions drawn by the Ministry of Labour from the trialogues. We reiterate that we are using all the means available to us so that there are no abuses. I also propose that the Labour Inspectorate should make a difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the former Minister, Mr Ioannis Papantoniou, of any offences in connection with the conclusion of contracts of armaments of the Ministry of National Defence, will present its findings, which will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-29-S1-commons.u96	With the agreement of the House at 11.45 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 30 June 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
