ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to make some announcements to this House: MEP Mr Panagiotis (South) Mitarakis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad, on the basis of Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, from Wednesday 2 August 2017 to Monday 7 August 2017 and from Monday 21 August 2017 until Friday 25 August 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, the President of the Independent Greeks and Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos asks for a short-day absence abroad from 25 July 2017 until 31 July 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Similarly, former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 25 July 2017 to 31 July 2017 in order to go to China, following an invitation from the Prime Minister of the People's Republic of China, Mr. Lee Ketsiang. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u5	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is tabling its report on the proposal from the President of the Parliament of the Greeks: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Government Gazette 51 A/10.4.1997) and Part Parliamentary (Government Gazette 106 A'/24.6.1987), as applicable'. In addition, I have the honour to announce to the House, firstly, that the Ministers of Finance, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, National Defence, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Culture and Sport, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Administrative Reconstruction, Deputy Ministers of Home Affairs, National Defence, Economic Affairs, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic and Cultural Affairs have tabled a draft law entitled ‘Adaptation of Greek Legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2016/881 and other provisions’. Secondly, the Ministers for Health, Home Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Health and the State Secretary of Finance, tabled a draft law entitled "Reform of primary health care, urgent arrangements of responsibility of the Ministry of Health and other provisions". Thirdly, the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Economic and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Deputy Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Finance, as well as the Secretarys of Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Religious Affairs, tabled a draft law entitled "Organisation and functioning of higher education, regulations on research and other provisions". Finally, the Ministries of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Economy and Economics, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, submitted a draft law on 21-7-2017 entitled "Electronic system for the allocation of television advertising time, amendment of Law 3548/2007, setting up a register of regional and local press, special marking of a bar code in printed publications, creation of an institutional framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in Greece and other provisions". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our first question with No 1247/18-7-2017 in the first cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Direct need to support the areas of Mani affected by the fires". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, will answer. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, we have recently had two catastrophic events in our country. We had the 6.4 degree earthquake on the Richter scale in Kos, and we would like to express our sympathy and support for the wounded in the area. It was, of course, preceded by the destructive fire of 3 July in the Municipality of East Mani, which burned large agricultural land, but also passed through settlements, home areas and some houses in the local communities of Kotra, Kokkala, Skoutari, Nymphio, Luke, Flomochori, Parasyrus, Pyrichus, Himaras and others. The damage caused to both plant and animal production in the region is large, and there is also a strong blow, apparently, to the local economy and to the region's entrepreneurship. Since, in accordance with the provisions of Law 2556/1997, the Minister for Finance is authorised to extend, by its decisions, the time limits for payment of certified debts to public and third parties collected by the DU in exceptional cases, such as the one we are also discussing, in accordance with paragraph 5 of the fifth Article of Law 2275/1994, the Minister for Finance again by decision of the Minister for Finance, published in the Official Journal of the Government, may, in exceptional cases of flood or other disaster earthquakes, suspend the collection of outstanding public debts, ask which of the above measures you intend to take in order to relieve residents of the affected areas and other measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much. Please, the Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u9	First of all, I would like to say that the political leadership of our country and also of the Ministry of Finance have shown their sensitivity in the cases of regions affected by natural disasters and extreme weather. I, too, would like to speak on behalf of myself, since you have mentioned it, and I would like to express my support for it, but also for the Ministry of Finance, in the presently tested earthquake of the people of Kos. We all believe that, with the help and the immediate response of the government, the island returns to normality. Regarding the question you have asked, Mr Arahovitis, already in areas of the Municipality of East Mani, for example in the local section of Kokkala, in the local section of Kryoneri, the local unit of Gythios and Smenos was given by POL 1137/2016, due to the heavy rainfall of 7-9-2016, prolongation and suspension of certified and due to debts up to 7-3-2017. In addition, according to the existing institutional framework, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the compensation of undertakings with 30% of the damage to building facilities, machinery, raw materials, goods and lorries of public and private vehicles completely destroyed, which have been affected by natural disasters and disasters, apart from earthquakes, through the adoption of a joint Ministerial Decision of Finance, Economy, Development, Infrastructure and Transport, with specific conditions. According to information from the Department of Social Assistance of the Ministry of Labour, which are affected by natural disasters, financial and other aids, such as aid for repairs to a main home, replacement of a building, disability, or natural disaster, are granted. In order to provide such aid, the natural persons affected shall, in order to become beneficiaries, be obliged to submit an application to the competent municipal authority within two months of the date of the event. In accordance with the legislation in force in the affected areas, however, the committees set up by the mayor's decision to record and assess damages shall immediately proceed to inform the citizens of the general restoration measures which may be necessary and of the deadlines for their submission. The responsible agency, as we have been informed, has not yet received any requests from the Municipality of Eastern Mani. Also, according to information from the Department of Main Insurance of Wages and Disease of that Ministry, in the context of the relief and support of the affected enterprises, employers or insured persons, who have a professional establishment or activity in areas affected by natural disasters or disasters and have proved to be damaged, there are facilities for the payment of insurance contributions to insurance institutions. In addition, the Development Plans and State Aid Department of the Ministry of Interior informed us that a decision has been adopted to recover revenues from central autonomous resources of the year 2017, according to which it was allocated to the Municipality of East Mani to cover fire protection actions EUR 63,800. Also, from the programme to prevent and deal with damage and disasters caused by natural disasters, the above municipality was financed with a sum of EUR 100,000. The General Secretariat of Public Investment and the ESRB of the Ministry of Economy and Development has informed us about the existence of a European Union Special Solidarity Fund, which can assist Member States in cases of natural disasters with serious consequences for their natural environment or economy. Also, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport's Rehabilitation Department is responsible for restoring damage to buildings following fires in cases where the affected area has been included by a joint ministerial decision in the Ministry's damage recovery programmes. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] In order for the Agency to draw up the joint ministerial decision demarcating the affected areas, a request from the regional unit or region shall be made, after prior to the loss of self-consciousness in the affected buildings. It should be noted that the rehabilitation measures are taken if the disasters caused are of a natural catastrophe and affect wider areas and not individual construction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u10	Dear Minister, we've been over time. If you want, you can continue in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u11	I'll be out in half a second, Mr. President. In this case, the Political Protection Directorate of the Peloponnese Region in writing on 5 July 2017 communicated the incident to the service. Subsequently, the Civil Protection Directorate was asked to send it a comprehensive table of the findings of the autopsies in the affected buildings in order to consider demarcation of the affected areas and their inclusion in the Ministry's damage recovery programmes. I put forward the relevant response documents from the Ministries. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If I don't abuse time anymore, I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Arachovite, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. You're right, Minister. Indeed, I would say that the sensitivity, speed and directity that has been displayed in the floods - because the region, unfortunately, has been hit for a second time in a year, we have had the floods, as you said - is a given one. However, as you said, there is a request from 5 July from the region. However, you mentioned that there has been no request from the municipality for the integration of the region. This is something that the municipality must manage along with the local authorities, along with regional government, so that accession can take place to the benefits of the laws that you have mentioned, that it does not become an empty letter, despite the will of the government. In other words, such local actions must also be taken. After all, the Ministry of Rural Development has already announced from the second day after the fire, the payment of exceptional financial support for the purchase of feed to farmers in the region, who have lost their pastures and warehouses. However, this presupposes the necessary action by the local authorities. We hope that these, in addition to the regional demand, will be completed immediately in order to adopt the joint ministerial decisions provided for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Arachovitis. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u15	Indeed, Mr Arachovitis, the municipality's request should be made after the area has been declared emergency. First, this decision has to be made and then the municipality's request has to be made. However, I will continue with some other issues concerning the Ministry of Rural Development on the fire that took place in July 2017 in the wider area of the Municipality of East Mani. Damages were caused to farms. The damaged area is thirty thousand acres, forest and cultivable. In particular, we had damage to herbal capital, mainly olive trees, fixed capital, warehouses and stable products. For these losses, direct labels were made and initial requests for injury were submitted by the producers. The records of these damages will start next week for fixed capital and stored products and later for vegetable capital. Subsequently, losses of fixed vegetable capital and of stored products, provided that the conditions required by the State Aid Regulation and the Community guidelines on State aid to agriculture and forestry are met, will be included in a State Aid Programme, the responsibility of the CECF, which will be submitted for approval to the relevant Ministries and the European Union, after the end of the anti-nuclear period. The corresponding aid will be paid to the beneficiary producers after approval of the programme and expenditure by the Ministry of Finance and in any case after confirmation of the recovery and compensation of the losses. Following the adoption of the Joint Ministerial Decision of the Programme in FEK, ELGA will make a communication and invite the producers concerned to submit the request for damages caused to its livestock farm by the above fire, together with the relevant supporting documents referred to in the FEH of the Programme. The aid will be paid after the completion of the procedure. It is noted that the aid for the PES programme is State aid coming from the state budget and paid for the purpose of maintaining agricultural activity, as you know very well. It is for this reason that they cover certified costs, i.e. the compensation of losses by producers, and then the relevant aid is established by the geotechnics concerned. That is why there cannot be any specific timetable for payment of aid, because that is also dependent on the time when the producers are to recover the losses, as has been said before. In addition, following the adoption of the new European Union's State Aid Regulation, the time-limits for approving the programmes are very short on the previous programmes, so that all the procedures mentioned above can be shortened when the aid is extended or paid. Finally, it is noted that damage to livestock covered by the ELGA’s Animal Capital Regulation has also been caused by the fire. These damages have completed the assessments. The findings will then be communicated and the procedure for the payment of compensation to the insurers will be followed. In conclusion, I should like to point out that, as you mentioned in your question, the Minister for Finance is authorised to take relevant decisions suspending the recovery of outstanding debts to the State for up to six months and regulating the payment of such debts for up to twenty-four monthly instalments. Law 1284/1982 extended by its decisions the time limits for payment of the certified debts to the State in exceptional cases. In view of the above, we expect this request to be made to our Ministry for the declaration of the affected area in an emergency, in order to take the above measures, within the framework of our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much to the Minister. We are now moving on to the first with number 1245/18-7-2017, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of National Defence, on "Proposal for the exploitation of the former Military Hospital 409). The Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Vitsas, will answer. Mr. Katsaniotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, thank you. Mr. Minister, in the area of western Greece and the Ionian Islands there is a series of military formations, educational and operational, such as Araxos, Andravidis, SETTEL, KETCH, Mesolonghi, as well as a series of teams, such as large police force, firepower, port, EMAK, retired persons, as well as seated. You understand that we are talking at the same time about a number of thousands of people who need annual or biennial, based on their service, passing through specific medical checks, as well as a number of needs they have and their families. All of these are called upon to come to the military hospitals in Athens, depending on their specificity, and to have a cost for the state with road sheets and a personal cost of their own in relation to the economic situation in which we live. At the same time, in Patras there is the former "409 General Military Hospital", a hospital that even now in Patras is called "the Military Hospital". Immediately after the earthquake of 2008 and until first he hosted some clinics at the hospital "Agios Andreas". These clinics have already been transferred to St. Andreas. There's a need for building. There is a need for it to be shaped, but it really is a building in which, after Athens, Thessaloniki and Larissa, an important military hospital, on the one hand, would help the region, on the other, would dismantle the hospitals of Athens. I would like to ask you at first if you intend, with regard to this hospital - which belongs to the Ministry of National Defence through the TECHA and was actually used for some time by the hospital "Agios Andreas" - to study whether such a military hospital in Patras is really needed, which will serve the active soldiers, the security bodies, the firefighters, the guerrillas, the entrepreneurs, the ports and their families. I also ask you - if you intend to see this as a possible possibility, as a possibility - if some economic studies can be carried out, to see whether there is really a possibility at the moment, or whether the state is in the interest of such a logic, and whether it is financial instruments that can be found. Finally, I would like to know if there is really no such approach from you, what do you intend to do with this property belonging to the Ministry of National Defence?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much Mr Katsaniotis. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Vitsats.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsaniotis, let me begin by quoted a little history. The case of the performance of the “409 General Military Hospital” is not since 2008. It was attributed by a decision of the Management Committee of the National Defence Fund - I would remind you that, if I am not mistaken, the chairman of the National Defence Fund was the late Andreas Papandreou - in 1983. Since then, it has been attributed to the hospital "Agios Andreas", which, because I too happen to have some relationships, I know what it is. The 'Christmas Camp' was then given. The hospital is typically with all the buildings. Of course, it was temporarily attributed. It was not complete concession and ownership. In April 2017, the Ministry of Health with relevant documents released these facilities, when it relocated these sections - and it is understood that it also relocated the equipment of these sections - to the main area of the General Hospital of Patras. Then there is a decision by the governing committee of the ETHA, the National Defence Fund, and these days are to be signed the delivery and receipt protocol. I'm telling this background to see that it's a short time - because you don't know when - to have a whole thought. However, there has been a debate with the OHIM Health Department in this case. And not to hide it that your question also caused this debate. So far there has been no study, nor has it been part of programming, for two main reasons. I don't know what's going to happen from here, but I'm going to tell you your second question. One reason is that over the years, no one has come, would say, as an urgent need. I'm not saying there's no need. You mentioned two formations that are quite large, the Air Force and the Dry Army in Messolonghi. The others are dozens of people. As far as the returnees are concerned, care has been taken to ensure that they are served in both the public and university hospitals in the region anyway. And, of course, all these years have improved a lot - and especially in recent years - and the transport in the area, so hospitals are not as far away as they were. So one is that. The second is the economic issue that exists. Besides, you're not talking about tomorrow morning. You're talking about an economic study. We are talking about millions of euros, we are no longer talking about a little money. And the third is the question of staff who, if we did so tomorrow, means that we would remove staff from existing hospitals, which would reduce their capacity, since existing military hospitals have to tell you that they have a reference to some six hundred and seven hundred thousand beneficiaries. So that's the thing. Now, what can happen? Let's just let's let's leave what's gonna happen to my dentistry. However, at the moment there is no programming for such a study. We recognize and know the problem and see what we're going to do. I'll tell you right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Katsaniotis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u21	Mr Minister, on the one hand, I would remind you that the first time we discussed here, we had something good. A debate was launched so that the EMCDDA ambulances could be maintained in Araxos. So I think it may be the beginning of a new debate. What we could see, and indeed, for me is of great value, is that in addition to the great formations that exist in the area, there are great forces of the police, the port and the firefighting, which could, in fact, decapitate public structures from the one hand and on the other, all those who come and - in quotes - "carry" the military hospitals of Athens, serve there. We could also see the possibility of having one, if you want, primary care, that is to say some clinical or some structures that in the first phase would serve simple things, specific things for all these people, who and their families, Minister, are several thousand in the region. I agree that the development of road networks helps, and therefore all the planned incidents could be made in the military hospitals in Athens and in the structures of Athens, but on the other hand, the next thing I would like to add, is that the Army and its technical services have potential to either see or repair infrastructures that really exist, perhaps at less cost than if you want the market. Finally, I would like to say that for me in the time of the crisis, the most important thing, Minister, is that we can support public infrastructure. This is a building, which was purchased by the Ministry of National Defence. A donor built it to become a military hospital, in fact, to serve the KETB camp next door. It is a public infrastructure, which, as soon as possible, was working as a hospital, which means - and, in fact, I am glad you start thinking about it and I know that you are a person who always has a positive thought - that in order for an infrastructure to desolate, it is preferable to start thinking about, how we will put it back into the health system, how, in fact, will, through the Ministry of National Defence, be able to operate a local development tool, on the one hand, from the one hand, and how the demobilizers, the active soldiers, the uniforms, firefighters and benches will, in real time of crisis, have access to a piece very close to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Katsaniotis. We'll listen to the Minister in his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u23	Mr Katsaniotis, I will say this very soon. First of all, we have to agree that what we all have to do - and we are trying to do so - is to improve the public health system. So that's our central, if you want, issue. Because, in addition, someone would say, the Armed Forces' health system operates in some way. Otherwise, we'll start having problems. Secondly, it is given the ability of the Armed Forces to do works, say cheaper, in a cheaper way than the free market. But on the other hand, a hospital's equipment is not done with works. They need machinery, etc., etc. The third point I wanted to make is what can be done, that is, I come to what I wanted to reply to you before. First of all, I told you that the first is to look at the matter. If you want my personal opinion, there are other issues that are more urgent, but we must begin planning for the future as well. That's the one. The second is that there is the law, which is known to you, the 4407/2016 in relation to the property of the Armed Forces, i.e. the Hellenic Armed Forces. So he, after he's finished, can be activated. This law has two basic elements. One is, how it can activate it and exploit it, exploit this space public in various ways, and the other is, how it can be exploited more generally, that is, society, always with a benefit on the part of the Armed Forces as well. The third thing I wanted to say to you - and to close with it - is that in all these years, apart from special health care in respect of the Armed Forces, I would remind you that we have opened up new clinics in at least a year and a half, I would remind you that we have greatly improved medical infrastructure in the military units, and I would remind you that we have made a great contribution to the National Health System. If I remember correctly, at the moment fifty-two rural doctors are in barren areas at the request of the Ministry of Health, and at the same time, the aerospace facilities are mainly made by the Air Force and the Air Force and the new base we have in Syros. So, in my opinion, we have improved the offer of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence to the whole of health, and at the same time we have developed a new system and take responsibility for other issues, as are, let us say, the refugee issue. I always speak from a medical point of view. Because I understand that more than a topical question, here we are dealing with a proposal, and I promise you that I have recorded the proposal and we will see it and we will be in a discussion relationship, I would say, to what best can be done for this region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, Mr Katsaniotis. We are going to read out the abrogated topical questions. Due to the impediment of Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Pavlaki, on grounds of unsuccessful obligations, the fourth question under number 1251/18-7-2017 will not be discussed for the first time with regard to the non-payment of employees of the FF parliamentary Vice-President and Member of the Folketing of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis. & SIA E.E.’ at Larissa University Hospital. Nor will the second question, with No 1246/18-7-2017, be discussed in a timely manner by the Member of Parliament for the adoption of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The absence of a mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the need for EKA's crossings, waterways and aerospaces". Due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, on account of a workload, the third will not be discussed with number 1219/12-7-2017, a top-level question for the first cycle of the MEP of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukouou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The commitments to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the prerequisites of the evaluation without informing the House." Nor will the third be discussed under number 1119/3-7-2017, a topical question by the H' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP, Piraeus II, the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Finance, on the theft of electricity. The fourth question under number 1032/16-6/2017 will not be discussed in the context of a topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the bet companies. Also the fifth question under number 1026-2017 of the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘The perspective and needs of the international airport of Kalamata’. The eighth Question No 931/2-6-2017 will still not be discussed at the end of the eighth session of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Georgios Amyras, on the 'SIEMENS' case. Last question that will not be discussed with Mr. Tsakalotos is the ninth question under number 924/1-6/2017 of the Second Chamber of Deputies of Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Finance, on the "definition of judges in the administration of the Supreme Council". Due to the obstruction of Deputy Minister of Finance, George Huliarakis, on the cause of the parliamentary work, the second will not be discussed under number 1244/18-7-2017, the first question by MP Photiotis of the New Republic of Christos Stakoura to the Minister of Finance, on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek State and making available for social purposes". Nor will the first question under number 5958/576/30-5-2017 be discussed and an application for the submission of documents by the Independent MEP II, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Are alternatives sought or not, in order to avoid a new reduction in pension expenditure with the last L.4472/2017?" Due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, the sixth question under number 976-6-2017 will not be discussed at the time of the second question of the MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Vlacho's Salvation to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Halkidiki Law Deficiencies put the lives of citizens at risk". Due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, the seventh will not be discussed under number 923/1-6/2017, the second time question of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, on the subject: "Fullement of the Baptist of the nation". Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 18 May 2017, Thursday 25 May 2017, Friday 26 May 2017, Monday 29 May 2017, Friday 2 June 2017, Tuesday 6 June 2017 and the end of Wednesday 7 June 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u25	The minutes of Thursday 18 May 2017, Thursday 25 May 2017, Friday 26 May 2017, Monday 29 May 2017, Friday 2 June 2017, Tuesday 6 June 2017 and the end of Wednesday 7 June 2017 were validated. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-24-S1-commons.u26	The sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, July 25, 2017 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, Parliament's decisions: discussion and vote in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure of Parliament's proposal: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament - Part II (Government Gazette 51 A'/10.4.1997) and Part Parliament (Government Gazette 106 A' 24.6.1987) as in force", according to the special agenda distributed.
