ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting was held just before the top Western theory, after participating in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fifteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 127th Athens Municipal School. The kids are gone, so I don't welcome them. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following announcements: The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Culture and Sport, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration, Maritime and Energy Policy, Rural Development and Food and Tourism, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Economic Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy and Energy, Energy and Rural Development and Food tabled a draft law on 14-12-2017: ‘Move the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, on the other part.’ It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Ministers of Finance, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, National Defence, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, tabled a draft law on 14-12-20117: "Business of Financial Instruments and Other Provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Finally, I have the honour to announce No 1429/9167 from 15 December 2017 the decision of the President of the Parliament entitled 'Recommendation and establishment of the Permanent Committees of the Parliament'. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2018’. With regard to the organisation of the debate, following the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents, I would like to propose the following: Firstly, in today's sitting, Monday 18-12-2017, I propose that the list of speakers be exhausted. There are some forty speakers left. All Members will therefore speak until the night when the meeting is closed. In particular, I propose that the forty-six left-wing Members speak on the list, the remaining six parliamentary representatives - because they have already spoken two - and finally twelve ministers on the basis of the list sent to me by the Secretary-General of the Government. The end of today's sitting is estimated to be at 22.30 p.m. Tomorrow's meeting, Tuesday, 19-12-2017, will start at 10:30 in the morning. With regard to the last day's debate, I propose that we begin with two circles of speakers. This is an innovation that is being done for the first time and is intended not only by the ministers on the last day, but also by the opposition. The first cycle will include, because it takes time, the rapporteurs-general and the independent special rapporteurs, so that they will, if they so wish, give a second answer for three minutes each. The second cycle will include the eight parliamentary representatives - with the same logic as I said to you - who will, if they so wish, also for three minutes. In these circles I propose that the ministers who will be involved on tomorrow's basis should be involved on the basis of the list to be sent to us. For today you know that they will speak twelve ministers, starting after a while, until night at 22.30 ́. The discussions of the political leaders will then begin and then it is estimated that the procedure will be completed by about 9 a.m. tomorrow, so that the vote can begin. The vote will not start before 10.00 p.m. -10.30 p.m. because the procedure, as you know, needs a lot of time, is being set up for every ministry, with two voters, plus lists, etc. - it takes about half an hour to three quarters. Is there therefore any objection to this procedure? I think she's good. The good news is, there won't be a single colleague left without talking. They'll all talk. The list will be exhausted today. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u3	The House unanimously agreed. We will start with the first three speakers, Mrs Kavadia, Mrs Kafantaris and Mr Scandalidis. According to my list, first in a row from the ministers is Mr. Chironis. Then I will give the floor to both Mr Gavroglou and then we will continue with speakers or if a parliamentary representative from the six who did not speak to intervene after the speeches of the Ministers, we will intrude him so that the parliamentary representatives will also be finished by night. I think we have no more procedural problem. Mrs. Annetta Cavadia can come to Stepma. Because she informed me that she wants to say two words about the sudden death of her colleague Vassili Beskeni, she's going to have a little tolerant of time. Mrs. Cavadia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the President has said, you will allow me to begin my speech with a personal reference. Today, the journalistic family mourns a young man, Vassilis Besconi, who suddenly left life at the age of forty years. I would therefore like to express my most sincere condolences to the family, friends and colleagues here. The loss of such a young man can only fill us with grief. At the same time, I would like to condemn unequivocally, 'broadly' comments which have been posted on the Internet and which characterize them and those who raised them. Death, under no circumstances can be used for any kind of micro-party purposes. This requires silence and respect for the mourning of his own people. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the 2018 budget, while out of this Chamber there are twenty-five refugees who have experienced the horror of war. And we are only discussing a few hours after the end of the European Union summit, a meeting which has confirmed once again what is commonplace, that Europe has lost its direction, is seeking identity and convincing answers to the phenomenon of racism, nationalism and xenophobia, phenomena which show that the 'bug of the snake' has unfortunately been incubated for the good in the hearts of our continent and no excuse or illusion is forgiven. I begin with my speech in this report because, unfortunately, all the previous days, colleagues from the Officerial Representation have overtaken themselves again in the denouncing speech and extreme rhetoric, showing a destructive and scandalous picture of the country, and wanting to fish in cloudy waters, thus intertwining with arguments and logic, which are used by the most extreme right-wing parts of the political spectrum. I would point out, therefore, that when the second party of the country adopts opinions, such as, for example, economic inequality is a natural and normal phenomenon, which has no way or reason to deal with, or when we hear from the party chairman himself, Officerial Response, it is implicit that 'if anyone does not spend his homes 'Excellency', then he will not be able to deal with the real Excellencies', then he legalises and encroachs society in terms that, as a potential expresser of the middle space, he should reject this question. If, of course, he did not understand the country as a trophy of power, which must at all costs come to his hands. To go now to the 2018 budget, a year that will mark our exit from the memoranda and the very tough committee, without, of course, implying that the wounds will be shut down by magic. However, we are trying to get the country out of the memorial period with society upright, as promised to the Greek people. With weaknesses? Undoubtedly. At a heavy price, at policies that do not express us, but having given us a continuous, undeniably tough battle with significant individual successes, while the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition were whistling indifferently and playing the game of the lenders, asking us to sign up for anything. And now you come to blame us for not negotiating, at the same time dissociating the fascist theory of 'all ourselves', seeking in this way to forget your responsibility for the fact that your own policies and your own groups brought the country into the arms of lenders. Of course we're not all the same. For example, we this year are increasing the budget of social solidarity by 20.6% compared to last year, while compared to the 2015 budget, the increase is 232%. We are giving a second year social dividend to those who were particularly hit by the humanitarian crisis you brought to the country, insisting that we are primarily interested in people and not in numbers. In the same logic is the EUR 400 allowance for unemployed young people from 18 to 24 years old. We will also give EUR 760 million this year for the social solidarity allowance, school meals to a hundred thirty thousand primary schoolchildren. We cover the costs for a hundred and ten thousand children at nursery stations and increase family allowances by 40%, despite what your friendly Ministry "Cassandras" claimed. We objected to the attack on disability benefits and legislated that the workers' demands of six months before all other creditors would be precedented for bankruptcy. We are the ones who will receive money from television licences, despite your rabies reaction with certain mini-circles, and we are again the ones who, in a series of legislation, have promoted - and we will further promote - a series of social and human rights that your conservative approach has left them for years to unquestionable. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really think that when you say that you are going to streamline public spending, is there even one or one who does not understand that you feel redundancies and wage cuts in an economy that is still suffering from the recession? And of course, these redundancies and wage cuts will relate to the mass of workers and employees and not the so-called "elite" that is conspiring at your tables and lists, dreaming of the perpetuation of her privileges. Do you really think that when you yell at scandals, is it possible to remove from collective memory the 'SIEMENS', the Paradise Papers, the Panama Papers, the millions that have been eaten for years in health and equipment, the incredible 'days' loans and the outstanding loans of EUR 400 million in the New Democracy and PASOK, which, among other things, the Committee of Inquiry revealed by the House's Committee of Inquiry? Who were the protagonists at this party that's been standing for decades against the public finances of the country? But your own executives who don't have the courage, the strength, and the willingness to put them aside. On the contrary, you let them perpetuate, embraced with the capitals of the old glorious mediator system and the various "porphyrogens", thinking that with the old recipes of the arranged pen and the paid keyboard you will be able to rinse out in the eyes of the public. Sadly, however, for you, times have changed. You may cry out of cry, you may be playing "your change" with the valuable help of your loved media, but the truth is impeccable: After all the previous scenarios - that we would supposedly fall off the rocks, that the evaluations, that they would go "cut" - collapsed ceremoniously, now - seeing the popular laps close - put your ambitions at the hands of your communicationists, who despite their persistent and friendly efforts are inextricably faced with the unsolved problem. As much as changing the wrapping of the product you ask them to sell, the content 'does not pull'. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with this: The 2018 budget, away from all kinds of success story, is another step towards a great effort to bring society out of the suffering of the memoranda, while at the same time remaining consistent in the vision of social justice and solidarity. The time remaining until the 2019 elections is the great challenge for us to prove that - free from the very tough comitology - we remain faithfully committed to the classic - in favour of the weaker - character that our policy must have. We also have to respond to this challenge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u5	Mrs Kafantaris has the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is indeed a top parliamentary procedure. In seriousness, with a sense of responsibility for government and opposition, they must discuss, plan the country next year, in 2018, but based on real elements. Especially today when our country comes out of the memorandum regime in August 2018, this debate is very serious. Sadly, however, Opposition and in particular New Democracy faces this topical process with ideologies, distortions and only opposition. Why? Because your account, gentlemen, and especially of the New Democracy, has collapsed miserably. ‘Building’ the fall of the government in the first half of 2015. You thought we would be a 'left parenthesis'. "Door" to the non-closure of the evaluation. But the first and the second and typical ones will also be closed in January. As far as the course of the budget is concerned, we have to say that it is being consistently followed. Indeed, we have exceeded the targets, over the past two years in the primary surplus, and this year it seems again the same, that the target will be exceeded. There is a projection of 2.4% from 1.75%. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is stepping up our country now and at market level, and they have contributed to increasing our credibility and that is what is seen at market level. On the international capital markets, the situation is rising steadily. Recent success is the 10-year bond, the interest rate of which reached the 2006 level of less than 4%. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the country's upgrade. Where were we in 2014 and where are we today? Today our country has geopolitically upgraded, with the implementation of a multi-dimensional foreign policy, with the tripartite and quadripartite agreements with Eastern Mediterranean countries such as Cyprus, Israel, Egypt, and even the agreements with Italy. It develops into an important energy hub in the eastern Mediterranean. The gas pipelines bring the producers in the region closer to consumers in the West. Our country, Greece, is making a decisive contribution to Europe's energy security, while large companies are interested in investing substantial funds in research and the exploitation of hydrocarbons. The role of our country in Balkans is also being upgraded. A number of foreign leaders of large countries of the European Union - and not only - visited our country this three-year period. Recently - and this is very important - at European Union level, the Prime Minister has taken initiatives on social Europe, and large strong countries in the European Union - countries such as France, Italy, Sweden, Portugal - have agreed on the social dimension deficit in the EU and the need to strengthen the social pillar of the European Union. Our country from obscurity has now come to the international scene. It is also recognised as a pole of stability and peace in the vast region of the Eastern Mediterranean. The return of our country to what we call normality is a fact. We're on our way to normality. But when we say regularity, what do we mean? We do not mean the regularity that led us to the memorials from the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, but the normality created by a new model of development, a 'fair development', as we say, with reduced unemployment - unemployment already fell below 1 million when it was taken in January 2015 to 1.5 million - with environmental rules, namely spatial planning, landmark - so many years had not been achieved - and forest maps. Regularity with increasing GDP, when within four years on previous governments it fell to 25%. Regularity with domestic and foreign investment, and of course with a rational government function, with the aim of upgrading its quality and, of course, serving the citizen, with respect for the environment, and with the consequences of growing climate change, which is now a global phenomenon. Regularity, ladies and gentlemen, it is a development that focuses on man and his needs in a new memorial era, which we must now begin planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u7	We close the first triad of speakers with Mr. Scandalidis and then, as we have said, Mr. Tsironis will take the floor. Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to share the optimistic picture presented by the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, but the facts are after me. Our rapporteur, as well as all the Members of Parliament and the parliamentary representatives of the Democratic Integration and the River, with a number of figures, figures and arguments, have demonstrated the real nature of the budget: Forging, anti-developing, anti-social. Most of all, it does not allow any optimism, it is no hope that the country can come out of the openness next year, that it can improve even at a minimum the lives of its people. The 2018 budget is in fact the latest overall government programme act prior to the closure of the electoral cycle. What we have been living with at this time with dividends and beneficiaries, with the sloppy assignments to temporary and part-time jobs, with the fast-track evaluation and unconditional delivery of our partners' cheques, is clearly elements of an election planning. The scenario is simple: we come out as - as typically from the Memorandum, we get another, a little more specific, reassurance on the debt, we share a tsatra - a tsatre of what we can put out of the surplus and let growth stand, and let there be unscrupulous taxes, we go out to the markets, even if the course of economic growth is ahead of high interest rates and we go close to elections. So you designed a script of party salvation, regardless of whether the country will not have solved any of the essential problems accompanying its long-standing crisis. It may be the last and hopeless attempt of a political, moral and socially collapsed government, which has long lost the people's confidence, but that is not the present one. It is now that this particular script of party salvation no relationship can have with a real scenario of national salvation. Ladies and gentlemen, the storage of clean exit from the memorandum and the recovery of national sovereignty, in my opinion, is a myth. He's literally on the air. You are being welcomed every day because our European partners, following the persuasive attitude of the government in the latter assessment, are prosecuting the exit from the Memorandum. It's very simple. Firstly, because they are bound to their donkey by the unbearable primary surpluses, by the digitalised new contraction of wages and pensions, by the tradition of national wealth in foreign management and endless overtaxation, which are de facto a memorandum. Secondly, because there will be no need for a credit line with low interest rates of financing, which would impose forced recourse on their national parliaments. Thirdly, because, while we were consciously led to the complete depreciation of any assets, public and private, the partners themselves are taking away all further responsibility for our conditions of exit on the markets. That is to say, for them, "and the dog is full and the pie is strong." The net exit and recovery scenario of national sovereignty is described by a phrase: it is simply the end of the country's cheap funding. In the meantime, what are we living? We are dramatically experiencing the dissolution of the social state with a dividend of "antidote", "antidote" in the dissolution of hospitals, "antidote" in tax extermination, "antidote" in the collapse of the insurance system and pensions, "antidote" in the constant decline in full-time and permanent jobs. We are living through the complete dismantling of the production system, by overtaxing businesses, by reducing production and exports, by wide-ranging deinvestment. We are spectators of the dramatic overthrow of democratic equilibrium by exporting the country's most creative and productive human resources, young people. Unfortunately, the conclusion is regrettable: the pre-territorial tertiary worldization and poorness of the people continue their path more quickly than before. And yet, the country lost a historic opportunity and was left as a legacy of governance three lost years. If, instead of the raging and incomplete policy of the first year, instead of the foreign attitude with the referendums and elections of the second year, if, instead of unconditional and unconditional submission to the requirements of the third-year troika, the pro-European political forces, from the beginning, agreed on the national line of exit from the memorandum, where the country had arrived, today, it would be different. We'd be able to catch up with the history train. Why in Portugal, in Ireland, in Cyprus, without undermining the flags of their differences, did the parties sit on a table and managed to reach an agreement to get the countries out of the memorandum? You constantly abdicate us for the policy of national understanding - you do not understand it - by insisting on divisive and politicacy practices which irreparably harm the country. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are a country where we politicians have trained her to constantly look backwards, not to take responsibility. We who dared to do so at some point have paid our price and awkwardness. I would like to say one last thing, ladies and gentlemen. Whichever channel we can go to, whatever interview we give, whatever meeting we go, they constantly ask us "who are you going to go with?" accusing us as right-wing neighbors, and the fact that we are looking to the left. As much as we try to implement the real national line and our autonomous course, you there, 'the door deaf'. Why not come to our proposal that proves in practice the only one that can open a new way for the country? No matter how much you press us, no matter how much you despise us, no matter how much you despise us - from fear - the retreat and the blundering of the democratic and progressive world that began to bear fruit, we, until the elections, whenever they occur and, above all, after them, will insist on the strategy of national understanding. Whether the second or third mandate trusts us the people with their verdict, we will faithfully serve the only existing scenario of national salvation. That's what our conscience dictates. This requires the tradition and heritage of the progressive democratic party.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u9	Mr Tsironis, Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor for eight minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I am very pleased to speak just after the previous speaker, because it seems by intuition that I have diagnosed these novels, which are constantly reproduced and which I am going to break down. Today, then, we are discussing the third budget of our government and the third to be implemented, because you see, on the days of the intertwined and vicious regime, the main feature of the budgets was that others were written, others were designed and others were done. These vicious governments did this not because they were failing at design level in relation to the result, but because they had to be involved between their designs and the execution of customer services. First of all, the "brains and tubers" who "feed" the people were all going well, as our poet, Manolis Rasoulis, says. The so-called entrepreneurs, those who did not put a euro in their pockets and with foreign libraries, had to be served, the profits of offshore and the damage to the Greek people had to be brought to the service. And of course the Greek people had to be held hostage. Thirty and forty years the town plans were made, with the result that the world, especially the devastated and the poor, the citizens of a lower god in Mandra, were built in arbitrary, rocked streams - where the state of course was built - and they were constantly hostages of each mayor. They felt hostages to find a job for their child, because a minister had to have the nerve after saying "we had eaten it together" because that was the hostage. To 'feed', therefore, all these counterproductive budgets never came out. One will wonder, "After they never came out, how was Greece working?" But it was simple how it worked. She was running around eating her flesh. First of all, the money, the reserves of all the funds since 1951, which entered the Bank of Greece. You know, we know. Don't repeat it. We're talking about insurance without reserve. Because the main pillar of an insurance policy is their reserves and interest, of course. If they get lost, what we're talking about. Then, of course, the environment was criminally crushed. The most valuable asset in this country, the unique environment, was fragmented on a novel of supposed development. We, the Greens, have always said that this development that kills the environment is a development of the predator. Unfortunately, we were entitled in 2009, because until then there was a "environment or development" tale. Then the European funds, which were shared in an 'appropriate' way, were also consumed, as I will say shortly thereafter. After all this was over and, of course, it did not come to light, a parasitic symposium of so-called power, then, of course, the lending and public and, of course, the public and of course, of the world with the festivities - you know it - and with other such counterproductive and consumer habits that were "saving" that Greece supposedly emerges from the crisis and has GDP. But what GDP? And where's GDP from? Let me now bring two examples from my own competence. Over the past five years, every five-year programme has been in Greece for some 20 billion in the agricultural sector. In particular, in the five years 2004 to 2009 - I will mention this not because I have something with these people, but because it is before the crisis - some 20 billion have entered. If you look at the GDP in these years, you will find that it has fallen by 22%, from about 10 billion to 7 billion. There was a 22% loss of GDP. And I ask very simply every sensible person: How is it possible in one sector to fall 20 billion and to lose the other 7 to 8 billion from a fall in GDP? What happened to that money? Why did people leave the agricultural profession with such a big influx of capital? I shall mention a second example. Remember the fines that Greece was paying for because the money from agricultural resources was going either sloppy or cheaper, so that we have billions of fines afterwards? While even 1 euro has not been lost for these days, we have not eaten one euro. So, here we can say that there are two fundamental differences between the budget, our budgets in general, our own budgets, which is why they come out, and the budgets of the former philosophical regime. The first is that we have housed our finances and that is why we can implement them. This is why interest rates have reached levels before 2006. Because this demonstrates the confidence the other one will buy the Greek bond. And that's the supreme judge. It has nothing to do with what the Prime Minister says or what the Chief of Staff says here. That's indisputable. The interest rate shows where the Greek economy is, at least that's how foreigners see it. But there is also a second, more important, if that is what happens by keeping Greece up. I am also pleased that the previous speaker spoke of unemployment, because I am not going to talk about unemployment. I'll talk about employment. Because we keep hearing this tale that unemployment, he says, is constantly due to the fact that people are leaving outside and that jobs are part-time of EUR 400. First we need to talk about the overall human potential. Greece in 2009 had a total human resource of 5.25,000 people, before the crisis. In June 2012, the total workforce - when we say labour, we mean together with those who do not work, with those who are income-income, everyone, those who are not interested in jobs, those who do not want, the whole human resource - had fallen to 5 million. I mean, 125,000 people had left the country. Since the crisis began until June 2012, 125 000 people have left. By December 2014, 84,000 other people had left, and the country’s human resources fell to 4,016,000 people. We lost 200,000 people from the people around us. 200,000 people left. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] I just need a minute, Mr President. On the contrary, in our years this has not only been interrupted, but we also had 20,000 people and thus reached 4,936,000 people in Greece. I mean, it's overturned. And they have the nerve here, the people who made Brain Drain accuse us of that, the people we stirred it up. These are ELSTAT's numbers. And now we're going to full-time. I will not talk about part-time work, just full-time. They were 4.374 000 fully employed before the crisis, before 2009. In 2014 it was 3.278,000. 1,100,000 full-time jobs lost - full-time, I stress - leave elastic work, leave seasonal. And of these 267,000 were lost in the years of the success story. They lost 267,000 people full-time in the years of the success story. In our days from 2015 to June 2017, we had 241,000 new full-time jobs - I stress - forget about part-time work, and 51,100, as seen in the latest ELSTAT bulletin three days ago that came out in the third quarter. And don't tell me it's tourism, because people of tourism are hired in spring. Where did these people get a job? It's very simple. The industrial index fell by 4.5% a year all years until 2014. Nowadays we had 1% increase in 2015, 2.5% in 2016 and 5.6% until August 2017. It's all ELSTAT's elements. Read it. The industrial production index, agricultural production, rose to 3.7% in three years. That's where these people got a job, they didn't find their consumption. And I will end with just one example of what reform means, from the grazing land management plans. It's what the press doesn't write. The grazing land management plans, a dream of decades, simply means that while these mountains were feeding three and four times the size of animals a few decades ago, we are currently importing feed. And 70% of the cost to our farmers is feed. We can have feed. And what else? If we have management, we will have multiple areas to be subsidised by the European Union. So this is our radical difference, ladies and gentlemen. On your day, in Greece the predator was dominated by ticks. In Greece we build, the bees will dominate. Not a single euro, ladies and gentlemen, in parasiticism! That is our difference, and that is why our budgets are coming out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u11	The second minister is now on the table and then there will be five colleagues. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Gavroglou, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to present the overall plan of our educational reform, which is realistic and with a specific perspective, precisely because for the second consecutive year, after many years, public spending on education is increasing. This year is 3.6% compared to last year. Last year was 5.4% compared with last year, i.e. we have two years of continuous growth. As I said, it is for the first time since 2011, and that gives us the assurance that we can now implement what we have planned for educational reform. And we planned them, knowing about this course of the Greek economy. These figures obviously do not include the national part of the Public Investment Programme and do not include various other funds for which there is a commitment to be added to our education initiatives. From time to time, from September 2018, we are starting to implement our plan for compulsory fourteen-year-old education. This means compulsory two-year pre-school education, that is, two years of pre-school education, where it will be held by the kindergartens, in two hundred municipalities from the three hundred forty-five. All this is a three-year in-depth reform plan. Its principle has already begun to be implemented and will continue since September. Obligation, therefore, to two years of pre-school education in the two hundred fifty municipalities from three hundred forty-five and three years in depth to all. Secondly, a great effort that has begun, been continued by us and will continue, is the full upgrade of the full-day schools. You know that this year we expanded the entire school and all the school-leaving schools. We must convince society that the entire day's schools are an institution that only good for children. It is not a 'parking' of children. He obviously wants additional staff, he obviously wants additional financial support, but in the past two years, the specific initiatives we have taken have proved, we think, and in the Greek society that the entire schools are an institution that we need to take very seriously. We also move on to what has been quite commented on: at least one weekend, on the decision of the teachers' club, the bag stays in school for primary children.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u13	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt you for ten seconds, since you're at the Step. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, forty-four students and students and five teachers from the 2nd Eleusina General School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u14	So the bag at school was commented on by some in a sceptic manner. Some people made fun of it. They're all those who don't know what's going on in education. And I say it too aggressively. Keeping the bag in school for at least one weekend doesn't just have a symbolic character. It says, to families mostly, that children can do much more this weekend than read Monday’s lessons. The identification of stress and particularly stress Monday - which I am sure both friends and friends will have it very much - on how it prepares next week cannot be identified with the learning process. So we are also taking measures of this kind to give this message and above all to give the message that families have to think about the children's free time, about what other things can be done and not just about their exclusive relationship with lessons. Fourthly, the rationalization of education programmes in high school through the change of books. Serious problems in books, again sins of decades. We are working together with the Institute for Educational Policy to have a rationalization of both programs and books. And of course, as you know, we are very close to announcing very specific regulations. Fifthly, our great reform plan for high school and reform of the import system. We're a society in which there's no Third High School. Third grade is a daily life that has nothing to do with a basic stay at school. This is something that the whole society has to deal with. And we have to face it to see how we regain public school as a whole. So High School III is today a stay at school between a daily life of children of a very difficult age in relation to their relationship with the outside world and an incredible oppression, which exists due to the specific system of introductory examinations. So we propose a dramatic reduction in courses, an increase in teaching hours, a discharge that makes sense, so that with the degree of dismissal you can enter the university. We particularly want to find ways - that is what we are studying - so that children study what they want and not what they are their 30th choice, precisely because there is this pathogen. Sixthly, we have taken - and I think that all sides accept this - excellent initiatives to include children with disabilities. We have the highest number of teachers recruits for these needs in our schools. This must be welcomed, although we have additional problems every day. But we have additional problems, because there is a very good thing in Greek society: A lot of families are starting to get out with the problems that their children have. They know our schools can welcome these children. They know in our schools there'll be experts on these kids. Unfortunately, there are many problems. But we're starting to solve an impressive number of problems. We welcome this maturity with which too many parents face this extremely complex and difficult problem of their everyday lives and come out towards society, go to our schools, just so they can share it. It is precisely in this context that we will now proceed, in January, to the legalisation of the necessary structures. Seventh element is the abolition of the closed number of admissions to many sections of higher education, i.e. if some want to study something, apart from polytechnics, except legal and medical, they will be able to enter departments where their cognitive object is to study by creating new departments and by giving additional teaching posts to the existing departments. Eighth, it is the legislation that we are tabling directly and has to do with where brothers are studying. It is unacceptable today that there should be families that maintain two and three houses beyond their own. It can't be done. A left-wing government, a government with sensitivities in society, must solve it. We will therefore directly legislate that no family will sustain over a house except where they live. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Under an income, children, if they want to, will be able to come where their families live. This is a commitment. We're going to put it down these days and vote. It will apply from the second half after February. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As you know, we have taken a major synergies initiative of the TEIs with the universities. As you know, TEIs are also many times victims of a political stranger for decades. Despite this policy, we have excellent sections at the TEIs. There are very serious discussions with universities. These synergies and mergers will be carried out at academic level and we are already moving in that direction. Today, as the Prime Minister told Elefsina yesterday, the bill on the creation of the University of West Attica comes public. The University of Western Attica is created by the merger of two TEIs, but it is not the merge of the two TEIs. New sections, new cognitive objects, new curriculum courses are being created. Already, for six months there have been committees that operate very intensively. Today the bill for the establishment of the University of Western Attica comes into consultation. The University of West Attica is going to play an extremely innovative role in the creation and functioning of the new two-year structures where children will be taken from the PES without examinations and which will receive a professional certificate of European qualifications. So we are also starting to put a little bit of stone on this great need to create high-level techniques. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u15	Please, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u16	Of course, Mr President. I was sure you'd tell me, so I caught up with you guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u17	Lately, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u18	I conclude by emphasising the huge number of scholarships given by the IKY for postgraduate and, above all, for postdoctors, together with the initiatives we have taken in the field of research, so that this space can be slowly created so that this world does not leave abroad permanently, while it can go along with great flexibility. Of course, on Saturday at the meeting we had with the Rectors' Conference, we announced the increase in the exceptional grant of EUR 41,000. It is an increase of 50%, which has not been done for too many years. The reason why we are all doing this, not only the grant, but all the other things I said before, is that we are now convinced that we are going to a normal economic situation. We will have these resources to take these initiatives and move them forward. We believe that all this is reflected in our budget. What we also need to take care - and I say so that we do not want to hide it - is the most serious problem of appointments, new appointments to the middle school and appointments to universities and our TEIs. It's one thing that you know is beyond our intentions. It is one thing that is the first on the agenda of the consultation we are doing with the institutions. We hope to have very good news with the completion of the various evaluations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u19	It will be followed by a series of colleagues before Mrs Gerovas gets the floor on the list of Ministers. It will be Mr. Stergiou, Mr. Bouras, Mr. Bolaris, Mr. Tragakis, Mr. Karasmanis and Mr. Paciotakis. Then Mrs Gerovali will take the floor. Mr. Steeriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. No matter how much growth you do to sell the story and the fraud of supposedly fair growth, you are being disproved by the harsh reality that workers experience. We have heard the announcements made by the Minister of Labour about the benefits to the young unemployed, those that your policy has cut the current. Without underestimating any breath toward young people, we want to denounce the government, which has not changed anything about the conditions for subsidising the unemployed of the New Democracy and PASOK, so that the unemployed remain unprotected. The JRC's position is that all the unemployed should be subsidised without conditions and conditions, for as long as they are unemployed. The budget figures themselves show embodiedly that it is a large anti-grass slaughterhouse for wages, pensions, allowances, forgery and goes by saying. And because, as you all say by government, it is the last Memorandum budget, do you want to say that since 2019 you will reinstate your thirteenth and fourteenth pensions and the thirteenth and fourteenth wages for civil servants? Will the new pension reduction not apply from 1 January 2019, which you are voting on with the second assessment? Will the ESS return and not completely be abolished, as foreseen in the first assessment? Will you bring the minimum wage back to EUR 751 and into force of sectoral contracts? Will you abolish all the anti-Fraud and Memorandum Laws, which have been in full force since 2010 and have formed a working hell for workers? But, well, we ask you: are you really not ashamed to say such gross lies, when you have legislated slaughterhouse measures for 2019, pension cuts in 2020, tax-free reductions, 3.5% bleeding surpluses by 2022 and at least 2% by 2060? It is clear that the aim of the budget is to recover the profits of the capitalist economy, which, however, cannot be achieved without the increase in exploitation and the abolition of rights. It completes crime against the rights of the working class, releasing the labour market even more so that you have cheap, consumable labour, a felony in the appetites of the employer. You each support the designs of monopolistic groups in every way. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have proved to be their best servants, since you are all admired by BSE by the European Union, by the IMF to the US Ambassador. Do you feel proud of that, gentlemen of the government? Your policy, which gives it all to big capital, must, at the same time, be shielded by popular reactions, by the radicalization of the working class and resort to all the weapons that the former have taught us, authoritarianism, repression, preventive arrests. In Yannina, carrying out orders from the marketing agency, the police arrested 12 employees and trade unionists, for claiming their jobs and re-entry. On the day of the strike, the employer was commanded to break the strike. MATs, violence and chemicals in the Ministry of Education, Minister of Education, against students and workers. The same happens in the peace courts for the defence of the people's residence. Police, MATs and goons to break the strike in a workplace in Kavala. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, without any shame, you have gone to the completion of the crime in order to hit the greatest occupation of the working class, their right to the strike, a vindication of the labour force. The New Democracy does not hide its joy and look forward to bringing him in to vote with two hands, like the other parties. For the JRC - we're telling you - it's a cause of war. Invoke democracy and participation in workplaces. You took my pain in democracy at the trade unions and at the workplace. But what kind of democracy are you talking about? About the democracy that ends when the worker passes the factory door? For the democracy of the employer, which requires workers to declare the union as a condition for recruitment? About democracy sending MATs by suggesting the bosses to strike strike strikers and arrest? For the democracy of your legal arsenal that removes rights, benefits, pensions, which controls wages and allowances on workers and unemployed? About the democracy that makes adjustments to the debts of the few and takes out the houses of our people into the hammer? For democracy, anyway, which ensures that with a 20% you can rule and vote for laws and memoranda of lasting? Leave these democratic tales, because how you mean it and what you want it to be shown by the following: While for the strike notice you say to be 50% plus 1%, on the other hand, you have kept the law on associations of persons in full, associations made by employers by the 15% agreement of all employees to cut wages in thousands of businesses by summarizing procedures, subtracting allowances, breaking collective agreements, generalizing flexible forms of work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you are kind, I would like one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u21	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much. Here they get 15% of the workers, you too, but to strike 50% plus 1%. The working class, its right to fight - won with struggles, sacrifices and blood - will not deliver it. You also received a first answer from the fighter participation in the strike last Thursday, in which one of the main demands was 'underhand from the strike'. Gentlemen of the government, the evangelizing evangelical growth has created wings in the workplace, with thousands of accidents at work and dozens dead. This, then, confirms that the capital you faithfully serve kills and does not yet count on the worker’s own life. This development based on the profits of capital, which closes the future in life and human development, presents it as the way out of the crisis. There has never been a fair growth and a fair distribution in the territory of the capitalist economy and, indeed, in times of crisis. Your aim is, ladies and gentlemen, to end, Mr President, to make the people conspiracy, to make them silent, to have him waited for, to tolerate living in poverty and impoverishment, and, as far as I am concerned, by the fair development of some "flavours". As long as the economy is designed to serve profits rather than satisfying needs, our people are not going to see hail. So we call on our workers, our people, to close their ears to the old and new saviors and always guided by their modern needs to fight to regain everything they have been stolen and to pave the way for the definitive discharge of their suffering, overthrowing the'sapy' way of organising the economy, which gives rise to poverty, impoverishment, war and refugee. Consist with the JRC, which has the only political proposal to be made to their advantage, while taking the 'keys' of the economy and power into their own hands. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u23	We're going with my colleague Mr. Athanasio Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget is another anti-development budget. It does not promote the reforms and privatizations needed by the place. It does not pay private sector debts, depriving businesses and workers of the necessary liquidity. It leads to a dead end of thousands of citizens and households. The vast majority of Greeks, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, turns your back. You are the government of taxes and auctions, the government that promised tax-free at 12 000 euros and downloads it below 6 000 euros. You have mined the future of the country, as long as you remain in power, binding the country with primary surpluses of 3.5% by 2022 and close to over 2% by 2060. Otherwise, you have recently said that you will emerge from the Memorandum in August 2018. People don't believe you anymore. It turns you the "platform", as you turned its "platforms" into the recent "development", supposedly, conference you held in West Attica and the trial of traveling affliction called that "development". Known, of course, your forecasts for the 2018 budget are the course of the 2017 budget. That's the safe criterion. Expected growth of 2.7% and you will fall below 1.4%, approximately 1%. While in 2014, with our government, we achieved even marginally positive growth rates, in 2015 and 2016 you led us to the recession. Has Mr Tsipras and the SYRIZA - ANEL government had any responsibility for this? Is the country alone in recession? The Capital Controls alone were imposed? Mones, did the bank statements leave them? Did the bank's elapsing automatically occur? Isn't that your Government that imposed measures of EUR 14.5 billion, twenty-seven new taxes, twenty-one reduction in pensions and social benefits over the last three years? Another government imposed them? Are you trying to convince the Greek people? Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget already includes EUR 1.9 billion, pension and social rights cuts and increased taxes. I need to remind you of some of these. For example, insurance contributions for freelance professionals and professionals are increased. Here we have the paradox, of course, to increase and someone to pay for insurance contributions on their insurance contributions. You are abolishing something, which all governments have not dared to do for years, the reduction of the health tax. The ETUC is being reduced and the ETUC is being permanently abolished. This year, forty thousand of our fellow citizens have lost their lives, adding to the thirty thousand who have already lost it. Let me remind you, because Mr Chironis has left now - he has made comparisons, instead of telling us what he has done for so many years, because now you have no room for comparison. You're three years of government. Apologise for what you did. The Samara government had 900m euros for the CSCE. You will make 80 million available in 2018. That's our difference, and that's our comparison. And, of course, the 10% deduction from personal income tax for medical examinations is abolished. I said it a moment ago. You impose taxes on hotels, rooms for rent and on many other activities. In fact, you have forgotten that you will also abolish the levy on wine, which you have imposed. Finally, what one can only say is that you are a tax government without end and without logic. Now for the smuggling of fuel, while you had found a system in progress with the input-output system, you did not manage three years to implement the installation of a similar system in refining stations, the GPS, so that the country could benefit from the smuggling of fuel, Madam Secretary, and not be lost too much for the Greek people. Now, of course, I have no time - I will ask for one more minute, Mr President, with your tolerance - to say that we are all talking about investment. However, investment also needs an appropriate climate. Businesses and freelance professionals are being called upon to deal with an increasing tax, while liquidity is being reduced. The problem of red loans is growing and the famous extrajudicial compromise is progressing at a turtle rate. Even one euro from the new ESRB has not yet reached one final beneficiary businessman. Consumer income is falling. The recent GATT report clearly says it in the best way. To date, thousands of businesses have experienced seizures of their bank accounts. The public investment programme a few more days before closing in 2017 has a deviation of more than EUR 1 billion. The large projects of the NSRF, which are provided for in the 2014-2020 NSRP, are thirty-four. Of these, fifteen are ongoing projects - bridges from the previous programme. The nineteen new projects have not been submitted for approval in the European Union. You just found the works - bridges.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u25	And that's what you're closing up with, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u26	As far as an infamous programme is concerned, the ESDP, which is a tool for the small and medium-sized enterprises, is also being mobilised. Of the twenty-four actions you would have announced in 2017, only six have been published. What about financial instruments? What about PPPs? Everything goes from bad to worse. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear that the country needs a serious and firm government with a plan, knowledge and experience to support investment and lead the country to development. Our aim in the New Democracy is to support investment and entrepreneurship, as these are the tools that will unlock growth and that will be done by New Democracy with Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u27	President Voutissis looks at me for my tolerance, but because we move on without confrontation, the list goes off well, and so I show tolerance to all colleagues. Mr. Bolaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on this top of the procedure, a procedure which reflects the political will of the government, the state in figures, the budget, the temptation for all speakers is great and we support it. We're entering the logic of numerology. You will allow me to disfellowship and not get into the logic of numericality, the numbers being charged each time to prove the arguments, and that is why we hear conflicting statistics and figures in this Chamber. You will allow me to remain in the policy which is reflected in the figures, to remain in the government's will in figures and which, as every time in politics, exceeds the figures. Political will, political will, political planning go beyond the numbers. We have a budget, to which the political will is not primarily reflected, because the country has been in the captivity of Babylon in recent years, and so the first thing that is reflected is the country's commitments, with the prior agreements and memoranda. However, it is absolutely certain - and this is the message that this House sends, that is the message that the political power, the political system to the people, to the country - must send to the people - that we are walking, that we are on the way out of this winter period, from this winter cliding, who has troubled the people, the citizens, especially the weaker, who have lifted the burden of the crisis. It is important to say that this people, the Greeks, who lifted the burden of the crisis, is the one who deserves today, as the country enters 2018, hope, optimism, see with perspective, because he knows that the difficulties are on his back, he knows that he has spent a very large weight, a very large part of his difficulty. It deserves this because this country has exceptional human resources, and it has excellent human resources, combined with the country's extremely comparative advantages, production and finance, and geostrategics, and it gives extremely comparative advantages, on which we must base our policies. For all of this, for this optimistic tomorrow, the citizen has claims from all of us. It has a requirement to unfold, analyse and implement a political strategic planning, a new path of the country after the crisis, not just after the memoranda. Because the fact that the country is exempted from the signature obligations does not mean that we have overcome the overall problem. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, to say that as we come out of the commitments and move to get out of the crisis, our political planning at all levels must not become the same mistakes that have led us to the crisis. It is important to say that in this people have a requirement for us to build, organise and implement a new productive model for the country, for the economy. A productive model that is costing quality, with competitiveness, with extrovert, with innovation, both in products and services. That is why we need a course which presupposes that the development sector is taking into account justice. We operate on the basis of the retention of social cohesion. That's why there's a care to save people's homes, the first homes of poor people who lifted all the weight. It is important to say that in this new course we need another state, a state that operates effectively, at a speed for the citizen and with transparency. A state of digital, a state without paper and pencil, a state that controls and controls a state in the service of the citizen for development and the productive sector. It is very important to say that this design takes place within an extremely important time for the geostrategic, geopolitical space in which we operate. These have emerged from the last trips and last contacts of the Prime Minister. We are in the eastern Mediterranean, in the south-eastern Europe in the Black Sea, the island of stability and security for citizens, the island of security, defence and human rights, and it is important that we rebuild our economy, our productive base with respect for the citizen. It is very important to say that the concern of the political world, the citizen, the Greeks, is for a country, a country, a country, a Greece, where we operate democratically as a state and as parties, and of course we respect the ties. We are serving institutional function, because my dear colleagues and fellow country institutions have been affected in the time of the crisis many times and it is very important, as we are on the way out, that we take care of this institutional function of the state. The Greeks, our people, have the powers. We can and we'll make it. 2018 - and this is the message we are sending to the citizen - will be better than 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u29	He has the floor now, Mr. Ioannis Tragakis, to all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget that we are debating today in 2018 is sure to be your last budget. At this time of the year the budget will be viewed by television and read its minutes. That's for sure. This budget reflects the failure of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in 2017, of course, as it brings new taxes, new cuts and entangles dignosis in an environment of stability. It is the third budget of excessive austerity of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL and the unsuccessful recipe continues for fourth year. It's political insanity literally. It comprises EUR 1.9 billion of pension and social benefits and tax increases. He is anti-developmental, does not promote the reforms and the privatizations that the place needs. Everyone says that, even the institutions. It does not pay private sector debts by depriving businesses and workers of the necessary liquidity and by failing to attract investments it does not make public investment either. As the low absorption of the NRP and the under-utilisation of the public investment programme proves, which I will be allowed to analyse - because I have a weakness in that - shortly afterwards. It's not just us. That is what Parliament's Budget Office says. It makes serious criticism of too many issues. It considers that social dividends may have adverse effects on growth and it makes sense. It considers - and puts in introductory forms - the surpluses of the insurance funds uncertain. That makes sense, since that's the evidence. Is it not economically rational to expect high growth rates? It makes sense. That's the reality. The significant improvement in the ratio of revenues to GDP after 2014 was achieved only through overtaxation. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget is a budget for over-taxation. With unprecedented terminology, the government hides from the budget the painful, unjust and unjust measures and cuts to be applied in 2018. These are the measures which she has brought and voted on. Gentlemen of the government, you have imposed twenty-nine new taxes, and you have cut pensions twenty-time. Specifically for 2018, the reduction of the EASF by EUR 128 million has been passed, the abolition - let me not say the figures, following Mr Bolaris, who says that the budgets have numericals, but we engineers have a weakness in the figures - of the deduction for medical expenses by EUR 121 million, of the abolition - of 1.5% withholding tax by EUR 68 million, of the change in the method of calculating the contributions of free professionals by EUR 59 million, of the increase in VAT on the islands by EUR 50 million, of the reduction of the heating allowance by EUR 58 million, of the pension freeze by EUR 328 million, of the cuts in the wage bill of 50 thousand mandates, of the abolition of allowances and of those entitled CRLs. At the same time, the government is ensuring that costs are reduced by EUR 2.1 billion, with the greatest scissors falling into pensions, health and welfare. Hold this number, please. The relevant budget for insurance, care and social protection is reduced from EUR 21,037 billion this year to EUR 19,438 billion in 2018. Consider that these crumbs that the Minister responsible gave yesterday for the unemployed from eighteen to twenty-four years are only 20 million euros. There are fifty thousand beneficiaries who receive EUR 400 and a total of EUR 20 million, when they have already cut out of this EUR 1.7 billion. Where are they going? I'm going to say something about public investment now. The implementation course of the Public Investment Programme in 2017 presents a tragic slowdown in relation to the corresponding period of 2014. In particular, for total payments of the Public Investment Programme 3,3 billion euros in 2014, global payments of 1,4 billion euros shall be recorded in the corresponding period of 2017. It was EUR 3,3 billion in 2014 and is EUR 1.4 billion in 2017. In other words, absorption from 42.7% went to 21.95%. The notices of new projects are still in the pre-control phase. In 2017, the co-financed strand remains at the unacceptablely low levels of 20%, with an absorption of just EUR 1,16 billion and then a continuous slowdown. By comparison, in 2014 the co-financed strand recorded a absorption of EUR 3,1 billion and 51%, i.e. 2014 was EUR 3,1 billion and 2017 was EUR 1,16 billion. The Prime Minister announced yesterday - Mr Chironis left - from the Western Attica projects on the floods and all the disasters that took place there. How will all these projects be implemented with these reductions in the public investment programme provided for in this budget? This budget provides for these. Ladies and gentlemen, 2014 was evident that our economy was clearly better. A country which is not developing now cannot maintain surpluses. They can't all come from overtax. The pursuit of primary surpluses at these levels further compresses the private sector, business and households, while tax increases discourage labour and entrepreneurship, create a suffocating environment in the economy and undermine the stage and objective of growth. You're distributing the social dividend. Where does the money come from for the social dividend? They come from overtax. So overtaxation has had the surplus, and that's why it's distributed. This policy cannot be followed. We should distribute dividends if necessary, but it should come from growth. For these reasons, I believe that a prerequisite to getting out of the crisis is political change. That is why I said earlier that this is your last budget. This government neither wants nor can act on reforms and lead the country to a real exit from the crisis and the memoranda. It's an unreliable, incompetent, unreliable government, which has evolved into a government of scandals, interacting and corruption. A change in government is needed. I believe that 2018 will be election year. We in yesterday's conference, which was very successful and from which the party's unity emerged, declared the start of an election campaign, proclaiming 2018 an election year and an election year. So a change of government is needed. There must be a government with a socially sensitive and realistic programme, which will once again give the country credibility. Greece needs a New Democracy government, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, of course. We hope that this will be done soon. And when I say soon, I mean that in 2018 no matter what you do, no matter how you try to do, no matter how much you try to force yourself into power, you will not be able to do it. This highlights the 2018 budget you have submitted. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u31	This cycle will be closed with Mr. Karasmanis and Mr. Plakyotakis. Then Mrs. Gerovali will take the floor. The next sixteen days are Mr. Tsiaras, Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Gatis, Mr. Dousinas, Mr. Stylis and Mr. Giakoumatos. Mr Karasmanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not tire of repeating what our rapporteurs have said, that the budget that we are discussing is the implementation of the fourth memorandum, which the government voted six months ago and with which it has taxed everyone and everything. An undeniable witness, the current OECD, which characterises Greece as a tax champion among the thirty-five countries - members. That is why you will allow me to focus on the inaccuracies that Mr. Apostolos had the day before yesterday from this Step. Mr Apostolos said that he ensured the smooth payment of Community aid. All producers know that the advance payment of the single payment in October of each year and the liquidation in December must be paid. That has been the case since we entered the European Union. Also, everyone remembers the unprecedented Apostleus mess in 2015 with the allocation and activation of their rights, with the consequence that the beneficiaries collect the advance in December and the repayment in May 2016 - has never been done this before - depriving thousands of professional farmers, old and new leased rights, but also rights from inheritances and domestic transfers. These are tragic mistakes that he is trying to correct now, but causing new injustices to producers who pay for his own insufficiency. That is why there are strong protests by producers today. Mr. Apostolos only on one thing tells the truth: that since 2014 there is no fine counting. There is no reason why our government has drawn up a concrete plan of action, the so-called 'action plan', which we have literally implemented, in cooperation with the European Commission. It was our government that ripped out this fine. Mr. Apostleu found everything ready. The Minister has referred to the grazing land, to the additions to land. Seaweeds for silk ribbons! I don't have time to talk. Heavy talk that says nothing, as every little and a little changes the number of areas of grazing land. The rural world doesn't eat spoon. He knows that for the first time the Samara - Venizelos government has increased the aid budget to farmers from 300 million of the previous programme to 400 million. Each year farmers receive 150 million more aid. We provided an additional EUR 100 million annually for the compensatory compensation, in accordance with Regulation 1378/2013, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities on 23 December 2014. Since Mr Apostle mentioned the related aid, which says that it increased it from 63 million to 124 million, I have to tell him that this is due to the fact that there was no interest in the farmers' rights which were transferred to the associated aids. It must, however, be admitted that for the first time our work has been carried out, and this has entered into the scheme of linked aids, ovine and caprine animals, cattle and poultry, which are refreshed for feed adequacy, in order to build a domestic livestock and to strengthen the national product of feta. Mr Apostle's speech also had two-tiers on the government's tax achievements as far as farmers are concerned. What should I comment on? First of all, the Minister believes that the tax rate of 13% of L.4172/2013 is higher than the tax rate of 22% to 45% that they decided to apply and that the tax resulting from this own rate is lower. What can I say? That the science of mathematics and economics raises hands up? That's no longer wisdom, it's not tachyping, it's not alchemy. It's what the people say, the Karakiozi account! So I'd like to freshen up his memory once more. Let me remind him that agricultural aid and subsidies have been taxed from 22% to 45% since 2015 for the first time. Because he said that Law 4172/2013 taxed from the first euro, I would like to tell him that it is the fact that agricultural subsidies in 2014 were not taxed. Let me remind him once again of the interpretative statement by the then Minister of Finance in the vote on this law, recorded in the Minutes of the House, that subsidies and allowances are not taxed, as well as my statement, as Minister, in October of the Step, that for me it is the red-line subsidy tax. There was a similar statement and attitude from then Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. To return to Mr Apostlelos, who made the mistake of referring to the operational fishing and sea programme at 523 million. Only what he missed him from saying is that this program, too, we tabled it in October 2014. Compared with all the fisheries programmes for the first time, we doubled the funds, in fact by 87%, which has never been done in time, and this thanks to the excellent cooperation we had with the Commissioner at the time, Mrs Damanaki. Let me know how much of this money Mr. Apostle has been absorbed? Not even 1 euro! As you hear. For three years, half a billion euros have been molding unreliablely in the unreliables of Mr Apostle, and the same is true of the Agricultural Development Programme, of EUR 6 billion. These two programs, as you know, have a multiplier character. If, therefore, they were to be exploited, you can see how much income tax the public funds would be collected, how much VAT the state corps would be collected. If you did all this, you would not abolish with the 2018 budget the incentive of the reduced rate of VAT on the thirty two Aegean islands. You are literally pluralizing our heavy industry, tourism. To come to a timely subject. Mr. Apostolos has been misled for six months by peach producers who have been destroyed by the three-day naturality of the rains of July. Let him stop hiding! Let us put out this unheard of, for a third-world country, business to place out-of-institutional irresponsible bodies and players to make assessments of the enormous damage and to gather statements and put in place the ELGA regulation that covers it all! Let us also implement the promise made to the peach producers of the damage suffered by the Russian embargo on our exports. Mr. Apostle was promised at the festival in Veria that he would give them area support. In fact, it was committed to bringing this matter to the first Council of Ministers in July. Since then there have been five councils and there have been no words and no evidence. Ladies and gentlemen, the only consolation within this tax office of Armageddon is the personal commitment of Mr Mitsotakis to a brave reduction in tax rates as the only prospect of attracting investment, as is the road map of exit from the crisis presented by the PTH and the axes to which the New Democracy Government will move tomorrow. That is why it seeks - and it will gain - self-reliance and at the same time aims at wider social consultation and cooperation, an essential prerequisite for the good of our country. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the first cycle of nine colleagues with Mr Ioannis Plakkatakis is closed and Mrs Gerovasili will follow. Here you go, Mr. Placiotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at a critical time for our country, but also for the world, we have been discussing the items of the 2018 budget in the last few days. I beg your pardon if I am going to be a little burnt, but I must point out that this government, if there was even a little political emotiveness and had a sense of damage to the place, should have withdrawn the budget we are called upon to discuss. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's critical and unstable period in which world changes are taking place at both political and geostrategic levels, we are talking about a budget that is a gravelaze for the country's development, a budget that makes the middle-class poorer, increasingly impoverishes the weakest social strata in our country, literally kills the dreams of young people and shows them the bourgeoisie towards the host. Ladies and gentlemen, at today's juncture, in Europe, in the south-eastern Mediterranean, in the Middle East, where threats are increasing and intensified, the issue for all of us must be how we are going to make Greece a strong economic, a stability pole in the troubled region and a strong factor in international developments. Unfortunately, however, for Greece and the Greeks, the fate of the country manages a group of old communists, apprenticeed magicians, who, with a lack of vision for Greece of tomorrow and their failed choices, have condemned our country to stagnation and decline. With their populism and intoxication, they lifted the country's exit from the memorial to the Greek people in 2014 and loaded an additional EUR 100 billion in debt on the back of the Greek people, depriving them of any prospects for the future and turning the country into a powerless proverb, spectator of international developments, where they will be under surveillance and comitology until 2060. The third budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL, ladies and gentlemen, is an excessive austerity budget, since the winter Greeks will pay twenty-seven new taxes and twice higher VAT. It is a budget that is socially abstract, since it includes EUR 1.9 billion pension cuts and social benefits and, at the same time, it is putting a knife to health expenditure, after it cuts EUR 350 million from its budget. In relation to shipping, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out that, despite Mr Kurublé' s deed and rhetoric, the situation is as follows. Let me refer to three specific points. First, privatizations. From the sale of public enterprises, agencies and infrastructure in the country, we have gone through the continuation of the dismantling programme designed by the previous government, but which is also done wrongly and manually, and there is a significant delay in time, so that many of them are either poured or literally in the air. The recent example is the privatization of the Thessaloniki Port Authority, where there was a problem and indeed this privatization is in the air, because of one of the bail letters that the consortium was obliged to deposit for the 67% of the shares in the EAF. Since there was just a state-owned Russian bank, a new guarantee letter has to be issued by the central government of Russia. And I'm asking: did the GOI not check the solvency of this Russian bank when in just four months is the third state-run Russian bank? So I expect a concrete answer from the co-government. Why did he not ask for a guarantee letter from a more remarkable credit institution, and he knew that there are certain problems with the Russian state banks? Of course, today, Mr. Kourublis comes and it goes on to say that the port of Piraeus is a thirty-eighth port in the motion of a container. Of course, it has risen from about a hundred in 2007 to thirty-eighth, but this is thanks to the visionary policy of Kostas Karamanlis. I would remind you that the whole of the opposition was against this privatization. The second example is how you legislate in maritime tourism. In the recent bill, you imposed a new tax, a fee for pleasure boats and boats, where the cost of berthing is increased. Secondly, it is promoted by the Ministry of Finance, which abolishes the exemption from VAT for professional vessels under 12 measures. I would like to remind you that this arrangement had been brought to an end a year and a half ago by Mrs Papanatsiou, and then she was withdrawn because the government partner had reacted. What happened between then and today? You know, ladies and gentlemen, who will be affected by the abolition of this regulation? 60% of enterprises mainly active in mass maritime tourism, sailing. In addition, I would like to ask: What will happen with the companies that have ordered specific recreational craft and these will be delivered in 2018 and have not calculated the payment of VAT? What's gonna happen? Will they return the deposit? It must also be borne in mind that the local shipbuilding industry, which is active in this sector, will suffer enormous damage. So you cannot impose taxes on the one hand and, on the other, move on the marina segregation, where you are supposed to create a favourable environment for attracting candidate investors. So these two things don't go together. Please take a look at it. Finally, I would like to make a reference to maritime education. The conditions are now mature, and we should move on to the establishment, creation and establishment of private maritime education. Quite simply, the world's first shipping must become a global training centre for shipping. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. The period we have to vote on this year's budget is a turning point for the country's future and the future of the Greek people. This year's budget does not serve the country's development needs, and it is now far from the Greek citizens' demands, so the New Democracy, as a responsible party, as the party of the major national choices, will vote against the budget under discussion. In conclusion, I call on Mr Tsipras and his government, even now, to understand the scale of the problem they have created and to make sure they bring the country back to normality, to reconcile them with the harsh reality experienced by the Greek people, due to their unreasonable political choices and to take action to alleviate Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Plakkatakis, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u36	In a minute, Mr. President. Mr. Tsipras, for the good of the country, stop deceiving Greek citizens and living your illusions. Understand that with your lies you have deceived the Greek citizens, but you have deceived them for some time, but you will not continue for much longer. Your Greek people have understood and will soon send you to the headquarters of Antipopulation and will register your works and days in oblivion of history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u37	The Minister has the floor, Mrs Gerovali. Then there will be a series of colleagues, and then the Minister, Mr Papadimitriou. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understood today, Mr Tragakis, because while the New Democracy and in 2016 and 2017 has a central political choice to call for elections and a key political account, it did not succeed, because it had not been declared by congress in the year of the election. While now, who declared it a electoral year in 2018, you are likely to get better. That's how you can imagine. But you understand that you should have thought that this left parentheses account that would end in six months, in one year, in two years, in any case does not succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u39	That's not necessary. Three years is a long time. That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u40	So now you have declared it and the year may be better. In any case, however, we will be here next year to see a new budget which we will certainly be proposing. This budget will have our entire plan for the post-mortem period, in a stable way, but in steady steps, so that the country never returns back. It will, of course, be justified, as we now deserve, for our difficult tactics, the difficulty we have had with the implementation of another memorandum. But today this choice is justified because the exit from the memorials is actually visible. This was done with great effort, both on the part of the government and on the part of the Greek people. So today we are in a position to say that we are close to days when the results of the country's fair growth and productive reconstruction will be in favour of many. Those who have made most sacrifices over the years, many, will gain more benefits. We also restore at the same time injustices and ensure that they are not repeated, we solve problems and at the same time guarantee that these solutions will be lasting. This is how we also faced the reconstruction of public administration. First of all, this means improving the efficiency and efficiency of services, meaning structural reforms and not horizontal budget cuts and redundancies, it means investing in people and new technologies. Because ultimately the unfair neoliberal choices, defended by the previous governments and still defending them, have also been institutionalised by European institutions, but also by the European Court of Auditors itself, which said that the European Commission was unable to provide quantitative, qualitative analyses, for the two main aspects of these, which your government, gentlemen of the Civilian Anti-Population Officers and not only, has baptised'reforms', i.e. the reduction of civil servants by 50 thousand in the 2011-2015 period and the completion of the compulsory withdrawal of fifteen thousand employees by 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been called upon to raise a considerably devalued public sector, with a rapid deterioration in the average age of human resources and with a clear undermining of a significant number of services. You have inspired and defended and implemented all the things described and for which the European mechanisms are now apologise, but not the politicians who have ruled this place. And on the one hand, you continue to give up on us for the collapse of public structures and at the same time for the expansion of the state with party armies. Another title of empty content for the creation of impressions alone, as well as another contribution, of course, to the well-known fake news that you are enjoying, but also bad services in this way you are offering the Greek people. I would remind you that the social automation implemented in previous years of the conflict had a direct objective: defending the principles of neoliberalism, a core of ideology, namely, a shrinking of fundamental functions of the public sector and the social state, deep maintenance and satisfaction of the interests of closed and small groups. Of course we don't imagine that. On every occasion, the members of the New Democracy - and today on the public word - reveal them. It is only yesterday that we heard the President of the New Democracy repeat once again the abstention of neoliberal policies towards everything in public. The President of the New Democracy has confused cynicism and analgesia with sincerity. Because it is huge that the current leading group of New Democracy is moving from the ideological principles of social liberalism. So what did they say yesterday at this conference? Neither too little nor much that Mr Mitsotakis claims for himself anymore the role of Prime Minister - a public prosecutor by a dismissal minister. He publicly stated his intention to grant everything public in the private sector - I imagine he means education, health, control mechanisms, supervision and administration - on the basis of the best financial offer, thereby giving the structures - you remember he said even about the General Accounting Office of the State, he did not say so yesterday, he said so in advance - to individuals. You must understand, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, of the Anti-Population Officer, that the state and its public character have set a step - a step in time with struggles, visions, labors and sacrifices of the Greek people. And it's not a fillet for sale. This is not an opportunity to increase the amount of accounts of some in tax havens. We also see a more conscious political planning within all of this. We have seen the questionnaire presented to the members of the New Democracy in response to the conference. I saw a question which he asks: 'When the administration is called to the public, can it be allowed to participate as candidates and private sector officials?' What does he mean exactly? Why don't we replace all the services with private companies, get it done, shut it down? Let's say it clearly, completely. Because this unequivocal distortion of the liberal ideological base of the 1974 ideological class for the second time in the last five years is being attempted by the leading team of the New Democracy. In this sense, I am proud that after these two attempts, the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction still exists and not only exists, but the public's potential is in place and its role gradually restored. Because of course, if we had let New Democracy and the PASOK continue to govern, as it was then, it would have been abolished today. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the social state is being poured out when society is forced to operate on the basis of the rules of the strong, the rules of the market, the rules of profits and super-profits, the introduction of the logic of numbers and, of course, of tax havens. We, ladies and gentlemen, are establishing the public that will respond to the next day of fair growth by objective procedures for the development of human resources at all levels. This, of course, sounds strange because in the last few years, those who have been ruling us had become accustomed to direct assignments and placements of chosen ones with forgotten judgments of supervisors for ten years in the drawer. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] On the contrary, we are currently completing the position of the first twenty directors-general and financial through ASP to ministries and the positions of the thematic directors-general follow. At the same time, the communication of the sixty-eight administrative and special secretaries to the Ministries is being advanced. Ladies and gentlemen, the role of the public sector is redefined at international level. So our goal is the state's digital transformation. Because this is not the Ministry of Dismissal. It is the Ministry that needs to open the window on the 21st century agenda, the digital economy and open governance. With a view, therefore, to better service for citizens and businesses, with a commitment to transparency and quality of service, we are also actively dealing with bureaucracy by putting all the bases and implementing digital infrastructure projects. In line with modern needs, we implemented as a government the G - Cloud, a modern digital repository through the Information Society, a digital node that will safely host and support all public computing applications. In G - Cloud a central position is now occupied by the “DENMARK” system. This "DENMARK" that accused us of going to downgrade, blame, etc., is gaining its new dynamic form as it was already upgraded through G- Cloud's infrastructure. This ensures the uninterrupted functioning of the "GENERAL", despite the ever-increasing use and at reduced costs. In addition, we actively support the incorporation and expanded use of digital signatures in public administration. The digital signatures are provided free of charge by the certifying authority of the Greek State. Fifty-three thousand forty certificates have been issued to officials and individuals for free to date. At the same time, we are working on the relaunching of "CZECHIS II" to provide upgraded telecommunications services in thirty-four thousand points as a continuation and extension of the existing "CONTINUATION". It is a project that had joined the NSRF in 2007-2013, but was then abandoned. We have actually received an emblematic project, which we of course are determined to implement. In addition to the infrastructure we are digitizing for the functions of the State, we are already upgrading the Greek government's human resources register as the most famous Census, i.e. an online database of staff serving with any relationship of work or work in the public sector. By clicking on this basis we have implemented the single mobility system, a digital platform to speed up administrative changes. With digital organigrams, job profiles that were also created for the first time in the Greek public administration, we are giving a definitive end to the customer's, roussefhetological movements of staff in the public that required dozens of signatures and, of course, hundreds of man-hours. In this context, we are also promoting the work of electronic targeting, which is not arbitrarily imposed from above but results from open consultation procedures through the plenary management and department. Of course, in the same context it starts from the new year and the e-assessment of public officials is to be done at a lower bureaucratic cost. You all also know, perhaps apart from the President of the New Democracy who did not remember it yesterday in position, that the evaluation of civil servants was carried out with our own government. We will now proceed to electronic evaluation through the APRAFI system. In other words, we are planning digital projects which are interconnected with each other and not with fragmentary systems islands. You remember the usual practice of many years with the fragmentation of public money, with multiple systems, of which none was in touch with the other. Bad money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u41	Slowly, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u42	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll need your tolerance for a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the new year the process of implementing a strategic project for the public sector, the Single Human Resources Management System, which includes recruitment, service development, travel, education, training, public service evaluation reports, all the image of a civil servant, so that at the end, with a button coming out, without the whole process being required. We are doing all this, of course, taking advantage of international good practice and finding new sources of funding through strategic alliances. We have begun cooperation with the OECD on the gradual transition to the digital JEP and the upgrading of the entire JEP system, with guaranteed funding. We are in a phase of integration, in the final phase of submission of the project. Of course, I must say that our whole policy is central to open data policy, which is our strategic priority, because it strengthens transparency, reduces administrative burdens and further use of open data leads to new jobs. In addition - and I am ending with this, Mr President - it is also the flagship work of the national gateway of codification and reforming Greek legislation, a project - an intersection, a node where all information on codification and reforming legislation in the country will be collected. The technical draft budget of EUR 1.8 million has already been submitted and in 2018 this project is being implemented. There are many other things I would like to mention, but I do not take time. Our Ministry, with the assistance of the Ministry of Digital Policy, will implement all the necessary projects for the digital transformation of the state. I think that in a year from today, in 2018, when we are discussing the next budget, the public will now have a completely different picture so that it will really be a vehicle to move to another era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u43	The new group of colleagues who will take the floor is Mr Tsiaras, Mr Venizelos, who I imagine will come - will not be deleted - Mr Gakis, Mr Dousina, Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Giakoumatos. Then the Minister will take the floor, Mr Papadimitriou. I'm telling the names for whoever's not in the Chamber to come in. Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after several days of discussion, in a top parliamentary procedure concerning the budget debate, I am obliged to raise a question which I think to a large extent concerns all of us. It is a question which, in previous debates, the New Democracy's dear colleague, Mr Tasoula, had tabled this step by Mr Tasoula, from this point of view. Do you really believe everything you say, or do you say it for policy reasons? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I'm glad to hear you say that you believe them, because I think so too. But if you have to see the reality, I am sure you will conflict with it. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, what one ultimately describes from this Step, trying to applaud the government's choices, eventually falls within the well-known world of political mythmia, because all this concerns the virtual reality that many times attempts to present itself to the budget debate, obviously by dictatorial forces that constitute the current government. Do you know why? Because the normal reality of citizens is quite different. And this reality, ladies and gentlemen, is unfortunately inconsistent. I still hear the exhortations of today's Prime Minister, when he was Chief of Officer Opposition, when seeing the polling findings, he said, "What are you sitting around? Go away'. Do you see them today? Do you see that you are clearly missing New Democracy? Do you see that Mr. Tsipras is clearly missing from Mr. Mitsotakis in all the qualitative and quantitative characteristics? Do you see that reality itself says that you have lost the confidence of society and that in consciousness the well-known cases about the Ministry of National Defence in the last period have now been recorded as a major scandal? I would like to structure my speech on four axes, on the basis of what has been heard last week from this very moment on the Step. Firstly, it was heard that an anti-SYRIZA front is supposedly being formed. Mr President, if you see that around the constant views expressed by the New Democracy, a wider alliance is formed in society, which aligns the rhetoric of the other parties with ours, well you see it, that is what it is. But that should not just concern you, it should scare you, because it promotes the dismantling of the positions of the government. Secondly, with regard to what has been heard about the institutions that 'watched the carpet' by the previous government, I would like to remind you that it is the present majority that has been allocated to the institutions that it is not bound by the decisions of the previous government, and of course it would be revised immediately afterwards, when it became a government, on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic. Who pulled the carpet, I think we don't need to repeat it, because it is known not in Greek political reality, but in Greek society itself. Unless you finally have to find a reason to justify how you wasted this famous asset of Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Varoufakis, in the first half of 2015, thus losing our country's great opportunity to get out of the crisis and manage to stand by. Unless we finally have to understand what was said as the fig sheet again of this government, which discovers its next enemy, perhaps to justify the election defeat in the next election. It is also known that left syndrome, which always has to be seen in a metaphysical way behind any political development. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, because I have listened to many of the SYRIZA colleagues, I would like to say to you: no one has accused you of being left and no one has accused you of being liberal. We blamed you for not being left-wing or liberal. You're a government of about. Approximately socialists, but with a massive memorandum, with the abolition of strikes, with individual contracts of employment, with twenty-seven new taxes, with twenty-one cuts in the main and ancillary contracts, with 15 billion new inappropriate measures in the third memorandum and 5 billion in the fourth memorandum. And most importantly, you're about left-wing, why are you left-wing with Pano Kammenos, Mr. Phil? Obviously, we can't. Fourthly, for the State budget for 2018. Last year in my speech I said "I wish this budget could achieve the levels of the Greek economy of 2014". Because the actual budget for 2017 was intended to return to the Greek economy at the end of 2014. Unfortunately, three years later, Greece has not been able to regain to any of the financial indicators in 2014. You have received the country with a growth of 0.7%, which started with a recession and has constantly risen and now you celebrate growth when you fall firmly out of forecasts. Where's the 2.7% you told us last year in the budget? Not even 1.4% will eventually be. A year before the end of the program, the Greek has not yet reached the level of 2014. The economic climate index in Greece is at least 15 points below the level of the rest of the European Union. The overdue public debts and the funds have reinstated 130 billion dollars. Investments are in Nadir. With regard to international competitiveness - to remind you - we are behind Skopje, behind Bulgaria, behind Albania. Flexible forms of employment triumph. Again in November six out of ten new jobs are parttime. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the opportunity to tell you in the debate on social dividends that the government is constantly cutting off social costs, giving it a lobster on the other hand. That is to say, it gives a once-a-day allowance and cuts once and for all social costs and tax exemptions for the most vulnerable groups in our country. And before you chant three times, - sometimes we appeal to them for good, but we have the evil - Mr. Costello confirmed exactly this claim. Finally, stop saying that this budget does not include new measures. Aren't the single wage cuts not new measures? The definitive abolition of the CSCE, the deduction of the tax on medical expenses, the extension of the special solidarity levy, the end of residence, do not all constitute new measures? Here I must say to you - and I shall end, Mr President - that the Greek economy has two specific symptoms: it is tax fatigue and retiredness. We do not delusionally deceive that the issues of which, to a very large extent, the government's policy is guided, in other words, as far as the overtaxation of the middle class is concerned, are a precursor from which you will soon be exempted. And I obviously do not need to repeat what Mr Tsakalotos said from this Step and Mr Juliarakis, but of course also Mr Tsakalotos. We believe that, in the face of this incomplete policy, there is a credible alternative, formulated in the New Democracy's programme conference yesterday, a policy that unleashes the oppressed investment initiative, a policy of reform and major structural changes in the state that will change the profile of the Greek economy and attract new investments, create new jobs, restore normality to the economy and to the Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society wants work and stability, not allowances and temporary situations. I think the moment is quite appropriate. Time has passed. You'll understand soon enough. Regardless of what everyone thinks, the time of life and politics itself determines developments. Of course I am voting against the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I would like to speak for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u46	Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u47	Mr Chiara, I would like to clarify something you have spoken about and other colleagues have mentioned and because Mr Hatzidakis will then speak about this. 0.7% growth in 2014 has never been and you know it from the final figures given in the next few months, because that is how it is usually done. In May, the figures were clarified. There was no development in 2014. It was one of what you hoped for. Just like last year was 2.7% and he's going to 1.6%...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u48	Tell us the number. Can you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u49	Please, look at it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u50	It was positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u51	It wasn't positive. It was negative. It was 0.1%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u52	It was positive, it was +0.2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u53	All right, well, Mr. Hatzidakis will be answering anyway, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u54	We got a recession at 7.5% and went to growth of 0.2%. From 7.5% remission!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u55	Don't fight. Rehabilitate the evidence, that's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u56	Good. Calm the right wing and the left. Mr. Hatzidakis will answer after that. Mr Gatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Right and left were found to be seen by various speakers, depending on the position they currently hold. People who have so far shaped the economic and social situation in our country to a very large extent until yesterday can very easily talk about overthrowing a situation that they have created. Today we see that once again there is a controversy of political, no composition and no reflection. They are needs that the place has today and which the Greek Parliament should find in its pace. The budget is not a universal project that faces all the problems or solves every problem of Greek society today. They are the guidelines that mark the policy that each government wants to implement. Through its multiple levels of intervention we must calculate both our obligations and our commitments: our obligations as a state, such as the debt issue, and the rewarding benefits that the state must give to society, taking into account its needs. By minimising the social and microeconomic consequences of the memoranda on inequality and social exclusion, it must stand at this height, together with reforms designed to mark a different path to the country's governance. It could be said that in the political and economic context that we have the budget today is a budget for credibility, social policy and development. Within a period of uncertainty, in a constantly changing international environment, we are able to achieve it for the third consecutive year - and we will implement it - a budget that creates conditions for the country's smooth return to markets, without that being inconceivable, that the markets are the solution to our problem. It is a budget that will lead the Greek economy dynamically ahead. At the same time, the completion of the third evaluation, as well as the positive forecasts in the medium term for the Greek economy, broaden the prospects for a strong recovery of the economy and combined with the successful completion of the programme in August 2018, are finally pulling the country out of the memoranda, starting with the search for new progressive steps for our country. But there are three priorities throughout this period, two direct and one strategic. The first is that the necessary steps must be taken, namely voting on the prerequisites for the completion of the programme in August. The second concerns the debt debate and the appropriate preparation for safe and profitable exit on the markets for the country's borrowing. The strategic priority is the creation of a 'roadmap' on which our country should walk immediately after the exit of the memoranda. In this frame of reference, our budget is moving. Is it a development budget? Yes, one could say, if one used as usual selective elements of the budget to justify his view. For example, it could say that there is a growth of 2.5% and a primary predicted surplus of 3.82%, without any new measures, as claimed by the Equatorial Opposition, leveling out all reasonable continuity of the institutions. Is it a budget of credibility? Yes, one would say, since it is implemented properly and creates conditions for attracting investment, it stimulates productive activity. Is he a social justice budget? Here things are more flexible and nobody should speak not only with their minds, but also with their hearts and conscience. After three years with the well-known budgetary difficulties and the strong pressures, we have achieved at a cost - that is true - a soft adjustment with a social fine, such as the social dividend, access by all citizens to the public health system, the solutions we give day by day and by day in the issue of health and education, as the Minister for Education announced today. The social figure in the budget is clearly seen by strengthening social actions and the character at all levels. It aims at addressing child poverty and supporting the most sensitive social groups. But is this the left-hand perspective that we want to give? And here comes the subject of consciousness. I think not. One budget does nothing but reallocate revenue and make it costly. But where are the revenues, where do they come from and where do they come from? That is the classic nature of the budget. The budget of previous years raised revenues from the poor, from taxpayers, and transferred them to strong finances. To add, there was also an over-expulsion in revenue and, at the same time, over-consumption. So we have now come to have a society that is overcompensated and with overconsumption tendencies. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] That is what we have to deal with today. The SYRIZA Government should therefore find another strategic approach to this whole problem. I would like to say two things about VAT rates on the islands, with conscience and with heart. VAT on the islands is an institution that runs the whole economic and social life of the country. It creates competitiveness, creates an investment climate, creates employment enhancement, increase public revenue and does not do so because it has to do so, but because there is an economic, political and social potential on the islands that these things can implement. We must say that all these factors will be overturned by the abolition of reduced VAT rates. So I appeal to the Minister - and they are the finance ministers here - a last call for us to face up to this abolition that we are being imposed on us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u58	Good. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u59	These measures cannot be replaced by equivalent compensation measures. For example, the tax equivalent is already an obligation of the state and should not be given in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u61	Please, Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u62	Yes, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u63	There was a debate here before you came, Mr President. I asked for the floor, as the President of Parliament had said something. One clarification I want to give. We have followed all the Greek state's accounts and balance sheets since 2015 for the past years. Indeed, as the President may remember, after 2015 - I do not remember what year we were closing - the Ministry of Finance said that it was clarified that 2014 did not close with 0.8% growth, but closed with 0.3% growth. This year, however, it became a second correction from the Ministry of Finance - not from us - that the 2014 growth was over by 0.7%. That is the reality, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Costas Dousinas from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u65	We have heard, Mr President, over the past three and a half days about numbers, about statistics, about programmes. I would like to comment on the debate itself, as a nationalist or speech analyst would do. So we had three kinds of opposition strategy: firstly, that 'the government is very left-wing, almost Stalinist, hates investment and Europe, makes us Venezuela'. Secondly, "SYRIZA has become neoliberal, impoverishes the poorest, abolishes the strikes, and even members of the New Democracy would like to be members of such a party". Finally, that "the SYRIZA is neither left nor right, nor just an immoral lover of power". These contradictory strategies reminded me of a medieval Kazuist story that Freud mentioned in the "Dream interpretation". Someone borrowed a pot from the neighbor, but returned it broken. When the holder of the casting requested compensation, the lender used three arguments: first, 'I turned the cast without any damage', second, 'the cast was cracked when I borrowed it' and third, 'I didn't borrow any cast'. Freud uses this story to show that dreams and unconscious have contradictions that are connected. That and vice versa are at the same time. The three contradictory arguments of the Opposition seek to create a false truth. Let's see them one by one. Firstly, the end of the memoranda next August concludes policies that are the heart of the ideological programme of counter-population, but to which its governments have failed. "The Memorandum is a blessing" we were told. "If we hadn't, we should have invented it." That and worse we heard at the New Democracy Congress this weekend. However, the Greek society has rejected the further shrinking of the social state. Those who lived in Britain on Thatcher remember that when we allowed our contributions to private insurance and not to state funds, they began the collapse of the health system and the tuition fees of public universities went to 9,000 a year. On the contrary, we increased the social costs of protecting the most vulnerable layers by 1 billion. We gave a two-time dividend to Christmas, we increased the research budget, which is of interest to me, from 0.67% in 2011 to almost 1% of GDP today. We have created a thousand eight hundred scholarships for doctoral and postdoctoral, and there are currently two and a half thousand young scientists, who will be financed by the public budget. This is the left perspective, in difficult circumstances. Secondly, as Marshall McLuan said, "I have inconsistent principles and values. If you don't like them, I have others." So, as neoliberalism is not convinced, he married to the extreme right, the nationalist neo-conservatism, and on the other hand to the 'Make Europe'. In the recent debate on the future of Europe, we heard from the New Democracy colleagues:'more Europe, more Europe'. First of all, there was no plan, there was no knowledge and Europe has become something like salt: the more we put to food the tasty it is. But, of course, it is possible - and often is - to destroy health. We have understood the importance of the European crisis from the outset. We are the first fact that, before we become a government, he said that this European model does not work, that we need to create a new model, re-establish Europe, put the social pillar, development and democracy in the centre. We did conferences and studies, we have know-how and knowledge. What Opposition does not have and simply tells us 'Home Europe'. In this sense, in order for Europe to survive, it must do - and social democracy already seems to admit it - what we have been saying has long been re-established. We are therefore the only real Europeans. Thirdly, the lack of strategy leads to black propaganda, demonisation and political panic, the dissemination of false information and rumours about dangers and failures, to create social horror and awe. The panic focuses on something different every two to three days: Floods, judges, Exarchia, sales of bullets, Erdogan, "donorous" characters, Alexis Tsipras, Kammenos, Kontonis, Kotzia or Toska. Psychoanalytical theory can help us explain this logic of cast and panic. When one suffered a severe mental trauma, in this case the loss of inherited right of authority, it is dealt with by two defence mechanisms: transport and dismissal. According to the transport mechanism, “our own failures and disasters are the work of others. We lost power because you were lying. We are not responsible, but we are victims." Then the denial comes: “It is all a bad dream. Soon the country will wake up from the nightmare. The dismissal and humiliation of SYRIZA will bring Greece back to national harmony!" Right always said that there is a national interest beyond ideological differences, but SYRIZA does not fit into this nationwide understanding. The leaking of confidential documents, the innocence of the President of the Republic and the government over the Erdogan visit, which all analysts - and here and outside - considered it a great success of Greek politics. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. All this has affected foreign policy crucially, and we are in a problem at the moment, that there is no agreement on these big issues. This is how we end up with moral arguments, as always. Since the first day in this House, I have seen the contempt of counter-population in the Sans-Culottes, invading the'saurus', their court and their seat. Power must go back to where it belongs, to those who have been born with silver spoons in the mouth, to the dynasties that pass the seats and ministries from father to son and daughter, the paradise and the tailor of Panama. From this side, here, I don't know anyone who joined the Left, either because he was waiting for the Kingdom of the Heaven on earth or some work in a ministry. We, if we lose the next election and those who are not Members of Parliament, will return to the jobs we have done all our lives: teachers, lawyers, employees, farmers. That's our moral advantage and we're never gonna lose it! But also for the Left - and I end with this - the end of the Memorandum of Understanding means partial acceptance and implementation of policies, with which we are and remain opposed. And that's our contradiction. The next 12 months will be the most critical. We must gradually move from the parallel programme facing the humanitarian crisis to a social transformation programme of continuous transfer of funds from capital to work and power from the state to the citizens. So we make equality and democracy a horizon of our policy and change the class association of forces. Freud used the example of pots to interpret a shameful dream of someone watching himself be naked in public. The logic of the New Democracy pot shows - I think - that the king is naked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u66	Kostis Hatzidakis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I see that the SYRIZA ward has been dominated all these days - and now - celebrations, a climate of satisfaction and joy. I don't want to ruin it - holiday days that are - nor will I make designations. However, I would like to refer to some of the elements in order to disprove me then, if you think that one of the things I am going to say is inaccurate. What are you telling us all these days? Three things wholesale: you tell us that you are helping the poor - you have a great heart - that the country with you since 2014 has gone forward and that from time to time we will also say goodbye to the memorials. I guess that's what we agree on. I'm right. So let us see what has happened: you are celebrating, ladies and gentlemen. Let's see who else celebrates with you: They celebrate those threatened by auctions, as, according to your own testimony from this Step in December 2015, the protection status now in force is 60% shorter than the Samara Government did. Secondly, they celebrate - obviously - with you those who will see from time to time - by your vote tomorrow - to reduce the benefit for heating oil, all these industrialists and shipowners who benefit from the heating allowance. They celebrate with you those who will see - by your vote tomorrow - the discount on medical expenses is lost. They celebrated with you the taxpayers who saw you grow twenty-seven times today have paid taxes and who will see another eight times increase with your vote tomorrow. And they celebrate with you all the households called to pay more accurately for pasta, canned, coffee, packed foods due to the increase in VAT from 13% to 24%. You were - so I've been listening since I was a student - against indirect taxes, because they are paid by the poor and all you do every year is to increase indirect taxes. So you are defending the poor, but you are making them poorer every year, ladies and gentlemen. One of the prisoners. Let's go to second argument. You celebrate why Greece has gone ahead in recent years. Indeed, he has gone ahead of a topic and to tell you what it is: overcrowding. I recognize it. A target had been set and you have exceeded it because of the squeeze of taxpayers and the sub-implementation of social costs. But please tell me: I remember hearing you say both here and on television and on radios 'bravo, live, we managed to have lower targets than the surplus'. It was good for you that you had lower targets. Now you're celebrating for the opposite, because you've gone beyond these goals. I mean, Cologne, everything is well burned if SYRIZA's done it. You celebrate both black and white for everything and opposite. What do you think? What should I choose from all that you've said? So let's go to the rest. You claim that Greece has moved forward compared to 2014. Yes, sir. The growth rate of the economy is the lowest in the euro area. The gap is increasing even further, while anticipated by the European Commission growth of 2.5% and 3%. We have the world record on red loans. They've been shoved over your days. We have, even today after the interventions you have made, the public's dues to the private sector higher than 14% compared to the end of 2014. We had in 2016 a low-period investment - it was not perfect for Greece, but it was a low-period investment - and high-tax. Unfortunately, we were champions of overtax in 2017, among the thirty-five countries - members of the OECD. We have 100 billion late payments to private individuals in the public sector due to overtaxation. In competitiveness, according to all the indicators of all international organisations, the country has been crumbling over the last three years. On the basis of the report by the International Monetary Fund, the sustainability of the debt was heavily burdened by SYRIZA and ANEL. The economic climate index remains lower compared to 2014 and the capital control is always here to remind the amateurs of the Varoufakis period, but also to act as a barbaric for the economy. Does that mean the country went forward? The words will lose their meaning! He's taking the car back, and you guys imagine he's headed forward! What can I say? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I move on to the third claim. The country is exempted from the Memorandums. Yes, sir. That's right, if you think so! Tell me now: did Cyprus, Portugal and Ireland, which were indeed exempted from the memos, agree - if anyone knows it, to tell me - after the end of the memos in these countries to cut off duty, cut off a wage from their employees? Did they agree after the end of the memoranda in these countries to cut off a pension from pensioners? And what you've done with your earlier actions, so where will SSM be here running a test on our banks for thirty-five years, is the end of the memorials? That the superstition will be here to manage the entire public property for ninety-eight years is the end of the memorial?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u68	Ninety-nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u69	For ninety-eight from now on, Mr. Comrade, you're smiling. You're smiling, but you're signing them. You said the opposite, and that's why you're squeezing in polling. You're coming down with an elevator and there's no bottom in this path, because you're laughing, but all those who believe you are getting upset, because they don't only see failure, but they see arrogance and constant hypocrisy from your side. In any case, the reality is here to oppose you. That is why I think it is clear to us that much greater importance will be given from now on to our positive proposals, to our positive reason - that was the main conclusion of our conference yesterday and the other day - and less to oppose you. You're a government on a runway. I would just like to give one more thought, Mr President, and I would say it for the Chamber and for the Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u70	And finish, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u71	Yes, Mr. President. There are many people who say - not only neutrals, but also fans of the New Democracy - that, as we go with that government, the country will be dragging. I think that's wrong. The country won't be dragging. It can flow for a while with this policy, but in the medium term the country, if it continues on this path, is heading for destruction. I say it with knowledge of exactly the word I use. And I'll explain right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u72	And with this 'estimating' message finish, Mr Hatzidakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u73	Our country is losing its productive powers. We invest in young people, giving hundreds of thousands of euros and they are leaving by tens of thousands abroad. Will the country be rescheduled without productive powers? That is why political change is an urgent matter. SYRIZA was measured, weighed, found incomplete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u74	You didn't weigh us well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u75	It needs a change of policy at the place, so that Greece can be found at the core of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u76	Good. Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u77	We really deserve a better Greece, but with this government we are not going anywhere. Happy holidays, nonetheless!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u78	Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u79	Here's the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Yakoumatos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to participate - with our vote, of course - in a theater of irrationality. I will explain why it is absurd, apart from the fact that this budget is unreasonable. I'm saying that, why do you know what you remind me, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Columbus, who, when he started for America, thought he knew where he was going and when he arrived in America, did not understand where he was. That's SYRIZA's logic today. And I say that because you don't know where you're going or what you're doing. The budget that the government brings to the vote reveals the collapse of illusions and illusions. You have been cultivating your entire years. It reveals your weakness that you cannot see reality. We are, ladies and gentlemen, in the eighth year of a prolonged crisis, a crisis which, while starting as an economic crisis, turned it into a political crisis, but mainly into a deep social crisis, with the ultimate responsibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL. You didn't understand, but the Greeks and Greeks are suffering. They live in misery, frustration, constant poverty. Besides, it proves this social grocery stores, social medicine, arrays. You need to understand something. Two world wars lasted eight years. This crisis is going through the ninth year and you haven't even managed to get us out of the capital control. That's who you are. This is the harsh reality, unfortunately. But citizens are not misled. They also have memory, but also judgment. They won't forgive you all your oligories and all the myths and tales of Halima you've been talking about for so long. For the truth, the time of the crisis comes, the time of truth and as much as you try, the tricks and do, whatever you share, gifts and thoughts, whatever you do to get caught up in power, the people will give you the answer to the elections. Bright field whenever you want. And tomorrow! This is Rhodes, here's the ball of the election! You signed, ladies and gentlemen, two memorandums, you committed the country to austerity for half a century, and for one century you committed the property of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, this 'poor and poor', which you are playing fake Zorro, is a shame. Can I tell you why I'm saying this? You've increased taxation. It was fair for low taxation and the injustice was acted, for the Greek citizen to be taxed today, with the result that 100 billion is due and 30 billion is due to the EBRD and every month 1 billion - now reached 1.2 billion - to be due. That's the heaven you made us! It was unfair, and you acted that NSA they took. Only from the ESS this year did you get 238 million from the poor man, from the micro-retired person. But it was unfair for the micro-retired, the long-sick sick old man not to deduct his medical expenses. It was unfair and you did it. You cut them, too. It's 121 million of medical expenses. You abolished the tax deduction of 1.5%. By changing the method of calculating contributions, we have 59 million euros. With the increase in VAT on the islands, we have 59 million euros. You have reduced - even though it was unfair and did - the heating allowance of EUR 58 million to poor households in the mountains. You froze the pensions. You've made cuts on the trustees' payroll. Remove all benefits, especially in third and quadruples. Today the demographics in our country are a national threat. However, the greatest lie that will be chasing you all your life is "No house in the hands of a banker". You say 'Yes, but the first residence does not come out'. Who says that? Do you know what it's like to owe and have five kids at home and not to sleep at night fearing your confiscation pool will come in the morning? We had a law until 31-12-2014 no residence should go out on the auction. Here's a bright field, we'll vote. PASOK's asking for it and everyone. Bring a law that says at least 31-12-2018 will not be auctioned. Why don't you do it if no one goes home? Why don't you do it? You don't, because you're hypocritical and dangerous. The other sleeps with insecurity at night that in the morning he'll lose his house. That's the biggest lie you've ever said. Let me remind you, too - I will not take stock, you know better than I do - that in 2014 I was at the Ministry of Development. Growth was 0.7% after years of recession and the time we were dating in the clearing, you took us into the dark. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I won't say about unemployment. I can't make it. Leave the unemployment story. I was Secretary of State for Employment with responsibility for employment. In 2009, from 11.7% we got her from PASOK, from the GPSD, she went to 7.3%. This unemployment has been left to us. For the 7.3% that became 27%, the New Democracy is not responsible. Samaras and Venizelo took her to 26.5%. And you're talking about unemployment? Are you proud? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] What's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u82	You're a little confused, Mr. Yakumato.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u83	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u84	It's all right, Mr. Yakumato. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u85	Didn't you understand what you're doing? I didn't mess up. I'm fine. I'm telling you, Samaras took unemployment to 27% and took it to 26%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u86	By who?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u87	From GAP, from George Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u88	Finish, Mr. Yakumato. Time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u89	All right, Mr. President. Well, for one thing, be sure. No matter how much trumpets you do, no matter how much mud and fly, no matter how ghettoically and develop, it is sure that the polls will come and then the delusions and lies will turn against you and the people will give you the answer that you need, that is to say, to go home. He said to our colleague earlier: 'We, the Syrians, if we lose, will go to work, because we have jobs'. Don't you look, Mr. Colleague, the 2014 "substantial" you entered the House in 2015, see what income your MPs had? Most had 300 euros a year of income. They were unemployed, unofficial.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u90	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. The State Secretary, Mrs Papanatsiou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u91	I'm just gonna need a minute, Mr. President. I have been given the opportunity since Mr Hatzidakis placed on the overrun, to say that revenue really is non-measurable revenue, what we have received from a better result from many structural factors, such as the expenditure side and the ECA due to limitations on 'black' labour and increased employment. However, it is also important to succeed in the revenues from VAT, as I mentioned in my speech. You will give me the opportunity to present the evidence that Mr Stakouras questioned the day before yesterday that I was in this House. Indeed, the revenues from VAT from 2015 to 2017 increased significantly. And one reason for this was the electronic transactions, as was stated in the Bank of Greece's report. And that is exactly what I am tabling, so that you know that the elements we bring and the positions we make are clear, with figures, which I submit to the House. And we're not lying, like you told us. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned information, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Another point to increase surplus and revenue is VDI, which you all know has brought substantial revenue to the surplus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way in which this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-four students and students and three attendants - teachers from the Kastristis Patras High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Economy and Development Mr. Municipality of Papadimitriou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time it ends in 2017, which is expected to be the first year after many years that will record a positive growth rate for the Greek economy. After nearly a decade, Greece has come out of the tunnel of crisis. This is also demonstrated by the individual indicators and sizes of the country's economic activity. At the same time, the positive statements of international political actors in both Europe and America about the positive course of the Greek economy are now becoming more and more frequent. No one can question that anymore. The 2018 budget provides for an economic growth rate of 2.5%. This provision is strictly feasible and is based on the following axes: First of all, there is a positive contribution from private consumption in particular 0.8% of real GDP. This forecast is supported by a more rapid increase in employment and a continuing decline in unemployment. Secondly, the forecast for growth rate is based on the contribution that will also be made from gross fixed capital formation, which is expected to increase by a two-digit figure due to the more favourable investment environment on the basis of the reforms implemented, but also increased demand. Finally, it is estimated that there will be a further improvement in the actual deficit in the balance of goods and services in the form of increases in export activity. The Greek economy has the dynamics of achieving all these predictions. For example, I should like to refer to a number of numbers that we should keep in mind by entering into 2018. The first three quarters of 2017 recorded positive growth rates while already revised upwards in the first two quarters. This is also expected to happen for the third quarter of this year. At the same time, note that according to the data provided by ELSTAT last week, industrial production in October 2017 increased by 1.3% compared to September 2017. The index of business confidence in Greece for September reached 100.6 points. In order to understand the importance of this figure, I must stress that the average of this index in the period from 1985 to last year was 100.7 points. That is, we have already almost reached the average of the business confidence index over the last thirty years. The same positive picture is given by the responsible procurement index, or by the so-called PMI, of Greek processing. This index increased in October to 52.2 points. At this point I would also like to explain that according to the responsible procurement index of Greek processing in 2017 the largest manufacturing activity has been observed since 2008. As announced last week by the European Commission following the meeting of the Governing Council of the European Investment Bank, Greece is a second series of investments depending on GDP for December. This also shows the dynamics of the Greek economy in relation to what is happening in the rest of Europe. The Interministerial Committee on Strategic Investment approved three strategic investments totalling EUR 600 million, and is to meet again at the beginning of the year. Our ministry unlocked the investment plans of previous development laws of EUR 688 million. In the area of foreign direct investment, which is perhaps the main growth indicator for an economy facing liquidity problems and whose businesses have as a major problem financing, in the first nine months of 2017 foreign direct investment increased by 69%. This is a spectacular increase that is difficult to find in advanced countries. I would like to point out that we have been struggling all this time, having an open line of communication with interested investors, in order to show with evidence that Greece is a friendly destination for investment. The 69% increase in foreign direct investment signals that foreign investors' confidence has been recovered and that they are going to implement investment projects in our country, which I am sure will continue next year if we stick to our goal. As far as exports are concerned, it is sufficient to say that there has been an increase of 7.6% annually in the first nine months of 2017. This is undoubtedly the best indication that the Greek companies have entered a phase of extroversion, unleashing the stagnation at which the economic crisis had thrown them. As a percentage, the corresponding percentages of the last years of the prosperation period, as is often called the pre-crisis period. In addition, I would like to provide some information on private consumption, namely consumer confidence in the Greek economy. One of the first victims at the level of recession indicators was consumption. In Greece this appeared even more because the productive model adopted for a decade was based on consumption, but also on lending. To have a comparison in front of us, it is sufficient to say that in October 2011 consumer confidence in Greece had reached 83.8 points. The index has now declined rapidly. In September 2017 it was confined to less than 53.7 points, thus showing that the climate has changed. This is a major role in reducing household debt as a percentage of GDP. I would also like to emphasise the debt issue of small and medium-sized enterprises that there is a great deal of scope for improvement that will be very much covered in the year to come, using the extrajudicial mechanism that we have adopted in 2017. The positive figures of the Greek economy are not a natural follow-up that says that after a great recession the recovery comes. Indeed, after a fall, no one can say how long this fall will last, or whether an apparent rise is temporary or stable. In the case of Greece, however, the recovery has been stabilised and we are now making moves within and outside the country in order to accelerate recovery and to get into a new productive phase. In particular, as far as the national Public Investment Programme is concerned, for the second year there has been an increase in the national strand, and today we have reached EUR 1 billion, contrary to the previous governments that have reduced it. We have also focused on regions and municipalities with new investment programmes with targeted approaches or with specific needs. I would like to point out here that, as is the case with most economic elements, the overall elements of the Public Investment Programme will be at the beginning of the year, bearing in mind that great absorption takes place at the end of each year. In addition to the implementation of the Public Investment Programme today, the amount of EUR 470 million from a specific committed account paid and thanks to which all the major roads of the country have been completed. Also with regard to the development law and the accusations made by the Anti-Population Act that it remains inactive I would like to stress that more than seven hundred EUR 2 billion of investment projects have been submitted. The two-thirds of these concern the very crucial sectors of industry, processing and agri-food. I would also like to mention that the tables for the classification of the first four schemes will be announced immediately and in the next 10 days the second cycle of submission of applications for the four aid schemes will be called for. Next year we will proceed to a series of positive reforms that will address, for example, newly-born businesses and the establishment of the Greek Development Bank. Greece is the last country in the European Union that does not have the very important financial instrument of the Development Bank. Since the first days of this government, efforts have begun to convince the institutions of the need for the establishment of the Greek Development Bank and finally, its establishment has been included in the Eurogroup communication last June. In the first weeks of the new year, we will proceed to the public consultation of the bill establishing the Greek Development Bank. As you know, we have already signed a memorandum of understanding with the French Development Bank, and we have been in contact with the respective banks of Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, China and Brazil. We believe that through the Development Bank we will be able to create micro-credit programmes and provide loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the Greek economy and which were hit first of all in the crisis. I would also like to refer to the initiatives that we have taken as a government in the field of international economic relations. We should note that the Ministry of Economy has adopted an extroverted policy with other countries, which did not exist in previous years. We believe that the development of economic links with other countries is the best condition for attracting private investment and increasing exports. Strong economic relations with some countries are also a prerequisite for encouraging the strengthening of political ties, especially when it comes to a country such as Greece that is at the centre of international developments. I should like to point out that, beyond the contacts we have with investors in Germany, Austria, Sweden, the Netherlands and France, we are in close contact with the British side. Just two weeks ago, in cooperation with the Embassy of the United Kingdom in Greece, a forum for cooperation was organised which will continue and will be promoted in the next period. For the first time, a Committee on Economic Cooperation between Greece and the United States was set up following the decision by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and American President Donald Trump. As you know, I've already met three times in less than six months with my American counterpart Wilber Ross to attract investment and promote exports. Mr. Ross has accepted an invitation we have addressed to visit Thessaloniki during the International Exhibition there in September, where the United States of America will be the honorable country. In addition, I have met my Turkish counterpart, Nihat Zebekshi, with whom we will continue to work closely and at the beginning of the year, we will reinstate the Joint Governmental Cooperation Council of the two countries which are scheduled to take place in Thessaloniki. At the same time, we are in open contact with Israel in order to give a new impetus to business cooperation. From Israel, too, we have received many ideas about the bill we are preparing for newly-born businesses. I still want to focus on the possibilities for furthering Greece's economic relations with Australia. In addition, I visited four Australian cities and met with expatriates and Australian investors who do not have Greek roots. The investment interest I encountered is indicative of the prospects we have for working together, which showed that only a few days after my visit there the Prime Minister of Victoria visited Greece. I am pleased to announce the establishment of the Enterprise Greece office in Melbourne. This office will be the first office of Enterprise Greece outside Greece and we think it will help attract investment and promote exports. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude my speech on the 2018 budget, I would like to point out the following. Greece is currently at a critical turning point for its economic upgrading. We should not let the sirens of the micro-stakeholders stand in the way of accelerating the country's economic progress. For the year that comes, it is a national task to be able to keep the steering wheel of the Greek economy firmly in order to be able to make decisions that are permanent in time towards the relief of the Greek people through so many years of crisis. What we need most of all is social stability and national understanding to make the bet of growth. We must understand that it is not only in the interests of our own, but above all of the future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u94	So do we. Mr Pappas, the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u95	It is enough to vote for the 2018 budget to see the magnitude of the Greek economy's inadequacy with the global unfavourable economic situation. Acknowledgement especially for the Memorandum Greece of the "first time left": the numbers prosper but the people are unhappy. Greece is now a country that has been literally and substantially bankrupt. In no case today, unfortunately, for us Greeks, it does not have the necessary means and tools to hope for recovery, such as the national currency and healthy and strong primary production. The worst of all, however, is the undeniable fact that the population of our country is ageing. Greek youth is migrating us. At the same time, there is a gradual replacement from the newly introduced illegally into our territory of all-government and other religious workforce. The figures therefore prosper according to government claims because exports increased by 9.5% on an annual basis while imports increased by 3.1% in the second quarter. Yes, of course. At the same time, however, internal consumer demand is shown to be reduced by an example of food retailing, the ratio of which fell by 0.4%, which is deliberately avoided in order not to demonstrate the illusion of recovery. However, on the market, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that there is not even a friendly environment for the productive sector of the Greek economy. Primary production is an area that has been growing for decades. Today, basically, it does not exist as an estimated size and parameter of our national economy. And for the private business it has become clear that the current co-pilots who are moving faithfully within the framework of memorandum cheques have managed to create such a hostile framework and environment that no private company and any private businessman Greek or foreigner thinks of investing in establishing or continuing to operate within Greek territory. The main reason for this is the incomprehensible and incomprehensible economic and development criteria for overcompensation of any private initiative which does not exist only in the private sector, in the business world, but also in the entire Greek people. The 2018 budget with the expected sums to be recovered, 2,1 billion euros, please, is money coming from taxes, of which 813 million euros relate to newly emerging tax measures. The budget provides for a primary surplus of 3.82% of gross national product and an economic growth rate of 2.5%. Overruns in the Memorandum for the year 2018 are estimated at EUR 587 million, which is 0.32% of GDP. In this pragmatic and clearly material direction, therefore, the 2018 budget provides for a general increase in state revenue, which is estimated at EUR 54.2 billion, compared with EUR 52.1 billion this year. In particular, the tax revenues it budgets at EUR 48.1 billion, compared with EUR 47.2 this year. Total, i.e. the expected increase in revenue of EUR 951 million. More specifically, according to the forecasts of the new budget, increased direct taxes of EUR 478 million are expected compared to 2017, an increase of EUR 456 million in income tax for natural persons by EUR 179 million above property taxes, i.e. EUR 473 million in indirect taxes above 2017, an increase of EUR 78 million in VAT revenue for 2017, also increased consumption taxes of EUR 439 million in 2017. That is how the total EUR 2.1 billion is coming out and in relation to the newly emerging tax measures is essentially the supplementary budgetary measures for 2018, which were voted on together with the package of measures for 2019-2020 and for which, unfortunately, no counter-measure is foreseen, which is something that coexists with deafening silence. The total yield of 813 million euros to do what? To do this - mockery, like what you will give the young unemployed, the EUR 450, which means? It means two exits for a drink and a new cell phone. This, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do you call it a recovery and a social state? The $450 pocket? Is that the growth? The figures are prospering, however, because Greece remains at the top of the relevant European Union list, with 23% unemployment, the highest in Europe. If we look at the statements made by Draghi, Governor of the European Central Bank, the actual unemployment rate is 31.3%, when in 2006 before the crisis, it was 12.9%. According to the report by the Greek Statistical Authority, ELSTAT, on living conditions, 39.9% of the population in the country lacks basic material goods and services, such as food and heating, with this rate increasing to 44.5% of the population between the ages of 0 and 17. Almost one in six households, i.e. 17.7%, resides in homes inappropriate. In total, four million five hundred thousand Greeks - I am not saying them, ELSTAT says them - face the risk of poverty and children being threatened more. Indicative for children is that about two hundred and thirty thousand household children live in households, live in households without any worker and virtually in households with no income. In conclusion, I would like to say that the confirmation that the numbers prosper, but people are unhappy, also results from the information provided by the Independent Public Income Authority. The late debts of the taxpayer Greeks in the first half of 2017 were discharged to EUR 5,47 billion. In total, three million eight hundred thousand Greek taxpayers and businesses owe the Greek State more than EUR 95 billion, which will increase month by month. The taxpayers are unable to meet their tax obligations and leave unpaid taxes on them. At the same time, the control mechanism of the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence goes on a daily basis to some nine-monthly seizures and bank accounts commitments, but also to confiscations, now, for due time in tax of EUR 500. Take the houses of the Greeks and for 500 euros! And you prove your election falsehood, the "no house in the hands of a banker", which in practice you do "the houses of the Greeks in the hands of the taxis". So this is as far as the real portrayal of the Greek economy is concerned. It is an illustration that is also presented to us through the 2018 budget. This is where the following question arises. One will say: "What do you propose? What is the proposal of the Golden Dawn?’ So listen: Immediately and unilaterally denounce the memorandum - and under no circumstances renegotiations, prolongations and restructuring - as well as the deletion of illegal and burdensome debts. This is the only way out for the Greek economy and for saving the nation, along with the reintroduction of the national currency, which will, anyway, strengthen national independence. No Europe can stand above Greece. No director of Brussels and no loan shark and his agent can decide on the position of the sovereign Greek people. We have also decided that our Chief, Nikolaos Michaloliakos, has said so many times here in plenary: if we are to choose between Europe and Greece, we are choosing Greece. We live in Greece, we support Greece and only Greece. The memorials proved to be catastrophic. They caused irreparable national, economic and social destruction. They have brought dramatically downwards in GDP, unprecedentedly increasing unemployment, as we said before, in Europe's highest rate and indebtedness in debt. Also, an issue that no one touches and no one touches on from the remembranced governments of the anti-grassroots arc: the claim and registration of the landlord and military compensation in the budget. We say that, Golden Dawn. In the Memorandum of Understanding, in which the 2018 budget also goes, the Golden Dawn says "no". On the contrary, the Golden Dawn says 'yes' to national production, which is also a fundamental programming principle. We want the re-establishment of the primary sector, the absolute priority for the development of Greek agricultural production, the crafts sector and the ever-changing Greek industry, which means the possibility of productive work for the Greek people. We look forward to the immediate and effective fight against unemployment. To solve this problem, the Golden Dawn, among other things, proposes a simple and immediate solution: deportation of all illegal immigrants, which means hundreds of thousands of new jobs for Greeks. The Golden Dawn had always stressed the last five years of its parliamentary presence here in this Chamber that the debt that has accumulated is not real, as was demonstrated by the obsession and protection of the European Union in the George of ELSTAT. Debt is forged so that the country can artificially enter memorials so that it can be led to mortgage and ultimately to the sale of public property and, above all, its subsoil. This criminal conspiracy, in which all the parties of the political establishment participated with their vote and tolerance, led to three recapitalisations of the so-called systemic banks, with the money that came from the confiscation of the private economy, cuts in pensions, wages, social benefits and all kinds of benefits. In this way, the current government, as the previous ones have done, continues not only the disastrous work of selling our country, but also improves it, for the benefit of lenders, since it has been tied up by our country for decades. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone that the way out of this vicious circle of implementation of the plans of the new order can only apply one national government. So we are the unstable factor and the only reason why homeland can hope, try and fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u96	Mr Spyridon Lappas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. We just heard the representatives of the Officerial Representation a moment ago accusing the government and SYRIZA of being caught in a myth. In fact, he says, not only now, but even before he took over the government, he lived with myths. I could tell them that they live a myth, because all their political philosophy, perception and practice is followed by a star that leads them: the so-called self-esteemed prophecy, which never comes out, is not fulfilled. Do you know why he's not coming out, gentlemen? For political science knows no prophecy and divination in political life. Everything that is expected to be based on objective, evidence. And you never did that. Is it accidental, then, that you don't have a record coming out of you - not one - for two, three years? What did you say and what was actually confirmed, what was that implemented? Let something come out of you. What are you doing now? You come out of the left to the left government. This is all you have left as a account. You keep doing it. You're also doing another one. Looks like from the day you elected your new chief, you're making a sprint, you're making a speed path. Now that you realize that the road to elections is not a speed path, but a marathon, make sure you don't burn. 'Cause with the spride on a marathon or you're burning or digging. That's what they say. Take it into consideration. Today I was very surprised and sad at the same time, listening to a man whom I greatly appreciated. And I appreciated him not because I knew him from political life, but from his position on the committees. I'm talking about Costas Scandalidis. From what he said, I have kept two phrases: one is the unconditional tradition of our partners, the unconditional tradition of the country and of the country by SYRIZA. Secondly, he said that we are living a myth again and that clean exit is a myth. I was really saddened and stood by the fact that Mr Scandalidis, a man of noble, mild tone, at least in terms of phrase and rhetoric, came and joined himself and joined the same people and the same groups who speak only of fear of citizens, with a rhetoric of destructiveness, that the country was supposedly destroyed. I could speak to Mr Scandalidis, who has been a Member for many years and a Minister for many governments - as well as to Mr Scandalidis - in the same language. In January 2015, were you first elected to the Greek Parliament? For the first time, do you observe these phenomena, which you are today denouncing and blaming us? And I notice him today, because I appreciate him. And I speak to him personally, because he will listen to me. Dear Mr. Scandalides, phrases, rhetoric, language you should know that he is an embryonic of thought and consciousness. I shall use a saying by Emil Sioran, Mr Dousina, who said that 'we are not inhabiting a country, we are inhabiting a language'. Mr Scandalidis also raised a very serious issue of cooperation. In fact, you, gentlemen of the Democratic Association, until yesterday, of the Change Movement, today, are listening to the anguish and the offspring of your comrades and competitors in Europe and around the world? Have you ever wondered why, with your rhetoric, it does not co-ordinate, does it not agree with any other group of socialists and social democrats? Did you ever see such a poison spilled at the expense of the Prime Minister and the country by socialists and social democrats? Have you ever wondered why this is not happening and why are you only doing it? You are the only ones in Europe and in the world, I would say, who you are doing so. You're pouring poison against the government and the Prime Minister. I heard Mr. Plakkatakis, too. But now I have to answer that question. He spoke of the sale of public services and structures, when the ink of the decisions of the conference of the New Democracy, in which one could say that one thing is coming out as the core of this conference: divestment of everything, everything that has to do with public policy, the private sector, with a top and main account of what you said, Mr Stakoura, about private insurance. Isn't that a bomb in compulsory social security? What did you say? Aren't you opening a "window" when you say people choose EFKA or private insurance? You are the only party in Europe that puts it, even from the right-wing people. No other party puts it. In any case, you say that we are the ones who sell out public services and structures. That looks like a comedy. Mr. Hatzidakis, a man and himself of mild tone, said the country was heading for destruction. You can attempt to destruct with mild words, with mild expressions. That's what Mr. Hatzidakis did. Mr. Hatzidakis, can you tell us what SYRIZA received in January 2015? It is what the President of the Parliament replied to you a moment ago. You have a myth of yours, too, that you supposedly handed over the country with 0.7% growth. You had zero growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u98	0.8%. The evidence has changed and it's even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u99	It was said before. Mr Stavoura, in order to agree on some things, you want things - you want feelings of guilt, you want to be honest, you want it because it escapes from the Eurogroup? - Mr. Dieselbloom the previous days. Listen to what he said: "Greek taxpayers have been forced to rescue foreign banks. The Memorandums were imposed on Greece in order to save foreign investors. Rescue programs have been a product of improvisation. Those who then criticised the Memorandum were right." It is not an announcement from the SYRIZA before the elections and it is not even the government or some Members' announcements. They are words of the President of the Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u100	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u101	Yes, Mr Panayotopoulos, 'all good'. Do these not make you apologise to the Greek people, who come now, in 2017, and say all that we said before January 2015? Don't you feel the obligation to ask for an apology? Aren't you the ones who said "heavy, Sibble" and "Grown, strong"? Didn't you say that if the memos weren't there, we had to invent them? In any case, let us not now make a paradox. As regards what Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Tsiaras said earlier, we must agree on one thing: either the figures and the figures given by the government are false or those who use them are 'cooked'. What's wrong with that? Aren't we supposed to find a stable to evaluate the numbers? What's the constant, gentlemen? What are you talking about? So when the government and the government parties say it, we should not see who others confirm it or not, who are they? Find me an organization, a party, a leader, Europe and the whole world, that agrees with you. You want Deutsche Bank? You want the rating houses? You want Merkel? You want Schultz? You want Moscovisi? You want Pitella, Mr. Loverdo, your friend? In the end, tell me what the constant will be with which to assess the figures and the figures. We're giving it to you. You come and say exactly the opposite. Can you find a confirmation of what you invoke? You can't find it. Everyone agrees with the numbers, the facts and the facts...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u102	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. Put it in perfect and wonderful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u103	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would just like to say the following. I could tell you here what your attitude is in the years that SYRIZA has been ruling. Even in the committees of inquiry you have raised a 'Mazino line' to support the 'black' years of your own governance when the only weapon you had and now - and I will tell you why - is fear. Fear, however, suits the fearers. And you're scared. You did the same in the 2014 European elections. You did the same in the three elections that you were defeated. You wanted to cause fear to public opinion that the disaster is coming, SYRIZA, and you want to cause it because as long as you continue to rule the country is driven into destruction. With fear you can't make politics. Fear only suits the scared ones. And you're scared, gentlemen of the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u105	Here you go, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u106	I would like to submit to the Minutes, on the occasion of the position of my colleague and the Minister, Mr Tsironi, beforehand, three elements. First of all, who were the 2012 and 2013 budgets for 2014. For development, we have caught and overcompensated the goals of both years, which no year has been done by SYRIZA. I shall therefore submit to the Minutes again the budgets that we have done and the fact that we have exceeded the development objectives. I repeat that SYRIZA has been unable to achieve any objectives for development over the last three years. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased New Democracy provided growth, according to ELSTAT's previous figures, of 0.8%, +0.8%. I'll testify. Then the economy returned to the recession, remains in recession and this year it fails to catch the target. Thirdly, because I have heard it from colleagues. Indeed - I have no delusions, I have tabled the truth since 14 May 2015 - other than the budgetary and other cash. In cash, New Democracy delivered cash on January 25th +1.9 billion euros. I'll submit it to the Minutes. However, according to the estimates available, there would be a cash problem at the end of February. That is why there was the two-month extension at that time. While the government knew this, it asked for another four months to extend the programme and Mr Varoufakis asked for the money at the end. It does not mean that the country would not pay wages and pensions. After all, the SYRIZA government paid salaries and pensions. It means that he should have done more repos, as he did later on. That's the truth. Consequently, the SYRIZA Government failed to succeed, failed the development goals it had set in recent years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u107	Thank you. Mr. Screkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I will not try to convince the honourable Member about the correctness of the information which the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Stagioras, has just mentioned, because to see and be able to read the facts really of the Greek Statistical Office, he will first have to take out the party glasses. Why cannot he not see what the Greek Statistical Office says in writing on growth for 2014, which, according to the revised data, was 0.8% on an annual basis. In addition, the third and fourth quarters of 2014 had a growth of more than 1,4 percentage points. Since then, the Greek economy has fallen into recession again, my dear colleague. And the bad thing isn't that the Antipopulation account doesn't come out, like you said before. That's not the bad thing for the Greeks. The evil for the Greeks, Mr Colleague, is that, unfortunately, none of what you have announced is being implemented. This is the bad thing, that your election announcements do not come out of the government, i.e. SYRIZA - ANEL. It's not the problem that we don't get what we call counterpopulation. We are talking today, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for 2018. 2018 will be the fourth year of governance of this country by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL. The question that arises, ladies and gentlemen, is whether, in the end, the 2018 budget, even at least, approaches the election announcements twice in the two national elections in 2015, for which the Greek people voted on and trusted you. Three things in general you said in 2015. The first is that you will protect pensions and the weak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u109	We did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u110	In 2018, in addition to the pension cuts that you have made three years now, the budget that you have brought to the vote includes additional cuts in the EKRF, that is, the allowance paid by the lowest pensioners. What, too, were you saying all in 2015 and in previous years, until you came to power, with one mouth, one voice? 'Sympathy', 'no house in the hands of a banker'. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it is the year when no legislative provision of your own government protects not one single house.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u111	There's the law of Katseli.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u112	In other words, today the biopaulder, who took a loan to buy a house, put his family underneath and don't pay for his loan, because either he lost his job or his income decreased, is not legally covered by your own government and the fear that tomorrow's house or the day after tomorrow can be auctioned. Thirdly - and with this I am ending - you have promised - the world knows them very well now in its torso and we do not have to tell him, we simply mention them to you, which shows that you are forgetting them - that you will increase the incomes of the Greeks and that the minimum wage in the private sector will be EUR 751. And today the entire Greek society has realised that the generation of 360 euros is here, it has come and it is very difficult to change and it is not, of course, going to change it. The result was, Minister of Economy and Development, the declared incomes of private sector employees, public sector employees, pensioners and free traders to decrease in 2016 by EUR 2.6 billion. So the road that the country has taken is too turbulent. And finally, this 2018 budget, in addition to what we said, did you not keep anything from what you said, could you not do anything, at least one out of ten - at least it is a budget that demonstrates that your economic policy succeeds? Listen to two numbers: In 2018, the new measures you will bring are planned to provide net revenues of 50.5 billion euros. Do you know how much revenue the state had in 2014? He had revenues of 50 billion euros. Four years after 2014, having brought measures of EUR 10 billion plus EUR 9.9 billion in 2018, with most of them being tax and fiscal revenue measures for the State, four years after this storm, the Greek state has the same revenue as it had four years ago! If you believe, Minister of Development and Minister of Finance, that this proves that your policy has succeeded, I will tell you that four years after and with 12 billion extra taxes and cuts, to achieve the same income as we had at the time, it demonstrates the complete failure of your policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. But that's not all that proves. It shows that no year from now on, if the same policy goes on, you will not achieve the objectives of revenue if you do not bring any new measures. And that is why in the 2018 budget you bring new measures, but also in 2019 you have already voted for new measures, tax-free reduction and further reductions in pensions. How proud, ladies and gentlemen, do you feel about what you have achieved three years now? I do not think you should celebrate what you have done in the Greek economy and in Greek society. You betrayed partners, betrayed ideas and betrayed those who trusted you: Greek citizens. And the smuggling goes on. We, ladies and gentlemen, cannot vote for a budget of mockery. We must end the smuggling in Greece now. That is why we are not voting on the budget for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the University of Patras (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Ithanasia Ignastopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Mr Mitsotakis called on all of us to "in order to leave the most dangerous, incompetent and most immoral government of post-population". It would be laughing if there were no reasons for this society to stand up and analyse it a little. As the wise people say, 'Every man with his cubit cuts off the sail'. We are therefore concerned, on the basis of the budget, to see what the cubits of each of us are and who calls for a coalition on the basis of this cubit. First of all, our covetous position demands, in particular, the state's prosperous and redistributive role, because that is the only way to protect the weaker classes, especially in a time of crisis. This is the only way to guarantee social cohesion. I will mention some figures: The welfare expenditure in 2015 was EUR 750 million and in 2018 it was EUR 1,85 billion. Of these, the additional EUR 260 million was granted for family allowances, i.e. we had an increase of 40%. And only this increase in family allowances shows that this government wants to rebuild a European state, since it supports society in a time of crisis. The unarmed city was this state when the crisis came. It was an unarmed city, because you never took care to build a strong, irreversible, non-custodial welfare state. I have no time to discuss this in detail. Two things I will say: firstly, the socialisation of maternity, with an allowance from the first child, especially in a country with a demographic problem, as France or Sweden did. Secondly, the socialisation of the household, with school meals, and the socialisation of childcare, with nurseries, as all European countries have done with a real welfare state. The unarmed city was the state, because your cubit never saw that. The role of the state is redistributive. You are constantly talking about overtaxation and, indeed, classes have been overtaxed, especially the middle class. But why? It is shameful for this state that after two centuries of life it has not managed to bring about a fair tax system, which will all be taxed according to their incomes, and to turn to the weaker. Nor did the PASOK do that, although it was a demand of social democracy since the 19th century. Why, is that so? Let's not talk about this right now, we'll find a lot to talk about. What did we hear from Mr. Mitsotakis? What did we see from the questionnaire distributed to your conference? Private insurance - take note of this, because this is what we need to attach great importance - which means that it is broken down once and for all not just the welfare state, but solidarity between generations, social peace. Everyone's trying and, if he does, he's done it. If he doesn't make it, it doesn't matter. For us, above all it is the solidarity of generations, the voices of history at the forefront, the unemployed, things that you consider to be tips. This state which, for so many years, has not put an unemployment benefit a little bit on the job and does not degrade the unemployed before the crisis, not the crisis. That's why I'm talking about an unarmed state. Secondly, respect for public Greek and European money, because this society pays it dearly. Say what happened in the past few years? I won't say. You know them better. There's a murder for development. Our development is based on three pillars: public investment, private investment, social economy. Don't be like that. One number I will tell you: There is no stabilisation throughout the international literature in crisis if we do not have public investment. In fact, the national part is very important. In 2019 public investment in the national strand will reach EUR 1.55 billion, which on your own government - New Democracy and PASOK - continued to decrease. Your modernisation, your reforms, your development? One example I will give you, which is shameful and you should have asked us a hundred thousand times for apologies. The Corinth - Patras National Road do you know how many decades we waited for it to be built? Do you know how much money was wasted on contractors? For you one is the guide: contractors and PPPs. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because I don't have time, I'll just say two more things. The state is the instrument for you to play the power of your own families and friends. They had rights and they must have the few. The others, the many, have privileges, no matter how much the state has, and you're in a hurry. When the state turns a little, privileges are cut, but the rights of the few must be protected. We have seen these with the licenses of television channels. What European state does not pay to those who have television channels? Tell me here: What other European state does the judges not say 'whereabouts' and is it not in the sunlight? And you're trying to incriminate us that we've ever been Venezuelan, sometimes Stalinist, or anything like that. You know what kind of state you've built and that's why we found ourselves a powerless state? We, too, are trying to set up society up in crisis, but also to set up this state. It was everyone's father's vilae. That's why Mr. Ramfos said you were on the right side of history. History has many sides and it is very disturbing that for the first time the other side of history comes with weaknesses, with problems, with a thousand coercives, to which you have put us, and the other side of history is asking for its rights. Yes, "the most immoral, the most dangerous, the most incompetent government after the Transmigration"! I wish we could set up what you, with an effort of many decades, have ever tried not to set up in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too. Mr Panagiotopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 'if my theory doesn't match the facts, so much the worse for the facts', a wise man once said. He did not, of course, have SYRIZA when he said that, but, if he lived today and lived in the government, he would be proud.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u117	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u118	Let's hear his name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u119	Let me say what I have to say. Look into it, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u120	This is an unauthorized hint. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u121	Fine. You be ashamed and not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, protect the speaker. Don't worry about it. He can't say "shock" to a disrupted orator.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u123	I shall therefore speak about facts, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to talk about the real balance sheet of this government. We've got one. And keep the numbers, the calculations: Firstly, an increase in VAT rates twice. Secondly, abolishing reduced VAT rates by 30% on thirty two Aegean islands, which will apply in a few days' time. It was the VAT for which Mr Kammenos said he was illegal and unconstitutional one day after voting for the relevant regulation in the Greek Parliament. Thirdly, an increase in the rates of corporate income tax, a reduction twice the tax, an increase, a permanentization of the rates of solidarity levy, an increase in the rate of insurance, an increase in the taxation of rents, abolition of one-off income tax rebates, the abolition of tax exemptions, an increase in income tax, a reduction in dividends, a reduction in excise duty on oil for agricultural use, an increase in income tax on farmers - I have been plundered and yet I am not even half! -, an increase in the cost of raw materials in agricultural production, an increase in insurance contributions, an increase in the cost of HICP on land, plots, businesses, open apartments, an increase in the tax on investment companies, an increase in the tax on cigarettes - which, of course, do not smoke all the world and which has been smuggled into smuggled, other loss of revenue for the State - - -, an increase in the excise duty on beer, an increase in the excise duty on alcoholic beverages - especially in the Dodecanese - - - -, a duty on coffee - in all indirect taxes and therefore socially unfair, but coffee - has also been taxed -, an increase in gas, heating and traffic, a special charge on fixed-telephone bills, a special charge on pay-TV, a duty on hotels and rooms, a tax on electronic cigarettes, an increase in tax on cars and in cars. Twenty-seven new inspiration and vote, of course, by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the Government of Social Sensitivity, the Government of the weak, etc., etc., etc. For 2018, measures 1,9 billion. You have taken care of the imposition and strengthening of these measures from 1-1-2018, in a few days, i.e. by voting already in May 2017, to respond to the argument ‘no, no new measures’. So what do we got here? Apron transfer of goods - services from the low VAT rate, new reduction in ESA for a hundred thousand beneficiaries - not those included in the social classes of the powerful or the having, of course -, a new 50% reduction in the heating allowance - will greatly appreciate this in northern Greece - and here you are giving a one-off allowance to young unemployed people, and this is supposed to be the counterweight -, abolish the social budget benefits of approximately 1.5 billion, abolishing all benefits to beneficiaries of the social solidarity allowance, abolishing unemployment benefits for new entrants - of course, here you are giving a one-off allowance to young unemployed people, and this is supposed to be the counterweight -, abolishing poverty and natural disasters, new reductions by the abolition of the 1,5% of the tax deduction, new wage cuts in public officials and orders, levying nights, as today, as I said, in two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-th-th-th-th-dollen-dollen-dollen. For those who cannot handle it - I risk only depleting my time by listing new taxes and reductions - there are also the necessary recovery measures and the liberalisation of electronic auctions, which I would remind you were the number one reform in justice, according to the list of prerequisites you voted on. A key aspect in your economic policy is taxes and other taxes. Because, despite the glamorous announcements of the fight against tax evasion, instead of collecting 3 billion in six months, you have raised 100 million in three years, because you do not understand and still do not understand that, both in economic theory - the famous 'little leifer' - and in practice more taxes do not involve more revenue, but probably more tax evasion and, of course, a greater wave of business leaving abroad and, even more, a new phenomenon, which has occurred in recent months, that of black, uninsured microenterprise, i.e. small and medium-sized professionals, who choose to work uninsured, because they cannot afford to appear and pay for the contributions you have made to be shielded forever, as Mr Katrugalos said, when he was a competent minister, our insurance system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because it is your conscious political choice to increase the public, increasing expenditure and, of course, sending the bill to the Greek taxpayers. Because, after all, it is your very conscious political choice - and it is your ministers who have made it publicly - the collapse of the middle-class in overtaxation. You have made Greece an endless poor house and you welcome your social sensitivity to share allowances and aggregations with those who are poor or are at risk of being bankrupt - and here is the critical - faster than ever before. Give benefits, of course, from the alleged surpluses of EVA, because you did not pay pensions to a few hundred thousand pensioners and hence the surpluses. But Greece now owns a new negative distinction: Tuesday in Europe...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u124	Put a perfect one, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u125	I'll put it on, but give me the eight minutes you gave the previous speaker, Mr. Vice President, please. I'll finish, I promise.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u126	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u127	You're interrupting me at seven. Eight and ten minutes the previous one spoke. Don't ruin it now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u128	Be fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u129	Don't shout!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u130	We ask for equal treatment, nothing less, nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u131	What you're doing is dishonest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u132	What do you think? It is the language of your mind, if you have minds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u133	Equal treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u134	It presides your party feeling of the chair you sit on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u135	Here's what I'm telling you. Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u136	What can we do? Let allowance cuts and taxes be less, consume less of my time by listing them. Greece now has a new negative distinction. It is third in Europe after Romania and Bulgaria to the lack of economic and social goods in EUROSTAT. In other words, Greek citizens are now lacking the basics. Eight out of ten - yesterday are those measurement numbers - they think we're going from bad to worse and nobody believes you. You insist on the narrative 'no new measures, clean exit from the memoranda' - we said before - but this narrative is based on high primary surpluses, i.e. a continuation of austerity by 2020, with suffocating supervision of the Greek economy by 2060 and, the best, with an excessive amount that will apply until 3016, that is, ninety years. So the exit isn't that clear. You're telling us everything's going well. That's what Wall Street coded and former guru of "extremated". He assures us of a positive investment shock. Really - has the Minister just left - how many investments have been approved, Minister, in your new development law which has been passed since June 2016? How many have been approved? Has not a new investment been approved?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u137	Not even one! There's not a single investment!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Panagiotopoulos, please put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u139	On the contrary, we have Squirrels, Greek, Afantou Rhodes! This is not the investment paradise that comes, but the disinvestment hell that has already come. That's not how it's done. It can only be done by political change, because you can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u140	Mr Megaloustakas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our obligation here is not only to listen to our interlocutors and other Members, but also to convey what we hear out in society and the market. So I will start my speech today, as what I took from the world is that he is confused, that he is in a confusion, as he hears in the last few days everyone talking about growth. He hears about getting out of the memorials, and that can't live it. She can't understand where everything is based. This is all due to the fact that there is overtax, both directly and indirectly. They constantly see their income falling. You are the government that brought the generation of 360 euros. You are the ones who, together with the former ones, brought the half-employment schemes. I don't blame you alone, because evil starts much before. In fact, you've combined all this with a lack of benefits. We have seen in the last few days what the student homes are in. We see the health shortages. We see too many deficiencies in general. All this, if combined with the above, creates in the world an abstention towards all of us who are here. Unfortunately, the Brain Drain continues. We've seen how many young people are leaving. And how can they not leave, since to do something of their own, to open up their own business here, in front of them, a gulgot is coming in and a gulgot is being set up? We cannot say that we are competitive as an economy when we have a 100% tax advance. We can't think that's how growth will come. We cannot say that we support the small and medium-sized enterprises when putting contributions at that level, even though they are not taxed when they are regarded as income. That's unrealistic. It doesn't fit the human mind. That's why the world is confused and indignant about what it sees and hears from us here. It does not in any way see the development that you are all saying. You may say that you are setting up a social state, but that is not the case either. With one allowance per year, when this money comes from citizens' overtaxation, we cannot talk about a social state. You're destroying middle class. You're hitting the small and medium-sized businessman. You're hitting the employees. And then you want to say that you are a left-wing popular party that gives hands to the weak. There is no point in saying that, in any case. The other thing I hear here, not from society now, is the old people with the young to blame for who's fault, who didn't bring them, who didn't bring them, you brought ENPIA, you keep him. Yeah, you did that. You did it. Another thing you have done is that with the second memorandum it was decided that our incomes will reach those of the competitive countries, namely Portugal, Romania and Bulgaria. The previous speaker said what the levels of our economy are now, which are right together with Romania and Bulgaria. That's where we got it. They came after court decisions which were for the benefit of pensioners. And you come as a left-wing government, and you say that "with the third memorandum, we will bring equivalent measures to compensate for this loss, the loss of illegal reductions". You denounced them. And all I'm saying, to see them more carefully, they're in these excerpts from the second and third memorials, which I'm going to give to the Minutes for you to have them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, the inaccuracies, irregularities, mistakes and lies have led us to this difficult situation. People have lost their trust. He's lost his faith. He hears "political" and has him combined directly with lies. You can't go talk. And the worst of all is that he's lost his hope. Get out and take a walk to your town, to your county. If you see the condition of the Greeks, you will feel despair. No one believes the political system helps us out of the crisis. And so far, we haven't helped. We've barely devalued the political system ourselves. And it makes sense and then citizens do the same. Sadly, you were completely opposed to what you advocated before becoming a government. We have seen many of you proud of the credit you receive from the bodies that, until before you came here, in the government headquarters, you blamed. We even see you seeking such rewards and fellow yourself with them. These are big mistakes, because you are really destroying the confidence people would have shown toward us. But let's see a picture of our economy today. Let us talk a little about the proportion of retired people with the working population. At the moment in Greece, according to data for the second quarter of 2017, the people employed are at the figure of three million seven hundred ninety thousand four hundred, while the unemployed are in one million sixteen thousand sixteen thousand and the economically inactive population has four million three hundred and seventy thousand fourteen thousand. In other words, the employment rate is 41.3%. The unemployment rate is 21.1%. Half of the country and more than half of it belongs to a set that does not work. Let's see who these workers are now. Public workers are eight hundred thousand six, private employees are a million six hundred thousand, and professionals and farmers are in one million of three hundred thousand. What do these numbers tell us? They tell us that about 2.8 people are maintained by the private sector. So this looks like a picture of you? Do you think it can go on? Isn't it paradoxical? And all of this, when a public employee has an average salary of EUR 1,075, while a private employee has EUR 777. Is that fair? Is that how we support the state of justice? It is very easy to locate the paradox in this whole situation. Let's go see more of our image in the economy. There are still bodies that have not been mapped. We don't know what they're doing, how many employees are there and what the cost to the state is. We've reached a level, he says, 95% mapping these agencies, that is, nine hundred seventy-seven. There are some fifty more, that is to say, who do not know what they are doing, how they do it and why they do it, like the body that has forsaken the patents and receive sixteen wages. I don't remember. It was a clue he gave us the river. The government, which has burdened both farmers and none else, has come. You tax with 22% to 45% on agricultural subsidies and subsidies. You come in and you put 24% on the field. And, listen - listen, you come and put an advance on the farmers, who are exposed to a simple weather phenomenon. For example, when the olive has the flower and rain, it will not produce it. If he throws a hail, the fruits will be crippled. How do you ask them? You know what's gonna happen? Are you guys madames? I don't understand that. And all this, along with the increase in their contributions. Okay, so growth isn't coming. I am also going to dwell on two more very important areas for our state, which is in the budget. It is that of health, where costs and funds are reduced by 350 million, on the pretext that we are finally turning the foggy landscape into a good situation. And you say that the money lost from the budget, which is not basically given to health, will balance from the influx of money from the EEA, a battering agency, which we have seen so far has been the negative that has brought to the whole health system. You're not strengthening public hospitals, you're not strengthening the CTE. And that will not benefit Greek society. Another area which I would like to raise in the time left is that of education. It is good that for the second consecutive year you do not reduce and increase expenditure on education in the budget, but that is not enough. If we want this dubious change to come, we have to start from the bottom, from the beginning. And these are our children and the education they receive. That's what we should care about. This little increase is not enough. We have seen the phenomena I mentioned before. There are problems with student feeding. There are problems with student housing. We see what the gaps are still in schools, which you used to be proud of that there are no gaps. There are many problems in education and they are not solved by small increases. That's where we have to invest. And we should not care about the cost of this investment. That's our future, and that's how change will come. The generation of people coming is the most unfair generation. It'll carry the weight of all the previous ones. Let's take care of these people. It's very important. We must not allow that any more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To close, I will turn to two of the main positions of the Centro Association, because I do not have time to say the other nine points. The first is for pensions. We have said and said that the maximum pension right now in Greece of the crisis should be 1,500 euros and I will give you some information, how many pensions over 1,500 euros are. These are sixty-three thousand three hundred forty-four. These pensions if they are reduced to EUR 1,500, then we will save EUR 290851,200 per month, i.e. EUR 3.4 billion per year. We're talking about a lot of money. We are talking about money that, if we had it, there would be no cutbacks in anti-grassroots, as you do, such as the abolition of the CSR, such as the increase in ECA to free professionals, such as the reduction of medical expenses. All of this would be avoided if we did this very simple thing. There are people in Greece who get ten pensions. They're few, but there are. There are people who take nine or eight or seven pensions. And for this reason, I'm going to testify the table we have from the HICP with the number of pensions, double, triple or quadruple, and what money we would save, see. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Another proposal which we are making, not only for economic reasons, but also to show our willingness to help the country's economy, is to reduce directly the Members from three hundred to two hundred. The financial benefit we will have for the country will be over 25 million. You've taken anti-grass measures for far less money. In fact, I was sad and - I think - each Greek was saddened by what the President of the Parliament said about the fact that the previous government fell from the institutions. Not because the previous government fell, but because it's bad to hear that they can interfere in our country. I hope that something else the President would like to mean. It is really sad for the Greeks to think that we have lost our national sovereignty. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too. Mr Constantine Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days, the truth is that a number of intelligence has been heard in this Chamber, most, unfortunately, from the government's side. The central meaning of all this I think is one. What you are saying to us, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is that what we are voting on here is the last budget of the memoranda. The truth, however, disproves you. Why, instead of bringing the end of the memorials, you have actually brought memorials without end. Have you already voted for measures of 5.1 billion over the next few years, which affect the weakest, yes or no? Have you agreed to a new pension reduction for 2019, yes or no? Have you agreed far-reachingly to reduce duty for 2020, yes or no? Have you been promised, as many colleagues from New Democracy have told you, movable and immovable property for ninety years in the famous superstition, yes or no? Of all these, it's clear that this is the fourth, most cruel, most inappropriate, the most abstract and the most unjust memorial, yes or no? Unfortunately, the Greek people know the answer to the above. One thing, however, is certain, at the end of this route, you may talk again about fraud. My time is limited and you will allow me to confine myself to the harsh reality of my area of competence in this area of infrastructure and transport. Firstly, major projects, particularly roads and rails. Allow me, you show a small-sightedness as a government, because you are trying to increase your own participation in the creation of these projects and reduce the work of all the previous ones, who would obviously not have been and who, when they had come to Parliament in the period of government 2004-2009 - let us not forget - you have voted against them, because you probably had another agenda at that time. And to continue the works that had been stopped by your own responsibility, after the experiments of 2015, what have you done? You've shared a total of 500 million pounds to contractors, and then you come to the opening, and you cut us red ribbons. One thing is certain, however, that the last citizen also knows that the projects do not belong to parties or politicians. They belong to all Greeks, to all Greeks and should not, in our view, become a field of micro-party controversy. Second, let's go to Egnatia Street. You said white, you made black. You were going to reduce - you said - the final cost of tolls. Listen to what you've done. You have reduced a little-0.20 minutes in fact - the price at three toll stations, which are already in operation, but you add four new stations at a higher price. So what are you doing? You're raising the price. When the rest of the stations are in operation - thirty-two actually - the increase will eventually be multiple. Thirdly, on urban transport. In Athens you received STASY with a balanced budget. You manage and create a deficit of EUR 58 million. In Thessaloniki you made the unprecedented: statization in the 21st century. It is a statement that we will see slowly that neither the citizens nor the citizens will serve and leave a huge account. So you have shown, in our view, that once again the ticket to populism is expensive and, unfortunately, the people are not privileged. The "kerassie" in all of this is the incredible adventure that we all lived in Athens when you forced the citizens of the capital to pass through a process unacceptable to publish an electronic ticket. Fourthly, with regard to the flooding in the West Attica. From the first moment on, the Qualified Opposition has shown a responsible attitude and has shown that we have not seen destruction as an opportunity for populism. But your government, after the ecological disaster in Saronic and after the incredible tragedy of Mandra, where twenty-three fellow citizens lost their lives, what did it do? It's been deputizing for the past. But the reality is one: for years there have been serious mistakes in the West Attica, but in the last three years there has been an inertia. The New Democracy has tabled a timely question and we will unleash all the central government's responsibilities for this tragic event during the debate. Fifthly, incompetence and carelessness in every institutional initiative of yours. I mention, for example, the n.4412 that was voted on in August 2016. It was applied in mid-2017 due to the problems of the same law. This has led to the delay in too many small and large projects, especially in the regions and municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, I have referred to five issues which have a common component, that this government, unfortunately, does more than it does. The worst part is that while in the words he claims to be next to those who are most in need, in practice these citizens are, unfortunately, the first to be hit. You all see it in the reduction of the minimum pension to 195 euros, in the first home auctions, in the widow's pensions of EUR 360, in the abolition of the CSR, in the dramatic reduction of social benefits. If the left is fighting for the protection of the weak, then SYRIZA is its absolute self-determination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u144	So do we.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u146	Yes, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u147	Because I think, Mr President, that the debate should take place on the basis of the facts and because there was a reference from the previous speaker in relation to the measures after the end of the programme and spoke for the fourth memorandum, I would like to say to the honourable Members that it is not right to confuse things when we make comparisons. In particular, therefore, the measures to which my colleague referred concern the mid-term programme for 2018-2021. What New Democracy speakers systematically forget to mention is that, in the medium-term itself, on page 61, balancing interventions 2018-2021 are at the same time mentioned for the first time, what we call "antimeters" and do not believe it will be done or say different things about when it will be activated. So I read from page 61: ‘From the interventions of the mid-term financial programme 2018-2021, both in state revenue and in the insurance system previously analysed, an improvement in the country's budgetary result of approximately EUR 4.5 billion in net terms is expected. This is the first time that such interventions do not seek to increase the surplus, but are of a redistributive nature, in the sense that the increase in revenue and savings from pension expenditure will finance, provided that the objectives are met, other actions, which aim mainly at strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and alleviating groups of the population particularly affected by the protracted economic crisis.’ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u149	Here you go, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u150	It is right that the honourable Member is right to say what he said, but with one difference, which he has raised a little bit. In order to implement the countermeasures, objectives should be achieved, while measures should be implemented anyway. So the SYRIZA - ANEL government's bill is EUR 14.5 billion. They are therefore the countermeasures for the faecal cheese that is the measures. But the citizens don't bite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u151	Many times, Mr Staikoura, you have told us about the famous cut, which we have never seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u152	Mr. George Stylos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last year in the plenary debate on the 2017 budget I mentioned the example of a farmer from Arta who produced 100 tonnes of merlin oranges, an average variety. I had proved to you last year and had documented that this man was forced to live and feed his family at EUR 4,200 a year. This year, the farmer is going to change him. We're going to make him feeder in Jummerka, in Arta, in the garden with a good herd, animals productively. And I will also be galantus to you. The figures and costs to be mentioned are actually today. I challenge the government and anyone who wants from the Ministry of Rural Development to come and speak specifically and disprove me. The only thing that does not change is the adventure of the farmer and the farmer in Greece of SYRIZA. So we have a farmer with two hundred sheep, a good herd, neither small nor too large. Let us assume that it has no labour costs, that it does not concern anyone and that it manages on its own, which is impossible. Let us also assume that this farmer has no loss. The year was good. He didn't lose any of the animals, no natural disaster in the infrastructures or, of course, his animals. Of the two sheep, production is about 70%. Each sheep produces on average two hundred pounds of milk per year. The herd, therefore, produces twenty - eight tons of milk a year for 90 minutes per kilo. That makes us a sum of 25,200 euros. Sounds like a big number. The farmer will get from average subsidies, an average amount of about 3,000 euros. And that's increased. Money's less. And you know that. But let's say 3,000 euros. From the sale of small animals it has revenues of around 8,400 euros. Two animals of about 30 euros are doing 8,400 euros. If we sum up all this, if we do the soma, in the ideal case that everything will be well, we have total revenues of EUR 36,600 a year. These are the income of a farmer. But the farmer also has expenses. Let's look at the bills. For animal feeding, it takes a kilo of feed a day. We have three hundred sixty-five days, two hundred animals and seventy-three tons of feed. The cost for feed is 20 cents per kilo. So a total cost of EUR 14,600. One kilo of dry food a day if you sum it up with about 15 minutes is 10.950 euros. For drugs, on average year by year, it spends 800 euros. I've got a few. For the maintenance costs of the stack installation it spends 600 euros. For operating costs - oil, electricity - it is noted that by professional current the farmer pays for his stable - he spends 800 euros. If you sum them up, total cost of EUR 27,750. We are therefore doing the removal of revenues less costs. It should have a net revenue of EUR 8,850. But we don't stop here. We should calculate the insurance contributions, which for the current year are 14% for the pension sector, 6.95% for health, 0,25% for the contribution for the LEI. And from time to time, from 1-1-2018, this 14% will be 16%, 18%, 20%, that is, after some time, 27%. If you sum this up, it's 20% of the insurance contributions. So, how much does it get out of about 8,500 euros? He's going to pay for insurance contributions of 1,876 euros. The tax is calculated at 22% of income minus tax rebate, which is EUR 1,900. So he'll pay 100 euros tax, along with the advance. But if we count on insurance contributions, he pays 1,976 euros. So by removing, the farmer should live with EUR 6,874, something less, if you divide it, from EUR 573 per month. In other words, we have a farmer, with a good herd, obviously family, living in the countryside, doing a difficult profession, which requires work and dedication of three hundred sixty-five days a year, as his animals do not get permission. He may also be helped by his wife, as he cannot alone cope with it, but which he does not insure. At best, therefore, it will make 570 euros for him and his family to live. I ask you in good faith, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and the ANELs: why should they remain a livestock farmer? Why should he be in the countryside? Why not sell his animals and live with the benefits that your government gives him? And in one case he'll be poor. Why would he work to be poor? Why is that? Is there an answer for this world? The farmer, the producer is out there. He's in the country, he's in the region, he's the one giving size, dimension, entity in the country, home. Your answer was: taxes, taxes, taxes, wine and others. I don't have time to list the taxes. You're taxing insurance contributions. Insurance contributions count in income. You are for the first time taxing agricultural subsidies and subsidies. You abolished the discount on agricultural oil. You increased the tax on gasoline. You increased the oil tax. You increased the excise duty on trucks. Who's taking the truck, ladies and gentlemen? Any big farmer with Cologne's jeep, or will someone take it to Arta's garden to do his job to serve? Ladies and gentlemen, you know it, and you know it, and the Greek people know it, will not pass on to you. Greece of charity will give Greece its place of opportunity and work. You know that sooner or later the elections will come and as much as you delay them, you will not be able to avoid the crisis of the Greek people. I am voting against the budget. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u154	Mr Mustafa mustafa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my position by expressing my sympathy to the people of Rhodope, who were tested in yesterday's flood. I want to wish them passively and courageously. We'll be their help in healing wounds left by the sanctuary. I would also like to express my sincere gratitude to the staff of the firefighting, Coreper, Police, Civil Protection, the Army and all the state mechanism, who have really helped to address the serious problems of the flood. It will be a matter of priority that we see the anti-military armour of the Amaranta region - it happens that Mr Kara Yusuf, who is excluded - and the surrounding villages, is often densely faced with similar phenomena in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, we are heading towards the end of the 2018 budget debate. Tomorrow it will be voted on. We believe it is the last Memorandum of Understanding. It is a milestone in the difficult course of our country to be redeemed by the hard commission and the size of the memorial. We know that we have several difficulties, several obstacles ahead of us, but the resurgence, the recovery of our economy, our country has begun. The issue is the positive course of various serious indicators, numbers, to transform it with our active policies and positive developments in the life of society, our fellow humans, to improve their standard of living and everyday life. I think that the last measures, both with the social dividend and with the solidarity allowance for the new generation, are in this direction. And this year's budget debate dominated the conception of the whole, the mass opposition, the tactics of the'shock and awe', the 'heavy', the 'fly against fire and at will'. It has been heard really heavy talk at both political and personal level. We're used to it: "fakes," "fakes", "fakes", "accidents", "carcliers" etc. and from 'Sovietia', 'Maduristan', we have now entered the constellation of Nigeria and Burkina Faso, with which they compared Greece! Mercy, really! I say, ladies and gentlemen, to good effect this anger and your anger, as a society and as a country I mean. At the same time, and to you, in good faith, to get you out as a party, as a historic party, as a Civic Opposition. In Thrace, to us there, they say "the very high vinegar, in its pot, in the cup, does the damage". Don't get hurt like that. I do not accept it personally for the SYRIZA Members. I've known most of them for a long time. The chair that sits for them has thorns and the parliamentarian's shirt is not silk, but a fiery shirt and a test for them. Better solution - to eliminate this rhetoric from our political life too - will be in the constitutional review to establish the terms, not to say that there are cartel-centaurs and others. I would like to refer very quickly to Thrace, since we have been at the heart of the political agenda lately. On November 13 and 14, the development conference for the "Production reconstruction of the region of East Macedonia-Thrace" was held in Komotini. A common finding was that the Region of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace and Thrace are particularly in a transition phase and from an isolated, excluded area is transformed into an important hub of energy, transport, transit, tourist, shopping center. There are huge opportunities for raising our region so that we can get away from the last positions in Europe. There was a record, a hierarchy of direct medium and long-term interventions to rebuild our region and society. We will monitor these interventions and work for their implementation. In order to do this, in addition to targeted actions and developed economic life and activity support policies, we must change, ladies and gentlemen, and the well-established concept of Thrace so far. The risky, divisive policy, discrimination and ghettoism policy must be abandoned, the representatives of these perceptions marginalised, the various housing in the name of the specialist, the carbonologist, the manager of the minority problem, cease to negatively affect initiatives in the right direction, cease to produce tension and build walls in the carbide society. I would like to mention briefly on specific issues that focus on recent days, for example, the sharia, the optional choice of minority people, in terms of their affairs, between the mute, the sharia and the Civil Code. This was characterized by a New Democracy official in our region as a gift from SYRIZA to Tayyip Erdogan. If that's possible! The consistent position of the Left, in which I have been active, since 1974 and in all its manifestations has been the abolition of the judicial powers of the mouft, the decorating of social life in all areas and this part of our society. The obsession with this regime has so far aimed only at religiousising the minority, denying and concealing the other identities of the minority, marginalizing, enclosing and ghettoizing it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. To finish my thoughts. The rights of respect for religious beliefs and international treaties are the zippers to cover the myths of certain circles not regard the minority as an integral part of our country's people. The government proceeded with the optional option. It is a small step, in our view, but it is a positive step. Society itself has been released from this barbaric of the past and will put it in the time of history. Many criticism was made of the Minister of Education and the Prime Minister, the way they opened the debate on the choice of mute. When self-evident things in our country are difficult for general things, how can it not be difficult for the issue of minorities? True, the mufts currently in existence are not acceptable to the vast majority of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue this way. I've written some stories about mufts. I don't have time to list them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u156	Indeed, there is no time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u157	For all this and others, we will pursue a genuine dialogue with the world, with Thrace society, to finally find solutions to these years' problems, which, as long as they are maintained, will undermine the future of our region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too. Mr Andreas Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, this weekend I lived in close proximity to a sad ending that life played in Vassilis Beskeni's family: Baptizing their child on Saturday at noon and Sunday morning the father would "go away". I would also like to express from this Step - what I have done outside the Chamber - the pain I feel about the family and tell them that we will be close, we will monitor every development that concerns them and as long as we can help. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I have lived in this Chamber and the time when you were a Dedicated Opposition and the years that you are government. I have heard the head of your finances, Mr Tsakalotos, rapporteur of the Officer's Representation on old budgets, give us lessons of a left-wing economy. I also lived as an MEP and as a member of the Government and Minister of State to do in the House lessons of poorly populated Kenyanism. We've lived for him, lived for him, had him do negotiating lessons, and recently we hear him doing clean-cut courses on the markets and admonishing the Central Left on issues relating to social democracy. I would like to say to him, and I would like to say to you, for our part, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that you are not in a position anymore or in a position to make a promise and promise, because the citizens do not believe you, nor should you do any lessons in today's Opposition. One lesson Mr. Tsakalotos can do, but without students anymore: How to combine the hammer on the New York Stock Exchange with the leadership of the '53 Members' movement, supposedly left-wing MPs. And there is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that the budget that we have been discussing these days is the last of a government that deserves the grim privilege of being the most demagogic, most ineffective, most incompetent and unfortunately the most dangerous of the interests of the country, which at least our generations have lived through. And this budget is in the footsteps of the past, baptized with social analgesia, that is by transferring even more weight to the backs of the middle class and the poorest. Let me remind you - why every member of the Step-up to the Representation must do so - the collapse of the ESS, a substantial intervention by the Sineite Government decades ago for the protection of the middle and lower strata. Let me remind you of your recent budget - 50% of the cut in the heating allowance. Remind the largest contributions that break free professionals and that will no longer be tax-free as of January 1, 2018. May I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, how late it was in both directions when you took it? It was EUR 3.7 billion in 2014, the state's outstanding debts to the citizens and EUR 75 billion in reverse, of citizens to the state. Should we underline how much it is today? EUR 4.5 billion overdue to the citizens and EUR 100 billion or more - they will, they say, go close to EUR 120 million in 2018 - the debts of citizens to the state. And it is very characteristic - but very characteristic - that for the current year we have one in two VDUs with a delay in tax. And from the figures of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, in September we had a jump in the number of VAT that could not do well by taxing four hundred thousand numbers. Four hundred ten thousand cases of VAT more than previous ones! This should be done in this Chamber by every Member who looks at the nature, political nature of the budget that we are closing down, to report it. And to remind of what we have been discussing today with an intervention by the President of Parliament in the wrong direction in terms of numbers, that in 2014 we calculated it to close the government as early as then with a growth of 0.8%. Examination of state accounts and balance sheets with Mr Juliarakis Head, the figures fell, but were developmental, to 0.3%. This was remembered by the President of Parliament, and he forgot that, three weeks ago, we discussed - the Members, but even the representatives of the parties are not entitled to have forgotten, the loss of a new memory is not forgiven - the closure with a growth of 0.7%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u160	With 0.8% after all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u161	With 0.8%. And the path to growth, which had begun - was 3% in 2015, was 3.7% in 2016 and 3.5% in 2017 and so for several years - by today's majority. And I will not forget - it is an experience that does not leave the mind and consciousness - that when we voted for the President of the Republic in 2014-2015, its forms and politicians at the time blamed every Member who voted for Mr Stavros Dimas as silver. Then every effort was made to get the government down and finally had the result it had. The President of the Republic didn't come out. We did not have the development that we should have had - and we had fought a great deal about it and had made many sacrifices - which had been made in 2014 and which the Greek people felt, at least in some parts of the middle classes. They felt it, we heard it. For that time, it seems to me that ministers, but also Members of today's majority, are trying to change the data based on Mr Düsselblum's interviews or his speech to the European Parliament. I have both of them here, and I also have an interview with Kathimerini and, of course, his speech, which several of you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, in your speeches. Why are you making selective readings of texts? Why are you doing this? Where does it help you? Are you addressing people who don't know how to read or who can't hear? Why are you doing this? Why do you make a choice? You are elected, and what form of intellectualism is, and you record what critics have been said in the oldest programmes, the first European Union programmes that have been rescued - and we remember very well how these institutions have been formulated - it has not been. And why don't you mention the rest? Why do you not mention the danger of a ten-year cut, which Mr Diaselblum mentioned in the European Parliament? Why not mention the issue we are discussing, the injurious effect on the economy of the fall of the government in 2014 and the non-completion of the programme? That is what the Dutch politician himself says, and that is why you so much invoke him. Read all about it, because we read all about it, and you are being exposed to it when you are addressing the National Representation as if you were municipal councillors of some small municipality isolated - who are none - from the rest of the Greek and European reality and who are being smart to someone who has no basic information about what is said in Europe and Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone calls the government the lost opportunities for the country - in relation to what I have said - they are very lenient. I do not agree with such persistent criticisms in the present government. You are a government of regression, defeat and discounts in all areas of public life, a turf of persecutors, in order to ensure outdated ideologies but also the welding of their chair to today's political correlations, overlooks every concept of society, the people, every concept of progress in the economy. And with regard to integrated investments - not only the emblematics, the very large ones, such as the Greek one, but also all other investments that have economic meaning for a local, regional and global economy - not in the end of their list. Journal reports are too often, but we don't need them here at the Lefkanopedio. We know them one by one, not only, I tell you again, the emblematics but also the smaller ones, stuck in the Greek bureaucracy that you are now the conductor. The bureaucracy has always been a problem, and when a majority colleague says "but it was all well before?", I pray to say that he is not and is right to criticise bureaucracy issues in the past. But the thing is, firstly, if you do something to get through it, if you do something to overcome bureaucratic obstacles, or, secondly, whether you favour them too. And we have the second in your case, as this has proved in Corfu, Rhodes, Halkidiki, Attica. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time, there will be three years of governance of a opportunist and native persecutive, as I said before, a majority. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] And I want to be clear: New narratives have no electoral audience, they no longer have a clientele, whether they are, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, "vote for us to get you out of the memoranda", or it is "vote for us why we got you", or it is the intermediate - which has a chance - "we're pulling you out", with a very long period of time that lasts months and spends all summer of 2018 with them. Whether it is one of these three or another of yours that will "inspire" you in the next few days, one is the preamble: Cape Verde is not there, because the Greek people are being troubled every day and has been settled. How it will finally end up, the call will tell us, because your political death's prerogatives are the upcoming elections, no matter what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Anna Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 2018 budget is taking place in a triumph on the part of the government, with a solemn attitude to overcome the budgetary objective and the well-advertised exit from the memoranda. Unfortunately for you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, this enthusiasm does not shared by the overwhelming majority of Greek society, because it is in complete resentment with what they are experiencing every day because of your short-sighted policies, because they have felt in their towel and pocket your coordinated attempt to eliminate them taxly, because they have been deceived by your populism and are no longer bitten by any of your communication bait. The irresistible reality finds the Greeks exhausted. This is not a camouflage with either dividend spots or last-minute pockets, which refer to panic movements. When you have imposed twenty-seven taxes, you have twice reduced the tax, and you have cut pensions and social allowances, don't expect people to thank you, because you are returning to him a fraction of what you have taken from him. In this year's budget you continue in the same pattern. For the third year, you are insisting on a recipe that has failed miserably, which brings further poverty, which exaggerates the middle class and cuts social costs. Even the Minister of Finance called him unfair, but then he probably thought that the weakest are protected with 24% VAT and a tax reduction and went with pleasure to ring the bell on Wall Street. Unless he mixed it up with the junk the markets would dance. This budget therefore directly affects the worst lives of millions of citizens, with an additional EUR 1.9 billion, to be added to 2.7 billion for 2017. The government axe fell heavy, with most of the beneficiaries losing it and the rest getting the astronomical sum of 35 euros. Remove all social benefits for beneficiaries of social solidarity income and reduce the heating allowance by 50% you who once shed hypocrisy tears for the mangoes. I guess with the left government people stopped freezing, and of course the tears were dry! The budget under discussion could not leave sport unaffected. In fact, the Secretary-General's optimism is that the new programme for sports projects is more difficult to understand, when the relevant funds for the GAAP remain the same or fall, when the Public Investment Programme is being used for stumbling and bumping, based not on the development of sport, but on the vote. Because, when the Undersecretary gives tens of thousands of euros to budget projects, it certainly does not aim to move forward and complete them. Services make and throw ashes in the eyes, without any emphasis on the program "Sports for All", without any attention to school sport, with the Ministry of Sports even going a few days ago to pay the rewards to our distinguished athletes for 2013 and 2014, because money for posteriori and appointments from the back door exist, but they do not spare money for the people who honor Greek colors. But what about the institutional part, where Mr Vassiliadis did not say very much or very much that he has regenerated Greek sport from his ashes? We heard him say that he ensured the supervision of international organizations in Greek football. Mr Koutsoskoumis of UEFA himself stated that their intervention was self-evident, when the situation reached no further with the repatriations of the then State Secretary for Sports, Mr. Kontonis. Mr Vassiliade has also told us that rules have been introduced into the dark systems of the EMP. Obviously, the new rules also include the privilege of the Deputy Sports Secretary of State to suit close colleagues in the ETUC. Appointing the Special Adviser to Sports Secretary as a legal representative of the NRA is not a dark path? Representing both the audited and the auditor leaves no smell of intertwining? What is it, a monument of transparency? And because the kingdom goes so far, his predecessor, Mr. Contonis, did the same thing, as he appoints the director of his office in the U.S.A. Such a moral advantage we really miss! What's the truth? The exit of Greek football from third-world situations, its custody by international organisations that continue until today, even after the election of a hereditary administration, or the temporary commander who took the lead in the "days" and extra-real wages? If it is not third-world law that the Greek Government is dictated and ordered four times on the same subject, the general meeting of the ETUC, then how do we describe it? How can we judge the fact that every legislative initiative of sport came in the form of urgency and without any consultation? What should we assume about the notorious sports law, which was posted, withdrawn, reopened some ten times and, obviously, is still being discussed and of course found in the ministerial drawer? We've been closing three years since the SYRIZA - ANEL government first advertised him and still his luck is missing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. Undersecretary spoke of a new page in sport. On this new page obviously doesn't fit the doping issue. The EESC, the audit body, has carried out only four audits in the first seven months of 2017. He was never in a worse condition. On this new page, which the State Secretary told us, there seems to be no room for violence too. The ODAB is inactive and does not work, as its own members themselves publicly denounce, but no one sweats! No reason, of course, for the laws concerning the licensing of sports facilities, the fan card, the laws that this government has adopted and never implemented. And listen - listen, for the fan card, the Undersecretary and another amendment to an unrelated bill, in the admirable tactics of this government, and asks for an extension for once. We're sick of counting. However, we will discuss these more extensively on Wednesday. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the third budget of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL has the disastrous footprint of their policies which have condemned our country to a standstill, and we hope it will be the last. I do not know, indeed, if the mismanagement of power lets you realize that you no longer have the support but the tolerance of citizens. The clavicle is empty. You will soon see the exit and you will be a sad memory for the Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, my colleague. My colleague, Maria Therlerite, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a budget which is difficult but realistic, a budget which is being drawn up under the specific socio-economic conditions under budgetary restrictions, an environment that has scanned labour and human rights, and which has shredded social rights. Today, therefore, in the debate in plenary I would like to focus on two sub-divisions of crucial importance and on the level of understanding of the 2018 budget, but also, of course, at political level. One dimension concerns reforms. Does this government really attempt reforms or not, as the Opposition claims? Are reforms planned and implemented by the government in addition to taxation? Ladies and gentlemen, is the creation of a single social security institution that has, in fact, been a demand from progressive and left-wing forces for forty years? The fact that no further measures will be required for 2018 is due to the savings through the ECA and not only. Today we have a software to know the differentiations between pensions that are complete, disabled, unlike the past that we had no picture. We are well aware of what has been happening and how the customer state has been orchestrating in this area. Dear colleagues and colleagues, are we finally able to reduce expenditure? Yeah. Not because we are making cuts, but because we are managing better through the fund and the single body. I now come to Mr Tindemans' ten questions on public administration. I would like to remind you of the following. The new organizations of the Ministries came up after an assessment of the structures and, according to L.4369/2016, they responded to existing modern needs and did not become horizontal, which you might not be able to think about and do, or, to put it more correctly, which for specific and ideological and political reasons you have never chosen to do and which is why you have always moved horizontally and with ad hoc policies. On the basis of the circular concerned, the possibility of increasing the positions of the organogram by 10% has also been predicted. Mr. Dendias commented on it. Yes, but he did not say that the agencies had been banned from anticipating vacant posts and were coming back and closing. That's what Mr. Dendias said. So when you want to do a proper organogram, clearly you're going to make a 10% extra prediction. And that does not mean that 10% will be covered, but it will be covered as required. That's why half the truths you're saying are true. And you use specific things just to lie. What I would like to say, too, is that Mr Denkias has commented on this. This is absolutely wrong and you will allow me to say from the wicked one. I should like to mention, on the occasion of two new sections of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, which are made to serve the need to implement and monitor mobility. These new structures must be made, yes or no? Of course, if you don't want to monitor mobility, it doesn't have to be done. The positions of the thematic directors, the special secretaries, are hereby opened. In other words, this government dares to dismantle the state, it dares what it has committed itself. And what's he doing? While you denounce it and renounce it that it creates party armies, it dares to come and make this colonization of the state. Seven thousand two hundred fifty-four recruitments were carried out through ASP. There was an exception, yes. Who? The two thousand two hundred five-year old fire extinguishers who are permanently appointed. Is that the party state SYRIZA is building? Together with digital design, it attempts to combat bureaucracy and abolish the customer state. To date, I tell you forty years you have been ruling, not to know how many civil servants are working and where they work exactly? There was no record, no matter how many times he tried. And that's exactly what you come and you say you don't want to say that SYRIZA is building a party state? Finally, you will be able to know and how many people work and how many enter and how they enter. So I would like to say that if this is not reform, and if we are not really invited to build the urban state that you have not dared, then what is it? You didn't, because you were interested in having a client state. I now come to the second dimension, which I would like to focus on and concerns the view of the Members of the New Democracy and the State Budget Office in Parliament that overtaxation with a view to performance and then social redistribution is not an optimal solution. In the latter, of course, we agree with what the Minister for Finance said. First of all, the Minister said so before, over-performance is not entirely the result of over-taxation. It was reported that it originated from social contributions and, in fact, from an increase in the number of people employed and from voluntary disclosure. I am not talking about why the Minister explained them very thoroughly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me two seconds, Mr President, and I'll be done. Secondly, unlike you, we have chosen to give social incomes of solidarity, because we have an absolute priority in dealing with the humanitarian crisis. Perhaps because of the neoliberal inequality you have and because, as we have learned recently, it is against human nature that there are societies without social inequalities - it has been said in this Chamber - we are precisely choosing to develop policies to mitigate these social inequalities, unlike you that I do not remember exactly what you have done in the previous years of austerity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u166	We did this. Don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u167	I don't forget the CRL. I'm not forgetting. To a pilot level, this also through a study that has never been carried out. We remember these very well. I also come to the last point, which concerns the fact that taxation kills growth. So we'll be in a vicious circle. And what investors themselves disagree, who want, from what we know and you say periodically, a stable framework for investment. What they care about is not the level of taxation, but the rules of the game and the business environment. And investment reform is not primarily tax. It has a tax side, but it is primarily development reform. It is a development reform and it means productive reconstruction in this country. It means a national strategy for the development of the country. It means changing the production model. It means new tools to implement this model. And instead of discussing in this Chamber how we are going to go to this productive reconstruction of the country, we hear monologues about the development of the opposition, which is responsible for the country's productive dismantling. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, what is important is to speed up the process of drawing up a national plan for the productive reconstruction of the country and also the attempted reform in local government, it should be the next steps to get out of the memorandum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u168	Mr Dimitrios Stamattis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, years ago the movies played a movie by Arthur Penn, starring Dustin Hoffman, "The Little Great Man". In this film was a young Indian, who did everything backwards. He was riding the horse backwards, saying the white and the hot cold. By listening these days to the Ministers and colleagues of Co-Police I remembered the Indian, because that's exactly what you're doing. You're trying to present the white one. At a time when you are cutting social benefits, social expenditure of 1.6 billion, you are talking about social sensitivity. At the time you say this budget is socially fair, you are destroying the middle class. And because I see Mr. Friend, I remembered something very right that he has said in the past, that you are proposing the countermeasures. Hey, Mr. Friends will tell you - and if he does not say so, I will now say so in advance, so that he does not come in a difficult position. These countermeasures, apart from the fact that we should be given, after exceeding the budgetary targets you have agreed, more than 3.5%...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u170	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u171	Mr Pinheiro, please read the last communication, which was made yesterday, 'when the countermeasures exceed 3.5%, then the countermeasures will be applied'. As regards the 'quality' of countermeasures, Mr. Friend was clear: it is a redistribution of poverty. We take from the poor man to give the poorer one. That is the social policy you have. It is certain that you have suffered a mutation and you are in a parasite. The sudden change in your positions and ideologies has confused you. The most classic crystal-clear example, a photograph of your mutation we have from Mr. Tsakalotos's image to ring the bell on Wall Street.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u172	It's not a bell.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u173	You know better than that, the hammer. You've heard. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u174	I saw it, I didn't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u175	In Wall Street, in the man of the devastated, in the bandit man Mr. Chakalotos. In 2014 he said that if the Left were to vote for and accept the e-mail Hardouvelis, then he would have no reason to exist and Mr Tsakalotos recommends and applies fifteen e-mail Hardouvelis. I would remind you that a billion was an obligation from the e-mail Hardouvelis, you have voted for and implemented with the current government. So this is a terrible mutation, and because I now remembered it, to be kept in the Minutes of the House, I am sorry that Mr Tsakalotos is not here - Mr Tsakalotos three times in the past days said a blatant lie. What's the lie? He said our government didn't close the fifth rating, because he didn't want to take a credit line. It's a lie, an obvious lie. We agreed that since November 2014. Samaras, as Prime Minister, said that with this credit line we are insured. Mr. Venizelos himself. We repeated it a hundred times. And to dust your memory a little, we then used one example, and we said that this credit line is like a protection indicator. So when the current Minister comes and says that lie, or does not know what happens to him or is lying to him for a certain reason. If he was here, a dialogue could be developed, to see what Mr Chakalotos wants to see. What's he afraid he's coming and he wants to take a battle position now? I'm closing this chapter. Ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day. It's like today you decided to drop the Samara government. I say this, seeing the dear President Voutsi, who in a report by the President of Parliament yesterday, said that the Government of Samaras was thrown by the lenders. No, it's inaccurate. The Samara government was thrown by you along with the ANELs, along with those of the MPs who were left by Mr. Kuveli and with the Golden Dawn, when you agreed to count the votes of the Golden Dawn to the result. And he had the courage today of the Prime Minister saying in a public speech about Samara's cooperation with the Golden Dawn. That's where the stones laugh. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You worked with the Golden Dawn to drop the government to explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u176	Baltakos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u177	But Mr. Vouches said something else. He said that "these lenders who threw Samara government today support us, I don't know why". I'll tell you why. The first reason was that Samaras had not agreed to grant them. Because the creation of the supermarket is, in fact, the formation of bankruptcy and alas if something goes wrong. We, the 'German ladies', therefore, said 'no'. The second was when it tried to cancel the assessment of BLACKROCK in the second recapitalisation of the banks. We have said 'no' and it has not been done. You did this, with a loss of 21 billion for the Greek State. The third was red loans. We were struggling to support this simple citizen who had been unnecessarily unable to fulfil his provision and, year after year, we reiterated a law, so that we could protect him. You guys came and threw him naked in the funds. The fourth was that they certainly had reason to be angry by some of the lenders with us, because we unilaterally reduced VAT on the focus - what you have not dared to do - and we refused to increase VAT on the islands, which you very much voted here. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And the last one, which may not be well known. I told you that some of the lenders - not all of them, I do not want to be unfair - did have reason to be dissatisfied with us and want to take the rug. Yeah, they pulled the rug, but you shot us. They pulled the carpet and we destabilized, but you put us down and you bear historical responsibility. One of the most recent reasons was that when the International Monetary Fund was found in front of the mistake made by the first memorandum, it tried to transfer this mistake to unstable from the Eurozone, which entered as consultant and loan, and transferred the burden of responsibility to either the lenders or the Greek side. "Or tire the debt," he told the lenders, "or the Greeks should cut fixed costs". They didn't have time to formulate it. They did not have time to tell us, because, acting preventively, Samaras had then declared, in unsuspecting time, that further reduction in wages and pensions, further reduction in income not only is socially unfair, but is also undevelopmental. Because the waffles, the retired, the poor worker, the money he takes doesn't save them, he doesn't save them. He's consuming them. And, as you know, private consumption plays a major, important role in increasing national income.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Comrade, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u179	I'm closing, Mr. President. So that is what we, the German germans, did. We refused. And I ask you: if we are the germans, what are you? Of course, the need for ambition by voting and, of course, I have to say that the point made by Mr Tsakalots at the meetings of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs was very effective. He said: "Ladies and colleagues, bad lies. Or you support the budget or elections.’ It was a catalyst of his argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u180	When did he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u181	You haven't heard of it? Let me get it for you. What I'm saying is written.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u184	Yes, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u185	I had decided - and this is the right way - in a dialogue that took place at the conference of the Civilian Opposition Party or in dialogues held on the channels these days, that there should be no answer, because the real debate is being held here. Since Mr Stamatis - and I fully respect him - felt the need to do this, I am obliged to say two, three things in terms of assessments made in writing and the minutes of which are available to all Members. Because there is another reason to speak about a speech and another about the appreciation or interpretation of a speech as to how it suits us. Firstly, it must be clear that the cost of e-mail Hardouvelis, for which you have spoken, Mr Stamatis, is not EUR 1 billion. It's a new legend. The projections for all the regulations, which were referred to as a proposal at the time, were published in the ‘CATTERIN’. She hasn't been accepted yet. It was the debate on this matter. The forecasts for surpluses and other sizes of the medium term were too many, several billion, in a final account. In relation to the success story, however, it is clear and well-known that what had appeared as a way out of the market was to leave the International Monetary Fund, to have specific growth figures, etc. Since the summer of 2014, he didn't stand. It was not only the results of the European elections that gave a trend to developments. The economic situation itself at that time was not based in any respect on the predictions and the narrative that it had formed. And that was clear abroad too. We found out, and we read it, and so do you. It was even clearer in the country's second outlet attempt on the markets. You remember that very well and we all remember that. Of course, he sparked the popular mood back then, which was also very clear, the developments from there and then. I would like to remind Mr Stamatis - and he knows that our debate here is always, as at one level then - that the Samara Government chose a month and a half before the end of the deadline and term of office of the President of the Republic, to provoke the vote in this House for the new President of the Republic. It did not explain how much room it would be, so that the account of the happiness of that period, the economics, in any way to stand on its feet and get the extension that they were entitled to from the Constitution until 2016. There are many others, which are not details, but they are basic elements of that period, which, of course, when they are hidden and when through the fast news - Mr. Stamatis did not do so, I am talking about the previous days, which I had chosen not to say anything - two series are formed, two grams and a slogan - because it is a slogan - the party audience - we understood it, it was an intra-party process - they do not render the truth. Thirdly and finally: when I said - and it is in my speech - about their own reasons, which the institutions have at all times to accept, to support, to be obliged, to move in the direction that the government gives - let us say that - this battle, I meant very clearly - the exceptional economic achievements that have been in the Greek economy - you saw the spreads, say, of the last period - that is, the possibility of bringing the Greek side into account on a whole series of issues that could not be denied. That is why I said about their own reasons, Mr Stamatis, that they had - and they have - their own reasons. Because today, throughout Europe, the austerity strategy is at a very great dead end. And there is confrontation and conflict, not only between the North and the South, but across all states and within states. And the debate on the future of Europe is literally sealed by the central dilemma, 'continuation or not of the austerity strategy'. So all the debate on Grexit - you remember, eight months ago, someone had remembered it in Germany - and all the other instruments used by the lenders to our side are bad fires. These are, therefore, their own reasons, the deadlocks, the present correlation of forces that are watching and approving this course of the Greek economy so that we can - and we will do well to get out and rejoice with you - in August from this cycle, but because of the achievements of the Greek economy and not the Germans who are now in here. All right, let's keep the level a little bit. Mr. President, excuse me. I should like not to have had to make these clarifications, which - I repeat, for all those who heard the speech and I refer to the Minutes - have been clear since the speech. However, it has been a long time and, in particular, the fact that this issue is coming back here today in this particular way obliges me to clarify quite clearly, not just what I mean, but what happened at the time. One dialogue, and also for details of that period, how we arrived, would be very useful, but not constructive at this stage, which we are now facing in the final straight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, it's obvious...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u187	Mr Colleagues, however, it is clear in a sense that there is a dialogue. Mr. Stamatis, with all due respect. You spoke 11 minutes. The President, with the respect we all have in his institutional role, spoke without a timer. If this dialogue continues, it will be at the expense of the whole process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u188	You realize I can't leave unarmed the positions I developed a moment ago, because it seems like I'm accepting...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u189	I will give you the floor, but allow me to make a announcement because we have visitors here who have to leave. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the 4th Gymnasium Tripolis (first section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Stamatis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, in response to what the dear President of Parliament said, I would firstly like to point out that the assessment of the course of the Greek economy had been made in December 2014 by two institutions: first, the Commission, in which he wrote - and all the Finance Ministers co-signed - "the course of the Greek economy is better than the one we expected." This was reflected in the agreement then, December 2014. Secondly, the International Monetary Fund, which wrote for word that "as things go, is so tall that the Greek debt is falling, which in 2060 Greece will be below 60% of the debt, surpassing all other countries". Secondly, Mr. Voutsi, what would we gain if we stayed a month and a half longer? Would you change minds? Would you stop complaining to the Members that they are paid to vote on the President of the Republic, or were you going to come to a reasonable debate, which I see you all invoke it a little - very much, with the Prime Minister at the time? I remind you that your Chief at the time said: 'I will have a conversation if I see Samaras: When will he get out?' I would also remind you that from this step I as Minister of State told Mr. Tsipras then: “Why are you in a hurry? Let's close our circle and run elections in November." Why? Because we weren't afraid. Because the evaluation would be closed. Because we would take the 7.2 billion that they never gave us. Because the only cover we had to do for the second half of 2015 and the whole of 2016 was 17 billion and we were going out on the markets. That is why your responsibility is too heavy. I don't know about the other reasons you're saying, I spoke about the obvious reasons why some of the lenders moved the hair and gave you the right to shoot us. It is what we refused to do and you are doing very willingly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Since Mr. Chakalotos is here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Stamatis, your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u192	I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, you said that we did not close the fifth rating because we did not want the credit line. That's a lie. In November 2014 at the Eurogroup we agreed. We had agreed to this and said 'net' of security. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You didn't know that, and you said something you didn't know wrong, or do you hide a point of view that we'd see in the future?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Stopate, please. The question has been raised. Minister, you will not answer because we will not continue like this. Mr Nikos Friends has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last night Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras in Elefsina announced the rise from the bottom of the Saronic twenty-eight old shipwreck. Listening to him how much it looks like a shipwreck lifting our government's attempt to take out the economy from the bottom of the crisis, but saving it - and that is the difference between the classic shipwrecks - and the entire 'full crew', that is, the Greek people. It is what we are saying 'to get out of the crisis with society upright'. Listening here to the House and also to the conference of the New Democracy, I saw the speakers among the "captainers" and "mechanics" of the "dropped sea" of the Greek economy. They surround "soft" and "soft" as if it hadn't been one day, the new "shipowner" and they promise all these responsible "shipwreck" trips to places magically and dreamtly! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] These are nightmare promises. Why is it that Mr Mitsotakis' objective is to dismantle public security and private aid to a society, in fact, which increases the rate of poor paid employment with the EUR 380 a month? So it will be the social state that will be critically affected by the neoliberal experiments of Mr Mitsotakis. One example I will tell you. With our budget for education in 2018, EUR 5.317 million will be provided. How much would the New Democracy give on the basis of the medium-term programme it had signed? He was going to give 4.308.000,000 euros. One billion less than education for the service of the rich and those who send their money to the tax havens. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the three quarters of positive growth after many years, the declining of bond prices at 2006 levels, improving the economic indicators along with the important achievements of our Government in a series of dissections, was a first successful rise. A second will be our exit from the current loan contract in August and the recovery of some degrees of freedom in the exercise of our policy. It is, however, the size of the catastrophe that no one is entitled to celebrate or build, like some other captains of the disaster, a success story. There there are many submerged ships still in need of titanium work, determination and plan to get them out. I heard Mr. Loverdo and Mr. Stamatis. What they have said from the past is voices from what they have said. Look. Let's forget what Tsakalotos, Drasakis, the government for 2014. What's Shoeble and the IMF saying? How do they appreciate them? He was derailed to the 2014 targets. Derailment. There was a target of 1.5% surplus. It wasn't caught and a 2 billion-dollar hole was moved to 2015. This is what Shoeble says in his interview with Mr Papachela recently, where he reveals that Mr Samaras asked him for political reasons - and that the programme does not come out for political reasons in Greece because of the opposition of the people and the opposition at that time - to have a slight suspension in the implementation of the programme. Sybile adobe, no one else. Secondly, the IMF in its evaluation of the programme in February 2017 adopts these perceptions and estimates that the 2014 programme was derailed under the responsibility of the programme, which you agreed and the policy you were pursuing. I could say more. Mr Stamatis, I think you have spoken a little bit 'confusing' when you gave me the issue of austerity. Austerity is your policy. We, if we apply austerity measures, are through a coercion of the memorial measures that we had to sign in the summer of 2015 and we are trying, with everything we can from the surplus, somehow to loot the consequences of this austerity. So we're not talking about redistribution between the poor and the poorest. The country, despite the downturn in the downward trend and the emergence of a trend for recovery, but which must be stabilised to be convincing and sustainable, continues to land at the last speed of Europe, because it is important not only how your economy runs but also how others run. Here the performance for 2017 is for Greece from what we hear 1.6% compared with 2.5% in the Eurozone. With this level of public and private debt, with the primary surpluses of 3.5% over five years, with these inequalities, the path towards the definitive exit from the crisis and the memoranda will be uncertain and precarious. It is for this reason that today we need to set as a priority the treatment of debt, both public debt and superfluous primary surpluses and private debt, which is linked to the course of a banking system. On these two points, you will allow me to express a few thoughts. On the issue of primary surpluses, the government was forced to subscribe to primary surpluses of 3.5% for the five years 2018-2022. In practice, last year and this year, we have implemented this objective. But what you gain from the rise of the surplus, you lose it almost equals growth. It is a typical example of 2017, where with an agreed target of 1.75%, we seem to be heading for a primary surplus of around 3%, namely the difference that we will lose from growth, from about 1.15 which, if we had it, would reach 2.7% increase in GDP, that is, the target of the 2017 budget. The surpluses of 3.5% for another five years restrict economic growth and give it social injustice. What kind of growth will we have without a strong public investment programme? With new cuts in pensions and tax-free, with what we manage to have, it is clear that things are also difficult there. It is necessary now to discuss credit measures for debt, such as the growth clause, to raise the issue of the reduction of surpluses so that pension cuts in 2019 are not made in the first phase. Who can disagree with such a pursuit? Even the oldest supporters of the highest surpluses of 4.5% are now talking about surpluses of less than 2%. If they are honest and do not simply give reasons, they have to accept a political consultation initiative that will support the government in renegotiation of debt and surpluses. It is now time for this initiative to give even greater impetus to the positive developments that have taken place. The postponement to later restrains us into a second role, and we will thus be at risk, given a confusing and divisive situation in Europe - we all see what happens with immigration - to suffer it like a compass, who thought would take Oscar because the body had been perfectly portrayed. Wherever you stand, put Antonis Samaras and Evangelos Venizelos to perfect the picture! Ladies and gentlemen, on the question of private debt and, in particular, what banks hold, I would like to point out first of all the need to see as responsible governance, but also as legislative and executive authority, the question of banks, beyond the role of the Bank of Greece and the European Central Bank. We must be concerned about the observations and criticisms made by the Court of Auditors of the European Union as a whole about the memoranda and incredible experiments carried out at the expense of the Greek people, but in particular about the banks and interventions of the European Central Bank and SSM, for which the finding is a catapult. Unfortunately, however, it is worth wondering why Greece did not pay much attention to this finding. And I come to the issue of auctions and the risks for first residence. I will say in advance that the government must look seriously at the question of horizontal legislation on the basis of the objective value of EUR 300,000 and below, and not be content with the gentlemen's agreement with the banks. Today's meeting of the Prime Minister with the bank representatives confirms that there are limits, I fear, and a dead end to this so-called'masters' agreement. The targets set by the bankers for 2018-2019 in cooperation with the SSM lead to more than forty thousand auctions. Everyone understands that, from a point on, these will not involve strategic mispaids or batters with villas of 1.5 million euros and swimming pools, but poor world and simple people of the former middle-class that the crisis has weakened. At the same time as horizontal protection, the Government must see issues such as the non-execution of auctions on the market, but at the objective value, the ability of the borrower to take his home at the price that he would buy the fund or the retailer and other protective measures, given that all the assets of borrowers, movable and immovable, are now known and accumulated and can therefore be significantly reduced and the risk of battering can therefore be significantly reduced. Most importantly, however, we need to look at proposals and good practices, such as the 'NONA', the Irish public bank and combine the resolution of bank balances with the protection of mass auctions, which will have a huge social impact. Such a special-purpose public bank could be financed from the funds left over from the third memorandum. At this point I would like to inform the House that these banks' practices, encouraged by the European Central Bank, have been severely criticised by the President of the European Parliament, Mr Tayani, who even sent a letter of protest to Mr Draghi on 9 October 2017. I put forward the relevant information.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Comrade, finish it up. You've spoken for 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the 2018 budget with the optimism that it is up to us to come better days, that the exit from the loan contract in August should be framed by regulations on public and private debt, so that the path of economic recovery is stable and socially fair. This social debt can take a step forward - only by the SYRIZA Government. We owe it to the Greek people and we'll make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Theanoiou, Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this last budget, before leaving the country from the memorials, the Accuracy Anti-Civilisation gives its change, as the people say, by holding the debate with its dear methodology: abusive, civil-war climate, a universal amnesia for the situation that it has given us, repeated lies that are reproduced by its multitude of media as undeniable truths, which have taken root in a people who have been stricken since the years of the crisis. That is precisely the definition, that is precisely the deposition of populism. I shall now refer to two of these great lies on the right-wing propaganda that, firstly, we have poored the middle-class with overtaxation and that, secondly, we are reducing expenditure on social protection, namely welfare. With regard to the first falsehood, based on data from the Hellenic Statistical Office, from 2008 until 2015, the population at risk of poverty and social exclusion is rising from 28.1% to 36%, and this in numbers from 2.9 million poor at risk of poverty and social exclusion that was in 2008 becomes 3.9 million in 2015. With a simple arithmetic increase by one million of the poor. Where? From the middle class. That's the first. Secondly, the rest of the middle class reduced incomes in those six years by 35.5%. Who impoverished them exactly? But you people ready to change Greece did not see it, as you certainly did not see the humanitarian crisis. Nor did you read ELSTAT's data saying that from 2008 to 2015, the lowest class lost 38.5% of its income. In other words, in simple words, the poor became poorer, while 10% of the richer ones increased their incomes and from them about 1% were legally taxing, as you say, the ready to change Greece, in Panama Papers and in Paradise Papers with offshore companies of your relatives, when they were not illegally taxing with the Lagard and Borgianes lists, which you have forgotten in your drawers or in your homes. We collected 400 million from tax evasion, which went to the primary surplus and to the social dividend. With regard to the second lie on the right-wing propaganda that, in other words, we have reduced expenditure on social protection, welfare and cut benefits, this is where the logic actually raises hands high. We received a budget in 2015 that was EUR 790 million. In 2017 it became EUR 1.5 billion and in 2018 it is done - you are voting - EUR 1.836 billion - that is, we increased it two and a half times. The EUR 790 million for welfare in 2015 was the lowest budget in all of Europe. We were the last in social protection expenditures all over the Europe of twenty-eight. You did not do that because of the crisis. Social protection has always been there, because you have put it the same way in the times of prosperity. You believe what Mr Hardouvalis has said these days - your well-known, dear Mr Hardouvalis - and BSE - also dear - that the resources that go to social policy are removed from development. We, on the contrary, believe what scientific research is saying, namely that every euro that goes to social spending contributes to development, because it is multiplied by a financial multiplier from 0.3 to 1.68. In the 2019 budget, expenditure will be increased by an additional EUR 1 000 000 - it is voted on in the countermeasures - that is to say, 3 000 000 000 euros. We have therefore, within four years, quadruple the expenditure on social solidarity. How we reduced them, that's only right can claim her friendly means. I ask you directly: Do you, ready to change Greece, what do you budget for social protection in 2019, which you then want to return? What are you gonna cut? The EUR 760,000 for the CRL from seven hundred thousand fellow citizens? What are you gonna cut? The 200,000,000 euros of school meals for five hundred thousand children? What are you gonna cut? The forty - five thousand places in a total of one thousand eight hundred new kindergartens, that is, a hundred sixty - five thousand free places in kindergartens for working and unemployed mothers, where only seventy - five thousand for workers? That's what we received! What are you gonna cut? EUR 260,000,000 in excess of family allowances, or EUR 600,000 in the amount of rent and first home bank loan? One year you are now terrorizing the Greek family that family allowances are being cut off. You are making strong reasons for the infertility, when in 1993 in the House you had come up with a finding which you did not follow at all. And the rhythms of ingenuity are growing so many years! Why did the Greek citizen have to feel safe with you and have children? Who would take care of his child? Who would give him free nursery, free school meals, free primary schools, free IEK and TEK, free universities, free health, public health, public social security? These are the public goods that you, the public posters, are about to change Greece! [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I need some more time, Mr. President. We made a move this year of great symbolic importance during the negotiation. All the money we saved from every ministry, euro - consumables, moves etc., totalling EUR 325,000 - we gave it exclusively for the child, because the Left talks about the child first. The Ministry increased by EUR 260,000,000 the amount of family allowances, from EUR 650,000 to EUR 910,000,000, an increase of 40% and created three income categories. And because a lot is said, two numbers will tell you: for one child 480 a year you, 840 euros a year. For the two kids 960 euros a year you, 1.680 us. For the three kids 2,940 euros a year you, 3,360 us. For the four kids 3,920 euros, 5,040 euros. And I don't want to go on. With the new law on assumption and adoption that we will be voting on in January and which was in electronic consultation until first, we are changing the landscape to the foundations. The kids will get out of the foundations. Families will stop crying because for years they can't adopt a child. The new law will give every child a warm hug of the thousands we don't know how much they're inside the foundations. For a year you have been terrorizing the sensitive disability area by saying that benefits will be cut. Even 1 euro of disability benefits will not be cut. On the contrary, we voted for the law that implemented the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which you had since 2012 and waited. At the same time, since February 2018, the electronic disability file will be piloted, which will put an end to the long-term and painful procedures for people with disabilities. In the course of the pilot project, the Pre-Accession Benefit Scheme will be carried out through the OPEKA, the new one, the OGA - Social Solidarity Promotion Fund - and the CEPOL. You, the ready to change Greece, who have charged the country and humiliated the people, are the ones ready to change Greece, who have made the tax evasion, scandals and corruption, you think you are in the dormitory of power. On the contrary, we are now planning and implementing, every day that passes, the next day after we leave the memorial to a state of social solidarity which will cease to be a founding, subsidizing, only customer-friendly thing to deal with our vulnerable citizens with dignity, equality and transparency. We are therefore building for the first time in this state two pillars for social solidarity. One is the national mechanism with the forty community centres. Already a hundred and eighty-five are working. What is this Mechanism 1? One mechanism at three levels. On the basis of the two hundred forty community centres, in the middle of thirteen regions and above the National Mechanism of the Ministry of Social Solidarity. Single backbone for an information system with three registries. What happens when you go there with AMCA? It concerns all Greek citizens. It's not just about the vulnerable. So you go with AMKA and the first record tells you what benefits and benefits you can get. The second record tells you about the services and you'll be addressing your child, your father, the sick person, the disabled or anyone. No more customer relationships. All of you sold it as a service. The third registry shall communicate all "current" programmes to Greece, such as the NRP, national, local, at each point. At the same time, as the mechanism tells you, the citizen, it transfers questions and answers to service through the Ministry so that we can control and reorder our policies. The second pillar, the new OPEKA, will give - just as the CRL, with the same electronic platform of the social dividend and the CRL - all transparent, equitable, equitable and fair benefits, just to enjoy the weakest and most fragmented strata of the new digital policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u199	Madam Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u200	I shall conclude, Mr President. That's what we do, and that's how we move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and two educational attendances from the 4th Gymnasium Tripolis (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Fotou, we delivered you a country that had passed since the recession in growth. We delivered you a country that had ensured the preventive credit line for support. We handed you a country that came out of the memoirs. And what did you do? You have plunged the country back to the end, signed the third memorandum, bound the country with measures, and after the end of the program, and you are poorening the entire Greek society. I do not know if your vision is the Greece of culinary and benefits but this is certainly not a pursuit of Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the third budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which is really a shipwreck for the country. Truly, how distant the heroic times of your anti-immemorial opposition, when you were shaking up the memorials, when you threatened their partners by moving their fingers, when you conquered your opponents as "German german giraffe" - today you are disturbed to hear it, I see - when on the farm of Waggos Mr. Tsipras was pointing to the farmers above and below in their mobilizations. Nothing reminds of yourself. Now sign two or two memos. Now you're proud of being partners and lenders' favorite children. You have now kneeled every professional class in taxes and contributions. Now give every house to a banker, as Mr. Friend reminded you a moment ago. One has not changed upon you: Your obsession with falsehood, demagogy, demagogy, because your goal was and remains one, power is equal to everything. You have testified the millions of things in the previous government, you, the policy lighters, who had the magic wand for all sorts of disease, and you have thrown a government just before we come out of the groaning of the memorials, taking advantage of people's anger. And here is the result, a tragic retreat, a return to the recession with major victims, the productive classes that are inexorably paying for the hardest tax policy that the country has seen, a policy that, as you yourself have confessed, the disappearance of the middle class, namely the people who are still able to produce and pay taxes. A characteristic example is the farmers who blow it up and do not become cold by the evacuation of the insurance contributions you have imposed on them, by taxation for the first time on subsidies, by the abolition of agricultural oil and the imposition of a tax on wine, where the denial of your notices of abolition confirms your political atrocity once again. Victims of your so-called social sensitivity, which as an opposition, of course, you wanted to monopolize, are the weakest, because you, the leftists, are cutting off the CSCE into a hundred thousand fellow citizens, you are cutting off the discount on medical expenses, you have cut off the heating allowance in the half of what you received it. From EUR 200 million you have reduced it to EUR 47 million, which you accused a few years ago, on the occasion of the unfortunate incident with the manoeuvre in my special homeland, Larissa, the ruling ministers at the time, we as murderers. You increase VAT in the remote islands, in some of which you have taken the majority. Perhaps you would like us all to become lobsters and not to remind you of them. But we won't do you the favor. Amongst what you have made clear is the flagrant utilization of resources from the benefits for families with three and four children, not only because the third and the multitude families have the most pressing needs, but also because our homeland suffers from an unprecedented demographic collapse. Death is steadily surpassing births and young people who can have a family, leave, emigrate abroad. The future is now being erased ominous. And you, instead of taking immediate and substantial measures to reverse tendencies, do cuts in the multiples. Congratulations! That is why I am telling the truth in the Minutes the protest of the Pan-Hellenic Triton Federation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Scarers, however, are fascinating for unexistent successes. You show great surpluses to share a Christmas boot for voting reasons. These are revenues derived exclusively from the posture of payments and tax refunds and from the outraged tax evasion of the Greeks. You are trying to convince us that we are heading out of the memorials and that we will get the keys to our safe, as the Prime Minister said. This is, unfortunately, another misleading operation. Why will this be, with huge pension cuts, tax-free reductions, with visible primary surpluses by 2023, and, in addition, with a commission, and with an over nine-year-old? And all this, with the wide - wide signatures of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you falsely snatched power and lying ruler. But you will also lose from your lies, having the ridicule of the Greek people and history. You have lost the people's confidence and that you know it's not going to change. The country needs another policy. Real reforms are needed to boost entrepreneurship, to attract investment, to create new jobs and not just a few hours' work. The New Democracy wants and can implement these reforms. In the next elections citizens will give the command of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to move forward, leaving behind the black pages of your own destructive governance. The clock's already counting the other way around.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u203	My colleague, George Kyritsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year the budget debate coincided with the New Democracy conference. This allows us to see things in a perspective, and both, in my opinion, anti-dialogue contrasts have been unfolded. The Government plans to get out of the hardship commission and then phased out of the policies that the European People's Party, the political family of the New Democracy, imposed on the country, assisted by the New Democracy and the PASOK, as well as the interconnected media. Some positive arrangements, such as the one on the over-privileged privilege, or for those who have one or two children, already exist in the bill under discussion. The New Democracy, for its part, has a goal of returning to power, which it feels should have inherited rights, which the Syrians today, according to its opinion, are waging. And the Right is so urgent, because he wants to put back in front of the business and because he's afraid of the ending of the scandals under control. Two are the main narrative points of the New Democracy. The first is the so-called loss of the moral advantage of the Left, a phrase which they constantly repeat, which bears witness to their anguish, not to defend themselves and their state but above all to wreak out the Left. ‘Syrian parked illegally’. This is the so-called moral advantage of the Left. "Syria Cousin Cousin got a job in a business that co-operates with the public. A vicar! Here is the moral advantage of the Left." Such are their arguments. And all of this is said by the sprout on the back to improve still, "SIEMENS", CENO, curated permanent plundering systems of the country, lists, various papers, which you are rampant not to open. A second central point in the New Democracy account is the so-called overtaxation. After two periods of violent and severe reduction in state expenditure by the first and second memorandums, trying to balance with - fatal - a slight increase in their taxation seems strange. However, a State covers its expenses, whether by borrowing or by taxation. We're trying to maintain a minimum decent pension allowance, hospital expenses, or the maintenance of fire-fighting planes, and the very existence of fire-fighting fire-fighters, so that there can be a hospital, so that there can be no asphalt in the streets and not all of them lacquers, so there can be books in the schools to fly the planes. For all this, then, after the collapse already suffered, the low absolute levels of these expenditures have reached them in recent years. Whether tax sharing is more or less fair or what costs have been cut in relation to what, these are matters that we can and must discuss. Indeed, some are overtaxed as a total burden. The New Democracy, however, says that when it comes to things, it will further reduce state spending and at the same time reduce taxation. Bottomically, however, it does not specify which costs it will cut in order to reduce the taxation of whom. But I would like to tell you, because by nailing the lion, that for this surplus, which he proposed was the horizontal reduction of the ENPIA. Therefore, the poor who paid for less ENVY would have no benefit and those who paid, because of greater economic scope, would have a great benefit. This is the whole concept of the New Democracy. It will cut costs that are necessary for many to give tax exemptions and tax reductions to the few, who will once again send the money abroad, as they have done for decades with tax exemptions and maritime loans. In the decade before the Memorandum almost 110 billion tax exemptions were granted to the rich, which were missing from the public funds and of course increased both the deficit and the debt. It is no coincidence that the first memorandum was a loan of about 110 billion. It is worth wondering, however, what kind of social state it will be left in Greece and how much European state it will be, when after three memoranda the opposition has as a programme to reduce State spending further. If all I say remind you of something, this is Trump's policy in the United States and in taxation and democracy issues. We are constantly listening - it has been repeated in terms of vines at the New Democracy conference - that Kyriakos Mitsotakis will "clean" the Exarches in a few weeks' time. You use a war vocabulary, an invasion vocabulary in a hostile country. How, in other words, would you like to know if a government said that in Kolonaki - for example - we have many directors of offshore and cocaine smuggling, let the police invade streets and shops, because those who hang there are suspects, those who support them are also suspects, so everybody in there. I don't know what that would look like to you. It must have seemed unheard of to you. So don't suggest it for other districts in Athens. Especially when we know that politicians let the police do their job in Exarchia or Father Mitsotakis' political order old to the police "You are the state", he has left a bloody print, two fifteen-year-olds, Kalteza and Gregoriopoulou, murdered in cold by police officers in Exarchia. So leave the lionisms, because every time the state of the right roars, it smells of human blood. New Democracy is not a solution for the country. It is a solution to regression, intolerance, barbaricity and social darnism. This world is aware of it despite the attempt of interconnected media to present as a historic horizon in 2015. However, Greece did not suddenly grow in 2015, nor did the leadership of the New Democracy come from political virginity. Greece is a small country and we all know each other. SYRIZA continues trying to get out of the crisis with ambition not to leave one behind. This budget is a step in this direction, and I obviously am voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the ministers and to the Members of the House of Commons commenting on the 2018 budget, I think it makes it clear that there are two quite different concepts of reality. You still lie rawly. Inaccurate and without here, you are making a virtual reality, which you are folding and which you are defending to the point of irrationality. You are isolating the elements you like and are of interest to you, such as the degression of the yields of Greek bonds and simply denying any element you do not like and it does not interest you, such as, for example, the fact that you have started to make auctions. The budget title for the Government of Tsipras - Kammenos is: "Every good," but the reality of the Greek households gives its own title and is: "Every year and worse." However, because you are all arrogantly celebrating and mocking your own fakesuccess story, I am tabling my own political assessment of the 2018 budget. So for the 2018 budget, I give you a political evaluation of AA, triple A that they say in our village too! Yes, I said AA, don't wonder. It's the highest one, AAA, because the budget you're tabling proves that you're incompetent, unscrupulous and unscrupulous. You are incapable of complicating the country's public finances. You note a stunning revenue hole, 3 billion euros less revenues in the ordinary budget than the medium-term target, 1.5 billion euros less revenues from direct taxes than in 2016. You're incapable of bringing growth to the place. While all the advanced countries are developing faster than expected, Greece is dramatically low. You predicted 2.7% for 2017. The OECD estimate is about half: 1.4%. You are incapable of bringing investments to Greece. The country has been deinvested. In 2017 the investments were found at 5.1% of the 9.1% predicted by you. That is, again, about halfway through the age of 20. You are incapable of supporting private initiative and entrepreneurship. For the past two and a half years, seventy-three thousand and fifty-seven companies have been closed because of the insurance and tax lot. Just 4.2% schedules an investment for the current semester. You're incapable of supporting the free professionals. Hundreds of thousands of three hundred and twelve free professionals have closed their books, while their incomes have decreased 900 million euros in 2017. You are unable to restore liquidity to the market. Unable to solve the issue of red loans, which are in a world record. You are incapable of fighting unemployment. The truth is that full employment is falling rapidly. In 2017, six out of ten recruits are part-time or rotating. You're only capable of taxing. You've imposed twenty-seven taxes in two years. Greece has for your days noted the sad first in increasing taxes among the thirty-five OECD members for 2016. You're incompetent and you're lying again, but that's the one A, because you're not just incompetent, you're also analgesic. You don't care who pays the bride for your inability. You don't care about the middle class and, of course, the weaker ones are paying it, because you don't care that you are reducing the ESA by EUR 234 million. You don't care that you're reducing the heating allowance by 50%. You don't care that you're abolishing the discharge of medical expenses. You don't care that you're reducing medical expenses by 350 million. You do not care that you are reducing the social budget by EUR 1.6 billion. You do not care that you abolish unemployment benefits for new entrants. You don't care that you're cutting off widow's pensions. You're arrogant and you're lying again, because you're only interested in staying in your chairs, and that's the second A. But you're not just incompetent and inappropriate, you're above all ruthless. You did not hesitate to allow the sale of loans to the funds. You did not hesitate to lift the protection of the first home, you did not hesitate to allow for the seizure of salaries, pensions in more than one hundred and eighty thousand taxpayers since the beginning of 2017. You're incompetent, you're unconscious, and you're also ruthless. You're not reluctant to anything. And you're lying again. But the truth, you know, ladies and gentlemen, insists. And if you don't see it, the world sees it, and when the time comes, it will show it to you too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to table in the minutes the decision to grant a widower’s pension to my friend Alexandra, a mother of two children, a widow of my friend Spyros who had completed thirty-three years of insurance amounting to EUR 199 and 78 minutes, with whom she has to live with her children. Because you're not just incompetent, you're not only analgesic, you're not just ruthless, you're also impotent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u207	Mr Alexandros Haritsis, Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating these days is a cut-off for the country. It is the budget that closes the circle of memoranda and marks the recovery of our economic and budgetary sovereignty, and it does so in conditions that are more favourable. The economy is moving at a positive rate of growth, and macroeconomic and budgetary indicators record significant improvement. Now we all have to design the next day, outline the new productive model that ensures fair and sustainable growth. Sustainable means relying on stable bases, where the country has comparative advantages in high added value areas too. Fair means its benefits are spreading to all social groups and not concentrating on the top of the economic pyramid, as was the case in the past few decades. The Ministry of Economy is already moving in that direction. With an integrated development strategy we are proposing support for the productive sectors of the economy. We are focusing on re-industrialisation and technological upgrading of the economy and, in particular, support for the work of highly educated and trained people that this country has, those who neoliberal policies of internal devaluation and continuous depreciation of labour have allowed or pushed migration. We are on our way with two aims of interconnecting. The first objective is to provide substantial liquidity to the economy, address the great deinvestment brought about by the crisis, support for enterprises, finance the necessary small and large projects, but also critical social interventions. The second objective is that these resources should have the maximum possible development and economic impact in areas of high added value, in industry and in processing, where new quality jobs are produced. In this direction we mobilise and coordinate all available financial instruments. We made full use of the available resources of the NRP 2007-2013 and we quickly activated the new programmes, achieving high absorption. Of course, if one considers that the members of the opposition, the New Democracy and the PASOK are of course to be judged, Greece will come to the conclusion that Greece is urging the absorption of the relevant funds. Every day we read reports of loss of resources in the press. Unfortunately, it is a take news that is systematically reproduced by the opposition media to create a virtual reality. So to be practical and clear, how can we assess the performance of a country in relation to the absorption of European funds? There are two ways. One is to compare the current absorption to the corresponding absorption in the previous programming period at the same time. The second way is to compare absorption today to that of the other Member States of the European Union at the time we are in. In both cases the evidence speaks for itself. The absorption today - and today is literal - with the European Commission's latest figures is 25%, when at the corresponding time of the «ESDP 2007-2013» it was 17%. Even more important is the element that was published this morning on the European Commission's site. Greece, as you can see in this diagram, is in the first position of the resource absorption table of the new programming period. The European Commission announced this today. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I put this in the Minutes for the truth, so that we can finally end this misinformation. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Alexandros Haritsis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] But these are not just absorption figures, which often do not mean much by themselves. This work, which has been done, has allowed us first of all to complete the major roads, which have been frozen for more than fifteen years, to finance a large number of projects throughout the country and to support small and medium-sized enterprises, but also to finance interventions in the social pillar, the one for some who is not so important but for us is very critical. Interventions such as the major health reform designed by the Ministry of Health were carried out. Interventions such as the early recruitment of all Deputy Professors, so that schools will be opened on time for the second consecutive year in the school year 2017-2018. Also, it is true that more than a hundred thousand children with the use of these funds managed to find a place free of charge at children's stations. For the first time so many children were found at the children's stations without their families paying for a single euro. In addition to the absorption of the NRP, however, we have also substantially increased the national part of the public investment programme. It is a very important programme, which is complementary to European co-financed programmes. It is particularly crucial for local communities, as it finances important projects across the country. From the 700 million, which we received in 2015, this year will exceed EUR 1 billion, while in 2019 it will reach 1.5 billion. Still here, we don't just talk with numbers. We are talking about projects of vital importance to the citizens throughout the country, such as, to mention some examples of the last crop, the expansion and modernisation of the water supply network in Heraklion, Crete, which even today, in 2017, half of the network lies with asbestos, the biological purification of the Pambotida Lake in Yannina, the expansion of the water supply network in Corfu, the financing of an integrated anti-milling programme in Evros. Critical interventions have been made, such as the EUR 95 million programme for the reconstruction of nurseries throughout the country. In addition, in the allocation of these funds, which do not follow, if you like, the heavy bureaucratic procedures of the ESRB programmes, we emphasise those areas with particular problems. That is why we have introduced the Special Development Programmes of North and South Aegean, amounting to EUR 50 million, exclusively from national resources. Projects of over EUR 10 million have already been included in these programmes, which will be extended even further in the next period. A similar programme has recently been created for the region of Western Macedonia as well as the Development Fund, a budget of EUR 10 million. We are, in fact, the first country in the European Union, which sets insularity criteria for the allocation of these national funds as early as 2015. We are not only confined to available Community and national resources, because the disinvestment crisis in the previous years requires the attraction of new capital to the Greek economy. That is why we have developed a very close cooperation with international financial institutions, such as the European Investment Bank. The result of this cooperation is only for 2017 for the Greek economy of EUR 2 billion. A total of EUR 8 billion in 2017 from European, national and also the projects that we concluded in cooperation with the European Investment Bank have fallen into the real economy. And, of course, we don't stop here. We are launching new projects of EUR 7 billion for the next three years, which, according to the bank's own estimates, will trigger investments of more than EUR 20 billion. Of course, this cooperation - as the bank officials themselves say, all these successes would not be possible without strong cooperation between the EIB and the Greek Government - has brought about yet another success, the fact that Greece is, according to the latest information from the European Commission and the European Investment Bank, in the second pan-European position, in relation to the utilization of funds from the Juncker package. I am tabling the Minutes and the relevant information from the European Commission. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Economy and Development, Mr Alexandros Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] You will also allow me to refer very briefly to the development law. Development laws, you know, are of the utmost importance not only for subsidies, which they offer to the private economy, but also because they are, if you like, a stimulus to show what the direction is, in which political leadership is trying to turn the economy. With the new law, we have been called upon to solve a very difficult equation, on the one hand, to face up to past sins, the problems that have been inherited from previous laws and, on the other, to form a new development tool for the economy. In all three older development laws, we had the same distorted design, I am referring to the laws of 1998, 2004 and 2011, with 95% of funds directed at low-tech investments, with few major investment projects, just 4% getting almost half of the money from total funding. It is characteristic that for the 2011 Act only 10% of the integrated investments were finally implemented and even implemented at a cost that was unthinkable for the Greek economy, as each job cost the State budget 323,000 euros. We, with a plan and hard work, were redeeming and serving the relevant agency and now we are completing the investment plans of the previous development laws. Watch out. This year, in 2017, we are called upon to pay back investment projects that joined the 2004 Development Law, that is, after 13 years. A total of more than 50 investment projects of old development laws are being repaid this year, with the total aid to these investors exceeding EUR 230 million. It would, therefore, be expected that the opposition would be more pitiful in its criticism and, of course, avoid charges of anti-development policy when the whole disaster has taken place. In the new development law, therefore, all the above problems are dealt with, but even more, for the first time, the law has specific targets. We prioritise the strengthening of industry and manufacturing, we emphasise the support of small and medium-sized enterprises, the better geographical distribution of aid, and these are all provisions of the new law, which already bear fruit. Over half of the investment projects, which have been submitted in its first year of operation, concern the secondary sector, industry and manufacturing, in sectors which are very important, such as agrifood and new technologies, while some 60% seek tax exemption and not direct aid, as was done by 95% in the past and, of course, this has had the well-known negative effects. Very crucial for the functioning of the new law, in terms of this redirection of productive activities, is the fact that only 11% of investments concern Attica. The remaining 89%, the vast majority, concerns investment throughout the country. In conclusion, I would like to refer to interventions relating to the institutional field. Because, of course, financial aid is very critical, but in itself it is not enough for this change in the productive model, which we all plan on in the government. So this planning provides - and we are announcing it here today by Parliament - three very important legislative initiatives for the very near future. Firstly, the first bill to come to Parliament immediately after the holidays, beginning in January, concerns the framework law on strengthening control mechanisms and market surveillance. It is a law that is, if you want, a twin bill, which follows what we voted on last year for the authorisation of businesses. The new law sets common rules and methodology and coordinates state control mechanisms, facilitating economic activity and better protecting the public interest. Secondly, because, as I have said before, industry is a central priority for us, productive reconstruction seems to pass through support for the secondary sector left to its fate, not only during the crisis of the last seven - eight years, but also much earlier. We are therefore bringing a bill that reforms and simplifys the licensing system for investment in industry next time. We motivate the installation of new and also the relocation of existing industries to organised business parks and we finance the modernisation of their facilities. At the same time - and this is politically very important - we are also actively involved in the debate that has recently opened up in Europe, on the future of industry at European level, and we demand a new European funding programme for industry with emphasis on both the new sectors and the traditional ones. The third very important reform has to do with the institutional framework governing the national public investment programme. I would remind anyone who does not know that the existing institutional framework for the Public Investment Programme dates back to 1955. So his age is over sixty years old and, as I imagine - everyone perceives, he is unable to meet modern needs. The main provisions of this reform concern the possibility of strengthening the municipalities directly from the national part of the Public Investment Programme - which is not allowed today - the possibility of multiannual programming, which will enable us to make a serious and comprehensive planning and, in particular, the creation of a management and control system, which will enable us to have a programme that will cease to be a black box - as it is today - and to ensure transparency and efficiency in the use of these funds. These are very important institutional interventions, which not only concern today and tomorrow, but in the coming years and in the course of development. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece in 2018 is turning a page. The exit from the memorandum will give us greater degrees of freedom. It will allow us to move more decisively in the areas that productive reconstruction requires. It will enable us to take measures to strengthen the social state and reduce social inequalities. I think a lot has already been done. I have tried in the few minutes of my speech to present some of these initiatives that we have taken in the past period. But of course - and also to reply to the Member from New Democracy, who spoke earlier - we are not celebrating. Far from us reasonable'success story' that prevailed in 2014. We know very well how difficult the situation for the majority of citizens remains, how much society has been tested over the years. We are giving the battle every day so that the improvement of macroeconomic indicators can be translated into a tangible improvement in people's lives. We have fought with the problems and diseases that have accumulated not only during the crisis but for many decades, and of course there have been our own omissions and our own mistakes that we must correct. But we are now, undeniably, starting on a better basis. In 2018 the foundations for the country's new production model will be established for the next decades. But this must not and cannot be the only case for the government. It requires the active participation of the social majority, those who paid for the marble of austerity. We have already taken the initiative, and we have opened the debate on the regional conferences that we are organising throughout the country, because we believe that they are precisely the working forces, the new productive strata that need to take on the case of the country's productive reconstruction, because that is the only way of developing is to be sustainable and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u209	President Evangelos Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, the central issue of 2018 budget is whether it is the budget of the net exit from the third memorandum of the Government of Tsipras - Kammenos or whether it is indeed an exit that we are going to face, but not a exit from the memorandum to normality, but exit from the third memorandum and already determined and voted entry into the fourth memorandum, which does not only reach 2023, but extends to main issues indefinitely and theoretically until the repayment of the debt, that is to say, around 2060. So this budget is the budget for exiting Memorandum 3, to which we entered under the worst possible conditions due to the first half of 2015? Due to a tachographic policy that resulted in the crash, in the capital controls, in the continuing loss of deposits, in the return to the recession? I would say that now after almost three years it is very easy to compare what was happening until the 2015 elections and everyone understands how the situation would have evolved if the political change in January 2015 had not intervened, or rather because this change had begun to take place months earlier, if the fantasy had not been cultivated that another policy, which proved to be a slogan of self-deception and raw political deception, can be implemented. My view, therefore, is that not only do we have a clear exit and a return to normality, but we are, unfortunately, laughing at each other in the course of this debate about whether there will be another memorandum, because the other memorandum already exists and has already been passed by formal means. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. We may have accelerating the implementation of these measures and, in particular, they are, unfortunately, given that the country's commitments to high objectives in relation to the primary surplus of 3.5% up to 2022 and then for a long period up to 2060 on average 2% plus, almost 2.3%, 2.4%. So what's successory? Is there a success story coming out of Memorandum 3 with measures and financing and loan and entry into Memorandum 4 and 4 plus with supervision, measures, strict budgetary targets, but without a loan? Or rather without the backs, without ensuring a preventive credit line such as the one decided in November 2014? Is it a success to say that I am driving the country to another stage in which the annual financial needs from the market at high interest rates must be met, because the high interest rate will increase the average interest rate and increase the average interest rate each year, will I have the entire supervisory mechanism provided anyway, but will I not have a cover that could affect the markets and allow me to borrow at friendly rates, so that the average interest rate is maintained at about the same level? Because it is obvious that the markets are assimilating the situation and when they know that there is a strong financial support for the Eurozone, the ESM, of course, interest rates are affected towards the most positive and affect the whole form of public debt to the most positive. I heard Mr Tsakalotos say that we could not succeed or did not want to achieve the preventive credit line, because the fifth assessment had not been closed. You know, of course, all of you that on November 6, 2014, Eurogroup decided that Greece would join a preventive credit line scheme. You will allow me to present in the minutes the Eurogroup communiqué of 6 November 2014. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Venizelos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You also know that we then made the decision to speed up the election process of the President of the Republic - I personally recommended this to the Government of Samara - Venizelos - for the simple reason that we had agreed with the partners to extend the second programme that was running until the end of February 2015 and we had to leave a margin of a few weeks to the new government, which would result from forced and given elections due to the inability to elect a President of the Republic, in order to renegotiate, if he wished to, the terms and to accept the framework that he had prepared for the country's progress under preventive credit terms and not a memorandum after February 2015. On the eve of the infamous Eurogroup meeting of 20 February 2015, I visited Mr. Tsipras at the Maximos Mansion, gave him the drafts of the documents that we had at our disposal and which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had, but he may not have known personally, I told him that "they are, strive to improve them with our support, but accept the framework, because they are not going to be given a more favourable framework". And that's exactly what proved to be true. Unfortunately, it proved to be through the developments until the agreement of 12 July 2015. Now, what's the story? That we are going without a safety net, without institutional support from the partners, with a hybrid preventive line, which takes the form of a national reserve, that is, with our own cash reserves, which, of course, result from overtaxation, from a harsh austerity policy, from a raw anti-development policy, which is the continuation of the tragic policy of overcrowding. They have gathered in 2016 and in 2017 around 9.5 billion primary surpluses, 10.5 billion-dollars have been paid, there should be a public debt burden of only 1.2 billion, and paradoxically there is a debt of a nominal government debt of about 7 billion at the same time, deducting the 2 billion paid by the National Bank from the old pillars of support for the period of 2008, so we have a 5 billion-dollar charge - again good - and why is that? This is because over-excession appears fraudulently to be a voluntary choice of the government, while it is a choice agreed with partners, stranglering the economy, because the over-excession serves a secret potential debt, through the continuous expansion of the state's dues. So both the partners know and the government knows that the surplus is actually a vital need not to increase the debt over and above the nominal limit of the memorandum you have signed, the 326 billion and all of it is at the expense of growth, at the expense of the declining middle class, without which there is no investment, no prospect, no demand, no real real real real distribution of income. Because redistribution of misery is not a reallocation of income. And all this is not just anti-developing, having a surplus in 2016 with a recession or anaemic growth in 2017, all this is also a preparation for election, when we get to the election, the internal enemy: the overtaxed middle class. If ever possible, this social category is characterized as an internal opponent! Of course, because I hear a lot about the objectives of the primary surplus, I would like to remind you, to have good accounts among us, that we in the ongoing negotiation with the partners have fully linked the objectives of the primary surplus at a high rate of growth and the second programme has included a deeper recession clause, which has opened up the renegotiation of the renegotiation of the primary surplus objective, as has been done. We have never accepted excessive surpluses and even surpluses as a target with a recession, as in 2016, or anaemic growth at the limits of stagnation, as in 2017, which I hope we will reach 1.6 instead of 2.7 that had been budgeted with the 2017 budget. In order to achieve this, however, we must in the last quarter have growth of 3.2% of GDP. Look, in February 2015, when all of them were shaking a straw that "we came here and we clean up with a radical leaf," "we're tearing up the memoirs", "we're deleting the debt", I had displayed Hardouvel's mail and said, "Behold the notorious mail. Take it. Hold it. You will see that it is a playground in relation to the memorandum signed by Mr. Tsipras, Opera and Venetian. Now, then, I'm telling you, take the Eurogroup decision of November 2014 on the prudential credit line. Keep it and if the country finds itself in the need to compare it to the hybrid preventive line of August 2018, where Greece will not have the backs of the ESM and the Eurozone by getting out of the markets, you will compare to see what impact one policy has on the other as to debt service costs, so as to enable the economy to breathe, to get rid of fiscal barriers, to actually work creatively. That's the big deal. Why now what are we telling you? What do they tell us as a country? ‘Okay, there will be no preventive line. There will be no funding. There will be debt measures.' What debt measures? Debt measures, which are the continuation of the 2012 measures. Parametric changes take place on the second programme, the second loan and will be made on the future and on the first programme at the GLF. They are not on the third programme, because flexibility and dynamics have been guaranteed in 2012. The debt measures, however, are important when they are complete and single and produce results, either nominally or at present, but in a given value. When it depends on you and says "I will give you small facilities and leave, depending on the course", it actually cancels a very large part of the growth potential you may have and keeps you captive. I told you in the recent debate on the occasion of the Venice Institute 'Bravo you make the bond swap. You will see that it will work positively and works positively. What bonds is this swap? The bad, tragic bonds of the PSI - huh? - The destructive bonds of English law. They are the bonds for which you now go that they have much better, smaller odds and smaller spreads, that they pave the way to the markets. But that's because it's 12,000,000, million, all because there's a QE environment that didn't exist the previous time. But why is that? This is because there are these bonds and why they are marketable under these conditions. What does this relate to, that is, this craftsman, the obscure accession to our logic of what you said, without awareness, with absolute irresponsibility and which is on the background of thought? Do you not even feel the need to say apologies for slandering and vexation? "I'm sorry" from the Greek people, of course. Without national savings, without a banking system that operates, there is no real restructuring of the economy. And that is not what you are helping because of your political behaviour and the deep contradiction in which you are entangled. Because your audience cannot hear a single and coherent story. Have you become Europeans, modernists, realists, pro-Europeans, social democrats, pro-business, pro-investors, pro-Americans? What have you done, all this? It's not that simple. I'd say a little bit of a comic story. You may easily agree with some business capital representatives who want facilities, but you are doomed to amputating, closing your antisystemic eye. Because only in this way can you address the social audience you have chosen. And that is why you lead to a mercury policy without values and without a strategy. Your retreat to the front of the economy, this humiliating retreat, must be compensated for by opening the front against institutions, against justice, against the Constitution, a referendum on the Constitution to form new fronts, new ruptures. I predict that, unfortunately, the elections, when they are held, will take place in an institutional break in order to have a record. It won't be the record of the success story, which isn't about your social audience. This, however, is not a national strategy for returning to normality, but it reproduces stagnant bankruptcy. There is, of course, another policy, which leads to Greece after the memorandum, the one we served and which must be completed. The conditions are well-known, the budgets, the finances, but of course policies, namely, the change in correlations, the development of another government, which needs to be established on the basis of the national strategy. But that is not enough, ladies and gentlemen. Social conditions are difficult. Society, as you have trained it, is largely unable to accept another policy, a national policy of militarisation, a reform project, a fundamental change in the way the state, society and the political system operate, so that we can have the competitive Greece of the future. The damage that has been done since 2015 is great, financial, and developmental. Most of all, the damage concerns society's thinking, the possibility of adopting a national objective without any ambiguity, no tricks and no illusions. That's the point. It is important to vote as soon as possible by another majority for a budget that expresses this national perception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u211	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I request the floor for five to six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u213	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is a need for an answer. I won't talk about either homicism or fraud or lies. I'm just going to say that Mr. Venizelos has lost some continuity. But before I go to the sequences he's lost, let's go back to the past. In November, the preventive credit line was discussed. In December 2014, however, he had Eurogroup again. What you testified and put it in, and Mr. Stamatis was in November 2014. And he says in December, which is a month after November, that: "The Member States will take a good look at "favorably disposed" in a request from Greece for a preventive credit line, if he so requests and if the fifth assessment ends," he says reform. So until then you hadn't done it. But that's not the sovereign. The predominant thing is that here it says 'if we ask it'. I told you you haven't asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u215	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u216	I have not interrupted either you, Mr. Stamatis, or Mr. Venizelos. Please respect me, just as I have respected you. Secondly, read and compare what it says "if requested by the Greek Government, it will look at it with a good look" with the Eurogroup of June 2017. It says “in view of the ending”, as the program ends in August 2018, Eurogroup commits to helping Greece return to markets with more money, not only to close and finish with the delays, but also to create buffers, i.e. stocks to stand on its feet. So our 2017 Eurogroup says that "go out, finish and we're here to support you, increase buffers, stockpiles to stand on your feet". It doesn't say that to your own, it has nothing to do with this, it discusses another programme. That's what he's saying. So, Mr. Venizelo, you're wrong when you say it's from overcrowding and the stocks that we're going to build to get out of the market. Thirdly, for the past, this change, the restructuring of the debt we made at the last exit, was the completion of yours, the PSI and the bonds. I hope my Greeks will not betray me, but another 'completion' and another 'finalisation'. Because, Mr Venizelos, these bonds were special attributes: first of all, they were under co-financing. In other words, in the event of bankruptcy, there was a special rule on who will be paid and when. Fourthly, these have had gradual increases in interest rates. And so they were exactly bonds you couldn't compare to the bonds of Portugal and Spain. If you want to know why the spreads are dropping, it's not that we're done with the PSI. We ended it to have regular bonds that the markets can look at and compare them. We're done with your period. Now we're going for the debt and the losses you've had in recent years. Firstly, you have not effectively assessed short-term debt measures. Why is the difference with long-term debt measures? That they change interest rates that are floating - that can increase - and make them stable. So we're locking a pretty large piece up so far that the ESM wants to increase it even more so that the interest rate is stable. And unless you foresee for the whole future that there will be no growth in the world economy, this is of enormous importance to the medium-term debt measure. It's more important than what you'll borrow when you get out, because you've locked a piece of your debt at a low interest rate. Fifth, you forget it's not just extensions, the average maturation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u218	Don't have such a bad answer, Mr. Venizelo. First you listen and then you ask for the floor. I may have convinced you by the end. I see you're very poor before you hear me speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u219	I can hear and raise my hand at the same time. Don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u220	Well, as far as the bond expansion is concerned, there is also the French mechanism linking debt to growth. This 'development' clause we were talking about, when you said that we were populists. That wasn't there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u221	What are you today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u222	That wasn't in you. So, apart from what you had, now there's a mechanism that gives great confidence to the markets. If things don't work out - because they can't rule out that you can go back to the government once, so at the back of the markets that the economy is not going to go so well in the future - we're going to get more help, from zero to fifteen years, expanding the maturity and pushing behind the interest rate. But the difference is very great. You were talking in 2015 and now you say that the mail Hardouvelis is a "child pleasure" compared to what we brought. Why didn't you close the playground? Why are you pushing us and afflicting us? Since it was a 'child pleasure', why didn't you make a real success story, finish, take this line, go out to the world and say we're going to take the preventive credit line? You didn't do that. You didn't turn it off. "Children's joy" I hear, but it seems you can't play in "children's joy" either. That's what I understand! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The difference with us is that we have a plan. We went to the markets once, we went back to finish the PSI once and for all, and we could have bonds that have liquidity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u223	The insight that you're going to support in Europe!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u224	Where are the odds now? [[Noise in the Chamber]] We have a plan for both the debt for both the short and the medium term and for the long term and we have the support of Eurogroup and the markets that we can get out of the market and stand on our own feet in August 2018. You didn't have any of this. You failed and instead of coming to say the same thing, you need to sit down another four years in the opposition to see where you went wrong, because you could not do it the first time and see if you could in twenty-thirty years, when your Greek people retrust you, come back to power.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Venizelo, please be as brief as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u228	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u229	Mr Paphie, I think an interesting dialogue is taking place. I think you understand that. And you for your location will help this dialogue. Let him evolve. Here you go, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u230	Thank you. I reply to Mr Tsakalotou's argument that Eurogroup had approved the preventive credit line in November 2014, but in December he said: "If an application is submitted, we are ready to see it positively." What was he interfering with? The determination of the President of the Republic's inability to elect, the sterile position of counterpopulation and everyone knew that changes were going to occur and that a new government would arise. So the Eurogroup said: "I am ready to give the preventive credit line if the new Greek government follows this line and confirms the position of the previous government and submits the request". This should have been done by 20 February 2015 at the latest, where you concluded an agreement, you returned the 11 billion available to the CFSF, but you refused to bring this agreement to Parliament. The country went out and went to the summer drama of 2015 and to the humiliating and inconsistent agreement of July 12th. Compare 2017 and 2018 with 2014. If our line had been followed, do you know where we would be now, in 2018? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Wait a minute! You say, with ease and light heart, "but now the Eurogroup tells us that we will help you to have buffer, cash available nationally." With what resources?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u231	The ESM.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u232	With resources from overtax.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u233	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u234	With resources from the excess.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u235	Don't say that again. It's a lie. After I read it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u236	Will these resources be from the ESM, in fact, without any heresy, without any conditions? This is the fourth Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u237	That's what he says, you read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u238	This is the fourth Memorandum. So there is no way out from the third to normality. There is a commitment to the fourth memorandum, which is complete and rigorous. You're talking about debt. PSI bonds are special. Of course, because there's actually an EFSM guarantee, before. Because it's English law, of course. And, of course, these bonds also have a higher growth clause. The larger growth clause also exists in these bonds, there was also a reversal of a deeper recession clause in the entire second programme. How have your French friends inspired her? What does it mean to link the debt measures to the growth rate? Will interest be reduced or debt reductions? And when? Retrospectively? Interest shall be paid during the year. Debts, too. The growth rate is retrospectively established. How does this notorious clause work and how does it budgetaryly lighten the country, when in any case you are presupposing the high primary surplus of 3.5% to 2022 and 2.4% to the last generation? You're saying now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u240	I shall conclude, Mr President. [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] You say I underestimate short-term measures. Do I underestimate short-term measures? All the measures, which now brings you as a proposal, the ESM had been described in the February and November 2012 Eurogroup, all of it! I would ask you, the cost of short-term measures, the cost of converting interest rates from low to low, but stable - rightly so - who pays for it? Does the ESM pay it, as did the cost of the 2012 measures, or does Greece pay it? Greece's paying for it. This is the difference in the measures that you are now discussing in relation to 2012. In 2012, we had a nominal haircut and a haircut at present, because the ESM paid the cost of the interventions. The cost of short-term measures is now borne by Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u242	You are joining our policy without being able to implement it. That is why your policy is painful and dangerous for the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u243	Almost half the Members who have spoken, as long as I am in the Chair, have more than doubled the time. I have not interrupted them at all, because we are discussing serious issues and dialogue is of interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, can I just have the floor for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u245	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u246	It's to wonder, Mr. Venizelo, since you and we have done so well, because you are such a failed politician.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u247	You're not respecting anything! Aren't you ashamed? Are you talking to him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u249	There is no answer to that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u250	I insist, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u251	But, Mr President, this remark does not need to be answered now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u252	I will only say one word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u253	Quiet, please. Mr President, just one phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u254	Minister, I am pleased that you are a successful Minister, arrogant and unrecognized. You will receive the answer from the Greek people and from the history of the future. And get the fuck out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u256	Honestly, do you not realize that we have abandoned the speeches of colleagues who are patiently waiting to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, I want the floor for two minutes on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u258	On a point of order, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u259	It's not a point of order. He will speak on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u260	I shall speak on the substance. I'll leave...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Comrade, you're talking to me. What are you going to take the floor for?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u262	As a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u263	Will you make your speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u264	No, I'll be in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u265	Now what are you going to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u266	I want two minutes to speak as a parliamentary representative. It's clear. And when I said that I was going to talk to the point, I mean leaving out the Alaska temperature ingenuity of the minister who's accustomed to it. Minister, you spoke about the Eurogroup statement on December 8, 2014. So we have to agree to talk about it. After invoking a paragraph, it goes on to say that you accept it all. ‘Eurogroup welcomes the very positive developments in the Greek economy in 2014’. Thank you for finally accepting it. After you accept the statement, you accept it all. So, first paragraph, welcomes...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u267	Why don't you read the whole paragraph?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u268	Minister, you are not listening and what you are saying is not written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u269	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u270	Can you hear me? They're not written in the Minutes. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u271	I'm on it. The Eurogroup therefore welcomes macroeconomic developments in Greece and says, in fact, the paragraph that the programme...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u272	I'll check...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u273	Look, you're not gonna check on me, 'cause if you want the CVs, it's data. Not control over me. Secondly, under the third paragraph, it says that it is starting to pay off the programme. Indeed, because you have great weakness in the ESM, take for 2016 what Mr Reggling says about 2014. Because you referred to the ESM many times, take a look at what it says for 2014. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It says, and this communication, in the middle of this communication, is likely to be extended two months. So first you're going for the extension for two months and then you're going for what you're talking about, step-by-step. The first is that. Secondly, the question of why elections were held and why we did not close the evaluation. You know, your partner, your government's asset, in his book: "You welcomed the martyr arena", on page 165, says: "If the elections were postponed until November of this year...", 2015, "... who knows what the political situation would be then? SYRIZA was now in an advantageous position." Take the answer for that, too. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Thirdly, you said about how the cash is generated. Who pays overdue public debts, Minister, today? Part of the loan instalments and part of the primary surplus. Who paid the dues until the end of 2014? Only the instalments of the loan. Greek citizens come and pay the dues you have created. There's the big difference...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Stavura, no more. You have claimed to make your normal speech later. Don't do it now, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, 20 seconds. As far as debt is concerned, there is no need for much analysis. A table with four DSAs of the AMF, the International Monetary Fund, which says: “In June 2014 the debt in 2060 would be 60%, in June 2015 it would be 80% and in May 2016 it would be 250%, in February 2017 it would be 275%, in June 2017...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u276	What assumptions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u277	Deal. Mr. Stavura, you're done. The rest in your normal speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-five students and students and four teachers from the 2nd Komotini High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Pafile, you have the floor for two minutes and not for your normal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u278	Well, the others are making speeches. I'm the first to take the floor. I will begin with that, and I will make a point of order. I do not understand, then, that there are two kinds of parliamentary representatives and two kinds of parties here? Because four days that's what we've been watching. Whenever an intervention is made, there is also a parliamentary representative from either New Democracy or SYRIZA, making a comment of two minutes, which lasts five minutes. Ten times, fifty minutes plus twenty minutes the speech, we get to seventy minutes. Why? If we're all gonna do it. We choose, at least on the part of the JRC, to be in the process. Each one take the word and say whatever he wants. This please stop from respecting the others. Members of the New Democracy and SYRIZA are protesting about time to protest at their parties. A second comment, not on the substance. All right, Mr. Chakaloto, Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Stakoura, you can contest who gets the most praise from the European Union, from the market crows, from the killers of the people, who rings the bells better than the other. But what you need to know is that you get a "sichir" from the Greek people, because you move on the same line and this competition is callous, who best implements a barbaric policy, things that I will say next. So let us stop this ping-Pong in the Chamber and let everyone present his views. That's what we're gonna do. I haven't spoken for two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u279	Mr Páfile, as far as time is concerned, I have to tell you that I fully endorse your remarks. It's just like that, but what do we do? We need to manage it calmly. Mrs Stavroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will add an 'A' to what has been said. We must be viewed as very naive by the government of the previous three years, when they say what they say without being explained to us at most - very simple and tangible, that is, why is the performance of Greek bonds still in a historically low decade? Why? Can they give us a reasonable explanation, or do they consider us so naive and the Greek people who listens to them? I shall now refer to the budget which Parliament is asked to vote on tomorrow. This is a budget that - you do not like, you do not like - will execute the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in 2018 and will have the peculiarity of some of it being executed under a memorandum and comitology, but the second part of it being implemented outside the memoranda and without a commission. No one is celebrating, but it is not possible and it is not possible to hide reality so that those who feel that they alone have the right to rule. It cannot therefore be pointed out that we are discussing the 2018 budget at the end of 2017, having implemented the 2017 budget. However, as in 2016, it began with catastrophic catastrophe. Do you think that one does not remember the headlines and news notes on the revenues falling, the EVA starting with unthinkable deficits by giving tips, while none of you admitted that growth would occur and that a primary surplus will be achieved? So all this catastrophe has been disproved because the agreed surplus has also been secured, and the non-measurable measures have done enough to make the social dividend this year bigger, to go to more of the country's populations, more targeted and, of course, not even you dare to vote against it this time. How, then, will some continue to argue that it is populism to provide social benefits? Is it anti-developing to manage social services with new staff, to create structures such as community centres and to go ahead with projects such as Roma integration? New kindergartens are being set up, with the aim and in 2018 of adding another three hundred eighty-stage stations for another ten thousand children, so that in 2019, forty-five thousand children, positions will be reached. School meals will reach 30 thousand in 2018. They also work in the same direction, as well as the increase in family allowances that are now calculated, give help to new couples and correctly target the first and second children, in order to limit mass discomfort due to economic hardship over whole generations. The increase in the amount allocated from 650 million to 910 million, a 40% increase, is increasing the allowance received today by 92% of the families. These are measures which, among other things, favour the persistence or return of women to the labour market. And if the budget of the General Secretariat of Gender Equality remains the same, flagrant institutional arrangements, such as ratification of the Istanbul Convention, for the implementation of which the necessary structures for 2018 are still covered by the NRP. However, they will necessarily be included in the 2019 budget. In the field of justice, the Government and the Ministry responsible budget for 2018 specific policies for the effective protection of human rights, as well as for improving the functioning of the justice institution and speeding up its award. For the first time in our country, our country is developing a modern anti-crime, penitentiary policy based on improving detention conditions, training staff, reducing the population of detainees, promoting alternatives to detention measures, strengthening prevention and treatment of juvenile invasion, preparing for reintegration into society, as well as post- penitentiary care, security of staff and detainees, transparency and accountability. Finally, the substantial strengthening of health services in prisons, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. Thus, for 2018, the following are planned: Improving and developing health and rehabilitation services, including hospital and psychiatric services for detainees in the RIS, developing services for minors and young people with infractional behaviour and prevention of infraction, promoting a draft law on the establishment of care facilities for young people, projects to improve the infrastructures of detention stores, energy upgrade them through the ESS, since they are legalised as buildings, because, ladies and gentlemen of the Occupation, you have been building prisons for decades and leaving their buildings without permission, arbitraryly. This also needs to be settled by us to get into the NSRP and get energy upgrades. Administrative reorganisation of the penitentiary administration is also planned and the rational use of staff is planned, the reorganisation of rural prisons to strengthen the production of products which will bring about greater labour integration of detainees, but also self-financing of structures. Also, the first women's rural prison works. Legislative work is planned, including the adoption of new codes of criminal law and penal law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. In another field we see cleanliness services being staffed by strengthening the municipalities to the great disappointment of the rational contractors. For example, it is all I have to say. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS]] I cannot, however, refer to the distortion of the image you are seeking to present in the health sector, where the system has not only balanced but has also been based on an unprecedented, unprecedented, long-term recruitment rate, exhausting the memorial ceiling of expenditure from the budget and its reserves, while at the same time undertaking actions such as the development of primary health care with the financing of the World Health Organisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u281	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u282	It would make no sense, when there is a Memorandum ceiling on expenditure, the higher state funding of the system. Stop sucking that candy anymore. As for the Public Investment Programme, in addition to the completion of major projects and the response of natural disasters such as Mandra, it now reaches projects such as the bridges of Strymonikos and Mavrothalas in the Regional Unit of Serres and the strengthening of the impurities of Kirkini. Of course, the budget we have to vote on is not an abundance budget. It is another Memorandum of Understanding, but it protects as much of the population as possible from the consequences of the memoranda, with which you charged us and, furthermore, is the last one tabled within this suffocating framework. And as such, we are called upon to vote in favour of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u283	Mr Ioannis Vroutzis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2018 budget and a question arises reasonably: What kind of sign could we give it? The name of this budget is the word 'bridge'. It's the bridge, gentlemen of SYRIZA, from the third to the fourth memorial. That's exactly what this budget does. The measures for 2018 are EUR 1.9 billion. The measures in pensions, ancillary, main, ESRB, taxes, Aegean Islands are 5.1 billion from 2019 until 2022 and from now on. In terms of playground you could say that the e-mail Hardouvelis, as you identify it, of 1 billion, became fifteen e-mails Hardouvelis. This is for restoring historical truth. Another question, more critical, is also raised in the terminology, in the political speeches of all SYRIZA officials. After August do we really leave the memos? Are we entering a period of normality? I will agree with you on a condition, Minister, Mrs Ahtsoglou, when you are here. One is the prerequisite: to return to the well-known way of conduct, to the known lies that you know - you are voting for your own laws, your dear, that is, your well-known process, the shading of the fourth memorandum. Question: "But can this be done?" Answer: 'Of course!' Mrs Ahchioglu announced that. And you need to put yourself in this. Your Undersecretary, Mr. Petropoulos, said so on a TV show three days ago. And not only did Mr Petropoulos say so, but a series of SYRIZA MPs. In journalists' questions, “Would pensions be cut twice and three times in 2019?”, “Would you reduce taxfree?”, the SYRIZA MPs' answer and your State Secretary, SYRIZA's State Secretary, was about, yes, we will not apply it. So yes, we will enter without a fourth memorandum after August. However, I would also like you to answer this question. Call today for you to be placed and for you to be clear about the position of the government. Will reductions be applied from 1/1/2019, Mrs Ahtsoglu? Would you cut off the ESS? Will you cut the tax? Make it clear here today, so that you do not let your MPs say things that are not normal and continue the well-known method of SYRIZA, of lying. Speaking of lies, I heard before that you were being harassed because we were lying to you. But wasn't it a lie when you said - the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Tsipras - 'What hand will the Member vote on abolishing the CSCE?' and you did it with your hands? Wasn't it a lie when your partner and chief of government, Mr. Kammenos, said, "I quit VAT on the Aegean islands" and you all voted together? To the locusts, you have deprived this central policy of islandity. Wasn't it a lie when you protested about one thing that we didn't agree and would never go through New Democracy against workers, collective redundancies, signed by Mr. Ahtsoglou and SYRIZA? We had set an evaluation framework. And you brought them uncontrollable with a three-month warning! The workers will hear it! Listen to them, the unemployed and the low income layers! SYRIZA has the signature of the team redundancies. And, of course, wasn't it, Mrs. Ahtsoglu, when the Prime Minister and all of SYRIZA, with the trade unionists, in the Syntagma Square, said, "Can you abolish the strike law with 50% plus one?" We don't disagree here. We'll vote together. We expect to see when you will bring it here, because it is a position that we have formulated. But the question that arises here is: why your disagreements and your protests at Constitutional Square? Why did you and the trade unionists have the revolution of overthrowing in Syntagma Square? What are you going to say today as an argument? Here, we're waiting for you to bring it. Why did you get it back? When are you bringing the strike law? For us, the strike is sacred. Of course, we have another approach to how it will be decided. At SYRIZA, however, it remains to answer what it will bring to the vote and why the strike was first abolished, and now it is not abolished with 50% plus one. You will apologise once again to the Greek people. Mrs Fotio before she spoke about the social state. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, as Minister of Government of Samara - Venizelos, I had the honour of shaping the two central pillars of the modern social state. Firstly, the minimum guaranteed income, which will be available for decades in front of our country. Mrs Fotou called it a 'poverty trap' and voted against it in the House. Secondly, the question of 'A21', the family allowances, where we first gave the first and second children an allowance. We have, however, taken care, with the fierce financial resources, to provide support to the three-tier and multitude family of EUR 500. You voted against it. You have supported it so far and now you are getting the money from the threeteen and the multiples! I expect to see SYRIZA's sensitivity. When you bring the order, what are you going to say to these people you cheated on? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This budget, ladies and gentlemen, is dreadful! A million four hundred thousand farmers, engineers, lawyers, free traders will suffer catastrophic charges in their pocket from 1-1-2018, 37% to 61% over. And the unacceptableness you have made - unacceptable! - is that it closed in 2017 and you didn't even apply your law! You have put the people I mentioned before to pay contributions based on 2015 and not in 2016 as said by the "Law Katrugalou". Why? To get them -900 million more was the income difference - and say you have a surplus in EFKA, a placebo surplus because you reduced 40% of pensions in 2017 compared to 2014. And you removed 550 million from the budget of the FBI because you didn't take out the pensions. Now I'm going to a critical part, that of employment. Ladies and gentlemen, stop lying. Of course, fiscal adjustment has depleted unemployment to 27.9% at the beginning of 2013. The reforms that took place between 2010 and 2014 led to the declining of unemployment, because the reforms always want a time horizon for declining. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In this budget, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you will vote that unemployment will be closed at the end of 2018 at 20.2%. Do you know how far it was deleted to close in the medium term, with the financial model of ours? 19.5%. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] I know it's bothering you. Two hundred and forty thousand jobs have been lost due to SYRIZA. And let us make a comparison with the other Memorandum countries, which have passed a memorandum and have come out. Listen to your unemployment levels. Spain 16.7%. That's where he threw her. We started about the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u285	He didn't have a memorial.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u286	Ireland 6%, Portugal 8.5% and Cyprus 10.2%. Even the de-escalation that is taking place, you have delayed it, you have undermined it and, unfortunately, in the worst form, with part-time employment, which has been dominated by 60% -40% on the market. And because these are the words "ERGANI", which you called "Brutsi Montazier", I present to you today also the elements of EFKA, your creation. Listen to the number.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u287	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u288	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. The number says: Impacts of March 2017: Total employment, one million eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-forty-forty-forty. Part-time, five hundred and eighty-two thousand forty-one. The average amount of part-time work is not the EUR 460 that the New Democracy says, but EUR 342, Mrs Ahtsoglou. This is the generation you have created and signed, and you have the responsibility and you must apologise! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u289	The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor for ten minutes. I would ask that the time be respected for all Members to speak. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u290	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the 2018 budget serves a very critical, very vital political objective both for the economy and for society and for the country, the political objective of exiting from the Memorandum and from the aspiring financial committee. I think that this objective sets out the budget figures and its components. We therefore have a budget that respects the agreed commitments. It obviously maintains the core of austerity measures. However, it does not cancel - barely facilitate - the support for social intervention that has been launched in the past three years. In particular, in the health sector, what we are claiming, ladies and gentlemen, is that in the same memorandum, with the same financial constraints, with the same narrowness of resources, what has been going on over two or two and a half years ago is a different political project. It's a political plan that says: Firstly, the universal and equal coverage of the health needs of the population, without discrimination, on the basis of work, insurance and income. It is a flagrant change in the equal access of uninsured citizens. Secondly, priority for public care, emphasis on operational support for public structures, the reorganisation of the public health system focusing on primary care, resolution and front with the phenomena of provocative demand for waste and corruption in the health system and critical reforms such as primary care, procurement, the evaluation of new medicines, price negotiations, etc. In the same context, therefore, there is another political project. Indeed, with a great deal of trouble, with a great deal of effort and based on the honest and decent human resources of the system, we have managed these two and a half years to ensure the survival of public care. That was neither self-evident nor given nor easy. And, obviously, with some critical political interventions that have been implemented, which have also had enhanced budgetary support. Every year from the 2015 budget, we managed to strengthen the original forecast for the operating costs of the health system and to reform and amend the budget. This will happen this year, where, due to the facilitated access to hospitals, as well as the increase in the system's turnover due to the recruitment of thousands of nurses, doctors and other staff who have been involved in hospitals over the last two years, we have increased the functioning and efficiency of the system and this will necessarily lead to increased spending. This year, therefore, we have ensured, in consultation with the General Accounting Office of the State and the institutions, additional funding of EUR 80 million for hospitals, EUR 30 million for medicines, EUR 40 million for other operating costs and EUR 10 million for increasing the hourly wage in on-call and overtime staff. We have therefore managed to mobilise critical resources in this difficult period. And public health expenditures as a percentage of GDP, which had collapsed to 4.6% in 2014, were to raise them marginally - but it was very important that this increase - to 5.1% and 5.2% in 2015, 2016 and the coming years. We must therefore present some critical truths. The first truth, then, is that in the 2018 budget we have no cut in public health expenditure. There is another thing about health expenditure and the state grant. It is another thing in the market line, the possibility of public structures, hospitals, health centres buying medicines, materials, services, hiring subsidiary staff, and also money and resource transfer. These are two very critical differences. The first concerns citizens and workers in the system, because it is the material requirement for us to have a reliable public health system, namely how much the public health system can spend, and the second, money-saving, is about the system's accounts and suppliers. The first is a political issue and the second is an accounting issue. So what we have done over these three years is that we have negotiated and increased the market threshold for the system. It was a very critical intervention, which took place in October 2015. This growth trend has continued all this time, and obviously, in the medium term, we have a very enhanced - in relation to the previous medium-term, previous and long-term, - financial programme of operating expenditure of the public health system, where it totalled more than EUR 700 million. What has happened is a reduction in state funding to the health system, public hospitals and healthcare regions. This is, however, overcompensated by the additional revenues that have been transferred through EEAS to hospitals and by the very high cash reserves of the hospitals. This is where I open a parentheses. Now transferring from social security, as a percentage of hospital revenue, is at 35%, is over 1/3 of hospital revenue, when in the previous period it was barely 8% to 10%. Every year, the EEA paid up to a maximum of EUR 100 million to hospitals. In 2016 he paid 533m euros and this year he will exceed 650. So this is another draft policy which says 'a synergy of resources between the state budget and social security'. Of course, using European resources to promote critical interventions and changes, as in primary care, we can also achieve stability and gradual upgrading and development of the public health system. Therefore, there will be no cost cuts or deficits in hospitals, as some prophesy. The net financial position of hospitals, i.e. cash assets, by subtracting liabilities, in 2015 was less than EUR 940 million - deficit - and in 2016, plus EUR 35 million, i.e. there was a surplus. This year, based on the GCC estimates, we estimate it will be EUR 400 million. This is a very critical intervention in budgetary consolidation of the health system. There are no longer any longer arrears of debt and it really ensures the sustainable financing of the system. A second truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that austerity in health, although it has declining marginally, is present and poses obstacles to the central political objective of universal coverage of people's needs. In the memorial period, therefore, we must organise our interventions and there is more financial space to adequately meet the increased needs of people's health and social care in the period of the crisis. At this time, in consultation with the General Accounting Office of the State, with the government's financial staff, we are setting up a Joint Ministry of Health and Economics Committee which will systematically monitor health finances and ensure sustainable financing of strategic planning implemented by the Ministry and demonstrates that the health economy can be at the heart of the government's overall economic policy. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, the support and upgrading of the National Health System and the Social State requires increased public resources and increased tax revenue. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, allow me. I'll be done. We must be very honest: anyone who says he wants to have a good hospital, wants doctors and nurses everywhere, covering all the organic gaps, who says he wants to have a good NSAV, that he wants good health benefits to everyone, that he wants decent benefits from the EEA at the same time, that he wants low rates of tax, low tax revenue and low health insurance contributions, that he is simply mocking the world! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we must be very clear: anyone who wants decent public health care for all and good welfare, must want increased tax revenues, which, of course, will be distributed fairly and will also contribute to the big incomes, which is not happening until now. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying this: for us, health is a real and very vital area for people. It is an area of safeguarding very vital and very critical human rights. It is a social redistribution area, but above all it is an area that has been implementing a fundamental equality programme, as the World Health Organisation has been saying for forty years with the ALMA ATA proclamation. It says, therefore, that health should be equal, effective and universal. ‘Health for all’, this is the slogan of the World Health Organisation. In order to achieve this project with credibility, ladies and gentlemen, we need political forces, political programmes and political staff, which believes in equality and do not consider that inequalities are the natural order of things, not to think that inequalities are contrary to human nature. This is our basic ideological difference. We really support an effort, overall with the government, to guarantee in practice this fundamental human right and not in the words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u291	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Stavuras, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the third budget of the SYRIZA and ANEL Government. And we are talking about him - with the government's responsibility - in conditions of suffocation and misery in the economy, frustration and resignation in society and division in politics. The government leadership, after having passed a number of narratives, which have collapsed, is trying to falsify - we have heard today - since the last cut, that "forty years you have destroyed Greece and now we will take it out of the memorials". But this account is too dead on both sides. It's unbelievable and is in conflict with reality. The truth is that Greece, after the disastrous civil war, made significant progress with efforts by citizens and politicians. Afterwards, and post-population, she spent the best period of her history in the economic, social and political fields. It significantly increased its national wealth and improved the well-being of citizens. He took a position among the thirty most advanced world countries. Of course, these decades have been omissions, mistakes have also been made. On other aspects, less than others more and heavier. However, no one, and certainly Mr Tsipras' left, is entitled to zero the struggles of the generations of Greek citizens and politicians and to be just the judge. When it does so with regard to taxation, distorting historical developments, it unfairs them, citizens and politicians. The sad thing is that the government, instead of learning from our historical past and from the experiences of countries which, during the global crisis, have been found, like us, in a difficult position, is the first priority of its close political interest. So, in the budget debate, instead of approaching issues with sober rationality, it is trying, on the one hand, to mislead people by throwing the burdens on others and, on the other, to fineen its things by throwing the well-known left gold dust. However, its recurring tactics have now been perceived by the citizens. In assessing the budget, in the light of its historically justified ideological and political core, that of social and radical liberalism, the New Democracy concludes that it is a budget of tax austerity, anti-developmental, economically ineffective and socially unfair. I would like to explain that, first of all, the government has failed its development objectives. Initially, a growth rate of 2.7% was predicted for 2017. Now, he's scissorsed at 1.6%. This carabine failure has an explanation. It is because of the government's conscious choice to exaggerate citizens, the inability to implement development reforms and attract investment and reduce liquidity. It is thus confirmed that the Government, after punctuating the economy again to the recession in the period 2015-2016, would lead to short growth. Secondly, overcoming the budgetary targets, instead of government celebrations, must be considered. And that's for three specific reasons. Mr. Friend told him first. Overcoming the targets has led to a sharp decline in growth, with huge costs for the real economy. The second is that overrun is due, among other things, to the ruthless tax and insurance attack, to the forced recovery measures to one million Greek citizens and to the expanded internal attitude of payments. The third reason is - I have put forward relevant figures - that overrun is not due to a reduction in tax evasion, since, for example, according to the European Commission's figures, the increase in indirect taxes over the last two years has increased the loss of VAT revenue, i.e. increased tax evasion. Thirdly, the Government imposes new budgetary measures in 2018, which are trying to serve in society with fantasy garnish, giving them the budget: ‘Structural interventions’. These are new austerity measures of EUR 1.9 billion, which will soon, together with property seizures and property auctions, experience very painfully. Fourthly, the government is more burdensome of the weaker economic strata. As soon as 2018 - I am not talking about other years - the further increase in indirect taxes, the reduction of the CSR, the reduction of the heating allowance, the reduction of the tax deduction for medical services, additional pension cuts, the additional cuts in family allowances, the additional charges on insurance contributions, will dismantle the middle-class, carry burdens on the weaker and make the poor poorer and more. Fifthly, the budget that we are debating will not be the last Memorandum of Understanding. This is because the government has committed itself to monumental policies after 2018 and the budget of the year will include additional austerity measures of EUR 5100,000, such as the new pension cut and the great second left-wing tax reduction - I am leaving aside some of the existing commitments - as well as high primary surpluses for a long period, while the implementation of the necessary debt adjustment measures has been deferred for after the summer of 2018. It is estimated that it can be accompanied by a surveillance and surveillance mechanism. And let the government also mortgage the country's property for ninety years. It is therefore clear that the government rhetoric about supposedly clean exit from the memorials is either another conscious lie or another delusion. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is what needs to be done to make the country come out of the tunnel of crisis definitively and sustainablely. Greece has quite comparative advantages and mainly has well-trained and trained human resources, ready to offer the effort to rebuild our economy. These possibilities will only be successful if we implement those policies, which will highlight them, facilitate them and confirm them. And the New Democracy has them. It has a realistic plan to achieve strong and sustainable growth, to create quality and well-paid jobs and to strengthen social cohesion. The main axes of this are: First axis, the change in fiscal policy by simplifying and stabilising tax legislation, with targeted and gradual reductions in tax rates, as we started to do in 2013 and 2014. To implement this policy, we will, among other things, seek a new reform clause - indeed, we disagree with the clause signed by the current government - in order to achieve higher growth rates than those agreed today by the government with the institutions. How much higher? The institutions that supported Greece in 2014 and accidentally changed them, degressed them, because the government changed them. All citizens will have a share in growth. Besides, the New Democracy has proved to be aware and can better increase national wealth and share it fairer. Indicatively, post-government - to read data - the average price of annual economic growth rates during the period of government in New Democracy was significantly higher than those achieved by the other parties that ruled the country. And with regard to the poverty that Mrs Fotio and Mr Xanthos said, the results of last year's study by Mr Mitrakos - I think you know him - the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Greece - tells everything about what happened to poverty in the past. These are measured historical truths. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am therefore coming back to the increase in wealth will lead to the improvement and sustainability of public debt and, in turn, to the reduction of budgetary targets. The achievement of the new, more realistic primary surpluses will now be achieved through the self-supported development process, without additional austerity measures being taken, while at the same time the financial area to be created will be gradually used for further reductions in tax rates. Secondly, the implementation of reforms and migrations, which will improve the structural competitiveness of the economy, by modernising the functioning of the state, so that this will be effective, modern and productive. Thirdly, strengthening liquidity in the real economy by making the most rapid use of the available European funds, by making use, Mr Haritsis, of the Public Investment Programme, which last year was 500,000, 000, below the target, which you set today, by the end of November, is EUR 3,000,000, under the target. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I hope and hope you get it. The figures of the Greek state budget November 3,000,000 under the target in the ninth month, with the repayment of the government's dues, which have also been increased by the gradual normalisation of the credit expansion. What is needed is the consolidation of a climate of confidence, which will restore deposits in the banking system and rationalise the high accumulated reserves of non-performing loans - but attention! - combining social sensitivity with social responsibility. The fourth axis is the adoption of an integrated strategy for changing the productive model of the economy, which will lead to a reintegration of GDP. The objective is to move to a competitive and extroverted economy, oriented to investment, export and exploit the comparative advantages of each industry, prioritising the improvement of quality and efficiency, limiting - yes, limiting - state embrace and promoting the internationalisation of education, research and technological development, innovation and entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, combining these policies will lead the country to a substantial exit from the crisis. But its implementation requires a reformist, serious, responsible, reliable government, features which the current government does not have or will not have to acquire. That is why the demands of the people from New Democracy are greater. This is not the first time. The political solution is always sought by the New Democracy. An order, which has recorded most and most important successes, smaller mistakes and fewer omissions, compared to its political opponents. That is why, although over time it has been dealt with away from lies and populism, the citizens with their confidence, cumulatively, have raised it as the first, as the most powerful political force in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy as the patriotic, liberal, social, folk, reformist, genuinely progressive and anti-populist political power of the country, expressing the wide social alliance, will be called upon to take the country out of the crisis. She's ready and she'll make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u294	Mr. President, may I have thirty seconds to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u295	I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u296	Thank you. Mr Stavoura, unfortunately you deserve me. I also said in my speech that, unfortunately, although we are tabling the official figures, the risk of opposition will not be stopped. It hasn't been half an hour and you're continuing with it. Today especially, when I submitted the official figures, which show that Greece is the first to be a third consecutive year, to absorb the resources of the NRP, you continue with the risk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u297	I talked about the PPP. The investment programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u298	I didn't interrupt you. Why are you interrupting me? I let you say what you wanted to say without interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u299	You're right. It's my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u300	For the third consecutive year, therefore, Greece will be able to absorb the resources of the co-financed programmes. In relation to the ILO, we are here today talking - you will see the evidence, if you wish, to send it to you - to a better extent than we were at the relevant time last year. Let me also say something to you, because we are talking about absorbing. We, the tricks of the past, in 2012 and 2013, when you started with a public investment programme of 8 billion, which, because you saw that it did not come out, in the middle of the year you reviewed it at 6 billion and then said that we were fully executed, because you reduced it by 2 billion, we would not do it. Nor will we show artificial uptakes with advances, which you gave to the development laws, for which we are now called upon to recover these advances for investments that, as I said in my speech, only 10% of the 2011 development laws have been implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Haritsi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u302	So I'd say be a little more careful, rely on the real facts. It is no bother at all to say congratulations on the fact that for the third consecutive year we are the first country to absorb resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u304	Mr Stavura, one minute and no interactive debate, so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Haritsis, I've been talking about expenditure. Let's get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u306	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u307	I spoke about the expenditure of the Public Investment Programme. The expenditure of the Public Investment Programme in 2016, despite the commitments you made here a month ago, when we discussed the budget, closed 500 million under the budget, at random, as much as the social dividend you gave last year. With regard to 2017, the expenditure of the Public Investment Programme, the figures of the Ministry of Finance that I submitted the other day show that there is a delay in the costs of EUR 3 billion in the ninth month. I hope you will close your budget targets, but the Public Investment Programme, the elements of the state budget confirm that. One more thing. Do not disprove me, because quite simply the text that has leaked the government's agreement with the lenders says that there is a shortfall in expenditure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, I want the floor for the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Haritsis, no interactive conversation, please. Mr Stavros will ask for the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u310	I'm not gonna ask him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u311	You won't ask for the floor again. I'll give you a minute, Mr. Haritsis, but not another interactive conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u312	I should like to accept a criticism, which, however, is indeed a step in the right direction. Three billion? Where did you get the three billion dollars? In other words, you should in fact have a connection with the facts, the official evidence. I repeat: Mr Stakoura, you know very well - and that is why I said it in my prototype - that the Public Investment Plan has been being implemented for twenty years every year - not now - mainly in the last two and three months of the year. The implementation of the Public Investment Programme is always backward. Wait until you see the final figures and then re-enter, but in any case, especially today, you could have been a little more careful, but you didn't find a single word to say about the implementation of the co-financed programmes. That's all he's got on his own.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u313	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "Electronics VENIZELOS" hall and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and three teachers from the High School of Philias Thesprotia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u314	Get ready! Bad money! The New Democracy will give it to the SYRIZA Government! All this coarseness of money, ESRB, Public Investment Program...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u315	All right, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u316	It hurts, doesn't it? What can we do? Why are you protesting? So get ready to pay more taxes and other things to give the NSRP and the Public Investment Programme to all those who have been taking them for so many years, i.e. big capital. It is clear that in the debate on the budget, and more generally, what is being attempted by the confrontation between the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the other parties, New Democracy and PASOK, the parties of the capitalist and Euro-Atlantic one-way, is that the people should be entangled, that the popular discontent - which is great, too great - and that indignation within the walls should remain moving within the system itself. The forged dilemma they have once again put to the Greek people - thousands of them played but tested enough so far - is who is the best manager of capitalist barbarism. Barbarity, however, has no better or worse manager. It's still there. You do everything you can to disorient the world from its real opponent. Really, who's the opponent of the people right now? Go out and say it here as a representative of the government and a parliamentary representative. Is the capitalist system the same? Is the power of monopolies and capital that cynically exploits, with blood the wealth that the people themselves produce? Is that it or isn't it? Isn't that the rival of the miserable life that the worker is convicted of living? What do you say to him - and you of the New Democracy, as traditional, and SYRIZA? You tell him it's not him. You hide him deliberately and consciously. You tell him he's the manager, and if the manager changes, as changed before, and SYRIZA came, his position will change. Life proves the opposite. What's New Democracy telling him? Exactly the same. It's the mismanagement of SYRIZA. If I come, for being genuine, your life will change. So that is what you want to serve with election purposes, but also ideologically in general. Of course, this is where SYRIZA proves an amazing championship. That's why he's rewarding. Statement by the United States of America: "The best relations we had with Greece are with this government". Congratulations! You take the prize and the decoration of American imperialism. What does Dieselblum say, who was the biggest slut in the market, sucking blood? "Congratulations to the Greek Government make the best reforms." What did Shoeble say? "Tsipras has also changed congratulations on this." Isn't that what he said? So here's the prize of German imperialism. How much were you talking about the European Union? In fact, you're proud of getting out of here and the most official lips, what do you think? That with all this we restored the country's international credibility. Congratulations. Who are you trustworthy to now? The international community. Who's the international community? The raw, cynical, bloody face of imperialism and the sovereignty of capitalism worldwide. They congratulate you. Well done, then, you did it. That is what the government has done and that is what it does today. Good for you. Why, what did the American Ambassador say? "Greece is the paradise of investment." Trump said so too. The Prime Minister said so: 'Come and invest, because we have cheap work'. That's what he said. Yesterday, I think, the American Ambassador said that Greece has the best conditions - cheap meat, i.e., workers without rights. That's what he says. What does he mean? Just the country's comparative advantages? So that is what you have achieved and achieved, and that is why you are receiving the congratulations. Unless you tell us that all these shrimps of the people have become saints and the cynical and appalling face, which has brought the memorials, which have sent the people to misery. That's all you said. We're mostly talking to the people. This doesn't make any sense anymore. We believe that the people need to understand what is behind the SYRIZA and the New Democracy fight, which takes sufficient proportions, of course, because the fight for who will manage the same is hard too many times, especially who took the worst measures. That's what's going on here. Four days this is what we hear: 'Do these, forty years in government, we are here and we are doing something different'. So behind this fight, the single line that all governments are following is hidden. They're different parties. No party is the same as the other party. But the parties are not judged that way. They're judged by which line they're following. What New Democracy and PASOK have not been able to do, for many reasons - and why it could not have been prevented, and why it has been strategically blocked. It is clear now and everyone understands it - the SYRIZA Government - ANEL and continued them. Not only did he keep it, but he got additional. New Democracy and PASOK would do the same and leave the smart ones now. Because they're stepping on SYRIZA's policy. Why all this? Because that's how the government found it and couldn't do it differently? But he said he'd tear it all apart. Finally, he tore the Greek people instead of tearing the memoirs. Why? Because the lenders imposed them? But you didn't know? Is that what this is all about? What are lenders? Anything hell or do the interests of capital represent? New Democracy and PASOK took these measures and SYRIZA continued them on the same line, because they are necessary, they are the interests of capital, in order to overcome the capitalist crisis as it may, by charging it to the workers and by giving it to us, as Mrs Fotou quite rightly said, 10% of the companies that have increased profits, when the world died and defeated unemployment and cuts. Why are they forced to do so? To create a capitalist recovery. Anyway, is there not a serious person to tell us that these are the laws of capitalism and can't be recovered if it doesn't break workers, if they don't destroy parts of the capital and if it doesn't take steps to ensure greater profitability? Why don't you admit it? Isn't that what the government does? Isn't that what New Democracy does? Isn't the programme that presents the same thing in the same direction? What's he saying? 'Reduction of labour force'. Did you do it or not in the New Democracy, and now you're on the tiles? You did it. Did you do it, did you go on with it? Or did you raise her? 751 did you bring the minimum? "In the house of the hanged man they don't talk about rope." That's what you did! You've done other things worse: Dissolve industrial relations. Did you or didn't you? And collective agreements you've been feeding various other things. Did you reduce social costs as a whole, whenever there were? Not that they were good, but they're decreasing, because they're the requirements. Do you do generalised privatisations? Yes or no? "The privatisation of PPC is a national crime," Tsipras said. Today, Mr. Chakaloto, what is it? It's not a national crime. Today PPC's privatisation is the engine for the recovery of the economy. I say one example, because there are too many privatizations. Did you take everything off to the hammer, like public property? Yes or no? ‘The water is not sold’. Isn't that what you were saying? Did you do that, too? That's what they wanted, isn't it? So our people must understand, in our view, and so it is that any management of this system, without conflict, without a struggle, has the same results without overturning. Here, I say again, there is more experience. It's three years plus the previous one. The other issue, because we are getting into new, consists of what the account is. Expectation, cultivation of hope, from the recovery, end of the monumental era, new development model. That's the triplet. Isn't that right? Isn't that what you're saying? Yes, let's see. ‘The end of the memoranda’. And the lie has limits. You've got to stop somewhere. But you don't stop. Six hundred and more Memorandum Laws will apply after August 2018 or will they be repealed? What law will be abolished? Tell us what laws will be abolished. Nobody. They will be maintained. 'The end of the measures', you say. 'We have no other measures'. Who are you telling? You have voted for both 2018 and 2019 and until 2060. Have you voted for them or not? You've got it. So why are you saying you won't take any new measures? Plus, the fourth evaluation is coming. Everyone knows that each evaluation is accompanied by measures. Finally, you say to us: 'The end of the memoranda'. Does the European memorandum stop? This debate, which you say and make fun of the world, as you said Europe is changing, which has opened up to the European Union, for the end of austerity, is in line with decisions? What are they saying? More tighter control over budgets than six months, more comprehensive funding from the European Union, not from the workers, but from the business groups, that is, a more tight austerity programme as a whole for workers. You say: 'We will have recovery and development'. Maybe we do. We, we never said there would be no recovery and some growth, 2.5% -3%, no matter what. In fact, you say - and here's the tragedy - that's gonna be fair. Some people are completely out of line. I have heard Mrs Kafantaris say: 'Our development will now be growth in line with human needs'. This is not a laundry on the capitalist development path. Does anyone think capitalist development is fair? Since it is based on human exploitation and since 10% holds 60%, 65%, 70% of GDP, what kind of fair growth is that? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me time, Mr President! So it will be capitalist development. What is the condition? I called her before. That's what you're doing. In order to make growth, you will reduce labour costs - reduced - flexible labour relations, easy, rapid lending, the capital will be given a fatal amount - we have heard it - Public Investment Programme, ESDP, etc. and there will be institutional measures to tackle the labour movement, see strike. Of course, Mr. Brutsis, like Mr. Georgiadis, with whom you are killed every time, what did they say? Come on, here's us, don't be afraid of anything. We are voting for them and you are finally taking a good measure. And we'll tell you again something as a JRC. The right to strike is the last weapon the workers have. It's not haggling, others have tried it. These fairy tales and this humiliation that we are interested in making the labour movement more collective and involving the workers must be cut off. It is a demand for BSE and capital. He's telling you raw, don't read it now, and I'm wasting time. So you should know it's a cause of war. And the JRC says, trying to convince the working class, that the worker is not going to accept it. You don't have an honest word while you're making 15% of these "persons' associations". It's full of all the factory. It makes ‘compounds of persons’ which sign a reduction in collective agreements. Where do you live? Have you been to a factory? Have you seen what the workers are up to? What terrorism is going on every day? Dismissals, wage cuts, unpaid and whoever moves, dies, kicks him out and doesn't get back to work and gets black lists. And you don't have a patronage, you come here talking about the right to strike, and Mr. Skourletis says that we are on dangerous roads and that we are concentrating. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, the previous ones have spoken for more than twenty minutes. I don't understand! Wasn't the government an event? There was a trade union protest. Concentration is when the party does. And we don't do that, and you know that. If SYRIZA did, we wouldn't. And the PAME and the unions they were. But, regardless of that, so as not to hide, when protesting, when different forms of protest occur, what are these? Concentrations? And what are you going to do? Will you take non - paper or directive when will the workers come out and when will they not come out? When will they fight and when won't they fight? And will Mr. Friend come out and tell him to answer the mass movement? That's where we're going? What do you think workers will do back? Or that we're gonna go back or that we're gonna be scared? Or do you start any story about anti-SYRIZA fronts etc.Huh? We also experienced these with PASOK, "earned food, shaved". That's what PASOK said. When he was squeezing, he said that the JRC was working on the right and you're turning against the democratic party. In conclusion for all of this, you offer the best rinsing services of the capitalist system. Don't move your head because you told Trump that we had common values and common ideals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u317	I'm moving it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u318	Didn't you say? Isn't that how the Prime Minister said? Didn't he say he was devilishly good at American imperialism? Isn't that what he said? What's this? It's not a laundry machine, is it? It's space-tech laundry! You rinse the system itself, the capitalist. You've washed it with a technique that PASOK started and you're improving it. Example: Healthy entrepreneurship. What's more good? We fight rot and not healthy, as if healthy entrepreneurship were not based on the exploitation of the working class and the workers, it is not worth it, it is not, it is not. That's what you're doing. Laundry, literally. And your courage is that you say that - I cannot say it, it is missing and I do not want to name it - we are classic in favour of the weak. Isn't that right? Of course, anyone can say what they want. So let's see if we can make an account of your budget. Taxation of natural persons: EUR 460 million. Enlargement of a real estate tax base: 180 million. These are popular layers. Increased by indirect taxes - VAT and others - is 500 million. We've reached 1.15 billion. Reduction of insurance costs, care, social protection, 1.6 billion. Evaporation, half the heating allowance. These are the class measures for workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Paphie, don't complain. You're in the seventeenth minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u320	If I put the time of the other parliamentary representatives, it's over an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u321	You're already in the seventeenth minute, Mr. Pafile. Finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President, in advance. The other side: Decrease the participation of legal persons - isn't it? - and businesses in the 2018 tax. Reduce tax rate from 29% to 26%. At 100 million profits, it saves 3 million taxes. I don't want to name a business, because there are businesses that still have more profits. What else? Support from ESDPs and others. So is the government's policy classic? Of course it is. Travelling, in favor of capital. Bring me different evidence if you have it. Also, this dividend trick and the rest of it is, first of all, not new. All capitalist countries at times are given. They don't want people to die completely, because they don't know what happens next. You're giving! But what is this logic of giving? Why are they yours? Where did you get them? Of all the others. Is this the world? Take the oven and the bread and give it crumbs. And you come out and you advertise it in a kind of provocative way. Get off a little bit! Finally, you are once again setting up a trapping plan for the people. It's not about conspiracy. That's what they're trying to do in the logic of less evil. Now the New Democracy has come out to the least of the evil, and before you said it was you. Now it says: of course, but less. But you're in the same direction. What do we say? There's nothing wrong with the world. He's seen everything. One is the solution: Races, turbulence in the trade union movement, massification, class orientation. Don't be afraid. Besides, they'll hang him if he's scared. They're going to step on him even more. Getting to the forefront, targeting the overthrow. And because it's said to be the international connection, listen to me. In the history of all mankind, in the major crises and in the big curves, two were perceptions in the face of the correlation of forces, which is indeed ugly. One is subdued, and the other is to fight to overthrow him. You go with the first one, so you say what we can do. And because I promised, Mr. Chakalotos knocked on the bell and the watch on the Stock Exchange - the bell is, but he's belling the clock too - he can be ringing at midnight today. We know it is. But you should know that the same will mean the awakening of the people and the place will not fit you then. And you know he'll be here very quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u323	You don't have any complaints, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u325	The Minister of Finance, Mr. Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u326	I would like to reply a little bit to the representative of the JRC, without jokes, because I always take what you say seriously. If I understand correctly, the main body of your speech is that capitalism is one and the same, it is unfair in nature and therefore, all we are discussing in this House is the management of one or the other of this system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u327	You're talking, not talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u328	Yes, I do. I want to tell you two, three examples. In 1970, over 0.1% of the American people had twenty - eight percentage points less wealth than under 90%. Now he's got the same. So, 0.1% right now in America has as much wealth as 90% the lowest. Secondly, to go from wealth to income, in the '70s in Germany the average high-ranking manager had seven or eight times more than an employee's wage. Now he's forty or he's on his way to seventy. So I ask: is capitalism exactly the same? Doesn't it change form? These things, which were different in 1970, weren't they via workers' matches within the capitalist system? Thirdly, Portugal came out of the programme and came out of the programme, the first thing it did - you know that the Portuguese Government, the socialist supported by the Communists, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Bloc - has increased the minimum wage. The second thing he did is that growth and investment have returned. Fourth example. There is now a great debate in Europe, where we have two points on the right, let us say so. One is neoliberal, and the second is the nationalist-cultural right, like what they say about immigrants. You know what I mean. And there are, on the other hand, some who fight for a different Europe, with different rules. Why am I saying that? I will not tell you about success and all these arguments - I will answer my speech - but I will ask you a very specific question. The working class, the workers, your social base, on which you wish to address it, was stronger in the US of 1970 or in America of 2017? Your social base, employees, were stronger in Germany, 1974 or in Germany, 2017? Will the Portuguese workers be stronger after this socialist - communist - political government? Does it have more courage, greater ability to intervene or less? The working class in Europe, if neoliberal views go through, that there is no need for change or reform of the European Union, that it needs nothing, that it has no big budget, that there is no need for investment in large public goods, that it will be stronger or more impossible? Because it's not just what's going on, but what a prospect you give. And the prospect you give depends on how the worker feels. And if the worker is stronger than we are in full employment, he is stronger when we are approaching higher minimum wages if he has more security. Otherwise - which I do not believe - your theory is that things must be destroyed before they go well. We don't believe it. We are striving to change these connections, so that the working class can be made more possible either through minimum wages or a change in Europe, and we understand that this can only be done at supranational level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u331	However, we must not have an interactive debate. You're welcome, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u332	It can't be done. You're telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u333	And I tell everyone the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u334	Everyone else made interventions, and two and three times. Who didn't talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u335	How many minutes do you want, Mr. Paphie?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u336	Three minutes, there is a lot of it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u337	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u338	First of all, Mr Chakaloto, thank you for telling us that capitalism is becoming increasingly dangerous and deadlocked, that it brings the wealth of society together in a few hands, that it has been historically bankrupt as a social system, that it cannot provide a way out for the people. That's what we say. You say you can improve him with your policy. If you do, then, historically reduced, you have forgotten a few parameters. First parameter: Socialist camp, Soviet Union and socialist countries, which exerted great pressure on the conquests they had and forced capitalism to make concessions. Secondly, because of this fact, a strong communist and labour movement in all the countries of the world. It forced capitalism to make concessions, what you are saying, and today the lack of this and a strong labour movement of course has completely released it. And thirdly, he would do that anyway, because he can't otherwise go ahead with the capitalist system itself, which you know very well. And what we were talking about at that time and you used to smash us into various, opportunists, social democrats, and so on.Huh? We were saying that the conquests of the working class in capitalism, as much as they were, are temporary and will get them back as soon as they can, in one night. Who's been vindicated, us or you? Let the world judge all this. The second issue. Portugal. Amazing success. An increase of EUR 0.88 to the salary. That's what you said. That's him! You know that? How much is it? Make an account.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u339	Better than twelve reductions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u340	Make an account. In Portugal, what you say increased wages is EUR 0.88.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u341	In euros or in percentages?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u342	In euros. It's EUR 0.88. Read it. You know, we're using them very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u343	Better than twelve reductions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u344	What do you want? You're talking about a reduction? Didn't you make a cut? Don't provoke me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u345	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u346	As far as investment is concerned, of course, investment will also be made here. Did anyone say it wouldn't happen? The sacrifices of the whole people will go to specific capitalists, to invest, win, etc. And they will also create some jobs - we have no objection to that - which will be relations between the globe. There are already. Is that the way out for the workers? That is what we are going to say to those who produce wealth, which belongs to them and who do not even need capitalists today - why is society mature, to go to another system, which possess the wealth they produce - and can manage society perfectly, with planning, with national planning, with the experience they have? This is our difference. We tell them that, you tell them 'healthy'. Capitalism isn't cured.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u347	It's not that easy. That's what we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u348	Mrs. Baja, please don't interrupt. Mr. Paphie, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u349	I say, then, that what we have to answer today and answer as a JRC - and we are in a radically different direction - is that this system has now been historically overcome and that it cannot and does not even want to give what the worker had before. I'll give you a simple receipt. What party, in Greece or in Europe or in America or around the world tells workers that with his policy he will return to 2009? Tell me one. You say that? You don't dare. Says who? Does New Democracy say so? He doesn't dare. Does PASOK say so? He doesn't dare. The Social Democratic Party of Germany, America, etc. Is that what they call it? That's the greatest proof. So overthrow. It's over. And our position is that the workers, fighting to improve their position, will even be able to extract some conquests, only if they mark the path of overthrowing, and if they fear, to grant. Even if this is the case, however, the situation is not saved. They'll get what they own. And it's all!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, give me thirty seconds, because Mr Pafilis has said an inaccuracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u351	But, Minister, we must conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u352	Thirty seconds. You'll see, it won't be any more. Mr. Pafile, I was informed that the minimum wage in Portugal from 505 euros went to 530 euros. So, it's not 0.88. That's the first. It doesn't matter, you made a mistake, but let's talk about it again. Whatever it is about facts, we should talk about it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u353	I said it's 0.88 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u354	You said 83 cents. It's not 83 cents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u355	I said it's EUR 0.88 a day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u356	It's 0.88 a day, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u357	"But," I think... I want to tell you something serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u358	If you multiply 0,88 times 25, how much does it do? What if it's so much, like, what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u359	It's more than 5% increase. The main thing is that you criticized me for forgetting pieces of the story, that I was selective. Let me tell you, however, that you too have forgotten an important part of history. When you say that capitalism comes to an end, that it has exhausted all the possibilities of this system, you know - and the KKE more than many other parties - that in this case is not just the left solution. Historically, we have seen a solution that the working class paid for more than any other class. And I mean fascism, nationalism, racism and war. So, do not say so easily that, since we have this capitalism, with these inequalities and with this inability to respond, we must do nothing to prevent these forces, which have cost so much and above all, in the working class, in Europe above all, but also in many other parts of the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u360	Mr President, the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u361	Mr. Paphie, you can see everyone's reacting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u362	That's right for ten seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u363	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u364	Social democracy in Germany, where fascism developed, played the most dirty role at the time. So don't tell us. Second, you got them all. Now you're going to international! I don't know where you're going after. The People's Party? What else is left? Aren't you attending the meetings?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u365	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Aygeakis, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u366	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm gonna need your tolerance for a few minutes. I tell you in advance, so that we do not have bells and, above all, comments from the Bureau. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my introduction with a phrase by Mr Tsipras. He said, therefore, the Prime Minister, in December 2014 from the post of Officer of the Armed Forces on the 2015 budget: “If the budget is not approved by a hundred and eighty MPs, the government will agree with SYRIZA for national elections.” Of course, after a few weeks you did cause elections. So we ask Mr Tsipras and you to do the same. First to do what he asked himself three years ago. We therefore propose that, if the budget is not approved by eighty-eight Members, the government agrees with New Democracy and we go to national elections. Political change is the only solution to get us out of the crisis and end the misery of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Mr Ministers, the budget you have tabled, in addition to being unfair, is deeply undeveloping, over-taxes the Greeks, but also poorens the middle class. For a third consecutive year, he submits a budget. By hitting the incomes of employees, pensioners and free trades. The budget brings new cuts. It brings unjust, painful and unjust measures. It brings an increase in taxes, an increase in insurance contributions and a reduction in social costs, as well as a reduction in hospital grants and EEAS. It brings new measures of EUR 1.9 billion. Already in 2018 you have voted and will implement measures such as a reduction in the EKT of EUR 238 million, a abolition of the deduction for medical expenses of EUR 121 million, a abolition of the 1.5% deduction in the retention of a tax of around EUR 68 million, a change in the method of calculating the contributions of free professionals of around EUR 59 million. Also, the increase in VAT on the islands - you remember what you were saying! - it's 50 million euros. The reduction of the heating allowance is EUR 58 million. The pension freeze - you who are sensitive to pensioners! - it's 328m euros. There are wage cuts for a hundred and fifty thousand teams, as well as the abolition of allowances for those entitled to social solidarity benefits. Minister, you are bringing a budget to the vote, which increases taxation, burdens pensioners, strangles farmers, destroys the free professionals and the private economy, abolishes a large number of social costs, increases the public's overdue debts by creating major health problems in particular. A few days ago, you caused the common feeling, and indeed, Mr. Tsipras himself with a spot that showed him to share a social dividend. Let's remember that there were some bad guys on the spot on the other side who were smoking cigars. The spot made it clear that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government will effectively punish these bad riches, demonstrating and systematically investing in class hatred. Who did the government mean by this spot? Who had this spot creator in mind, with the bad guys, with the cigars and all that? Who really belong to these rich people? For example, are the people from Grevena - who were found a few days ago - who will lose 50% of the heating allowance, the people who lost the EASS, the pensioners, who will see their pensions tied up by 1-1-2018, the taxpayers, who will be asked to pay another twenty-seven new taxes? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we inherited you with balanced budgets and budgets that created a primary surplus, and you, with the policy of "negotiation" and short-sighted policy, have led us to the recession, to primary budgetary deficits, to the increase in public debt, to a third, but also to a fourth unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum. And it is the third budget of excessive austerity of SYRIZA - ANEL. You continue the unsuccessful recipe for fourth year. It's a political paranoia that you're doing. Mr. Tsipras is the Prime Minister of Taxes, he is the Prime Minister of Mississipras. Mr Tsipras is the Prime Minister who, on the one hand, takes apartments and, on the other, gives dividends. The budget you are bringing is for another year of centralisation, even focusing on indirect taxes. Today's policy is disastrous. Despite the constant government vows, the economy remains locked in the trap of low growth. In the 2017 budget you anticipated, as you said, growth of 2.7% and you are finally hoping for 1.6%. For 2018, you were expecting a growth rate of 2.5%. Persistent growth rates undermine economic prospects. Every year you put the cubits down and down, and unfortunately, you always pass underneath. In short, we have the total denial of your memorial rhetoric. The citizens of the government have given you two opportunities, namely an opportunity for an anti-immemorandum and an opportunity for a memorandum. You don't deserve a third chance. You're done. You've made your failures. All you have left is to leave as soon as possible. We want, ladies and gentlemen, Greece with growth rather than a tax storm. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, two more minutes. No nation in history survived the tax burden, which reached two thirds of its national income. True prosperity cannot give the great party state that you promote with real well-paid jobs. No worker has lived a decent life when he needs, ladies and gentlemen, to work four out of five days for the state and one for his family. True dignity is not with one hand continually spread in the state of benefits and the other hand for foreigners on loan. We want, ladies and gentlemen, a middle-class firm and not devastated and devastated by taxation. Because the middle class is the driving force of the economy, with free professionals and private initiative. Not in the attack on the private economy, for reasons of class hate. We want real patriotism, not national responsibility, for the sake of party tactics. National responsibility is in your ideology, whether you believe it or don't believe it. We have proved that, with difficult decisions, in difficult times, decisions that have been vindicated by history.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u367	Mr. Ausgekis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u368	You're welcome, Mr. President. I need another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u369	Look, I'm not gonna ruin your show, but what should we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u370	Please, Mr President, two colleagues have been speaking for twenty minutes, without interrupting them. You were giving time without any interruption. Please, your tolerance! The statements by government officials calling a "success" are insulting - please be careful! - that people no longer eat from garbage. This is not progress. It's a disgrace, it's an insult to the citizens! The Greek economy could and should today grow at a rate higher than the Eurozone average, as developed, that is, in 2014. Instead, we are developing at the lowest pace of the Eurozone and we are discussing the so-called way out of the programmes, when we all know that the government has committed the country to very high primary surpluses and has already voted for measures of EUR 5.1 billion that will be implemented in 2019 and 2020. These measures will affect the weakest. The recent pension cuts, the reduction of tax, the 'first time left' income tax on people who earn EUR 400-500 a month, is unfortunately the legacy that Mr Tsipras is inherited. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against the budget for all these reasons. But remember, three years ago, things were better. Even today, Mr. Tsipras can offer services that are positive to the country. Get out of here now. It's the best you have to do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, too, but I would ask you to apply the order and the times. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, will now speak, then Mr. Spartan and Mr. Karragunis, and then Minister of State, Mr. Kontonis. Mr. Mada, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u372	Is the last parliamentary representative for today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u373	Yeah, for today there's no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u374	Mr President, there is no one else for today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u375	Yeah, I know. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u376	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it is commonplace to point out that spinning for the new year in 2018 finds Europe and the world as a whole in a complex development, with many open issues and challenges. The year before, it closes, first of all, with the Palestinian front open, following the unacceptable Trump decision, setting fire to the Middle East. It closes with the issues of climate change first priority, which require urgent decisions from all countries and prevents any superpower from "swirling its hands". It closes with migration and refugee flows to intensify together with people's dramas, as long as war fronts are open, inequality and poverty, with a Europe in front of critical decisions and choices for its future on the background of the unacceptable proposals of Tusk for immigration, the Brexit background and German government uncertainty, the gray hypocritical background of the legal and moral Panama and Paradise Papers, with urgency the needs for deep changes, for a social Europe, a Europe of solidarity, open, without austerity and dramatic inequality, a Europe that can only exist as a Union against nationalist replications and the dark prospects, created by the new rise of fascist and right-forms, as well as by the hits of terrorism in the European capitals. In this context, our country, ladies and gentlemen, despite the deep wounds of its long stay in the memorial and hard financial adjustment rules, is a pole of stability, peace and friendship for the wider region. We must not forget that, despite the opposite approaches to the exercise and orientation of our international relations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made this introduction - in my opinion necessary - to think more about the global context of the world and of Europe when we discuss the budget of our country, a small but historic country, with an undeniable impact on the formation of human adventure, with a unique geopolitical position. Ladies and gentlemen, we are used to saying these days that the 2018 budget is one foot in the third programme, the third memorandum and the other outside. There are things in this direction. That's the way it is. Everyone accepts it and admits it, except perhaps blind opposition approaches, and they know very well that the country can go to the other side. It's obviously not a myth that SYRIZA is trying to build. It is a reality that is shaped by great sacrifices, but also hard work and commitment to the roadmap. There are strong indications of such a development. I speed up some. The rapid closure of the technical agreement of the third assessment, the fall of Greek bonds under the 4% dam after eleven years, the achievement of the budgetary targets for the third consecutive year with over-performance and many others. We are not, of course, underestimating the difficulties and possible obstacles, the very hard work we still have before us until we arrive in August 2018 and mainly afterwards. And then I say, in the sense of the pressing needs of Greek society and the strengthening of the demands for their coverage, but also the simultaneous requirement to respect the rules and reforms imposed by the framework in which our country is located, as well as the need for deep, progressive reforms and interventions, to the benefit of the social majority, as a project of our own Left. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget, on each budget, is of particular importance to public debate, to people's lives, to the future of the country. At the same time, they are forced to take stock of the previous year, although the future always has greater appealing power, as the past is already experienced. The 2018 budget is, as we have said, already in the passage towards a new situation of less committee, greater freedoms, which means greater responsibility for policies being pursued. It is undoubtedly key and difficult in terms of its budgetary objectives, namely achieving a primary surplus of 3.5%, but it inspires the stabilisation of the economy and the improvement of the climate. The 2018 budget prescribes the necessary preparation for the safe and sustainable exit from the strict committee of the memorandum, so that there is no need for a line of support, which I have heard in an indirect way in his speech by Mr Venizelos - I will return to small intervention on certain issues tomorrow - by creating a security cushion above EUR 10 billion. This budget does not incorporate, despite the screams and catastrophe of systemic media, new budgetary measures. However, measures of one billion are indeed being activated. It's important to see who these are. It is, indeed, the abolition of the exemption from medical expenses EUR 121 million, but at the same time it is also the abolition of the 25% tax exemption from Members and judges who are EUR 40 million. It is the abolition of the 1.5% discount, which is not even EUR 10 a year for all natural persons, but it is a burden. Is it also the Airbnb tax that reaches 48 million or should it be exempted from taxation? It is also the 178 million increase from GDP growth. There's that in there, too. All that's from the revenues. The increase in taxes, which are 439 million, results exclusively from the excise duty on tobacco, which, while we voted on from the beginning of 2017, by the middle of the year cigarettes sold with the old tax. Therefore, for 2018, which will not be the case, we expect this amount of new revenue. The 2018 budget is socially discriminatory in favour of a large majority of our fellow citizens. Those who claim, continue to claim - and I have heard it from top officials of the New Democracy today, not from Mr Stakoura - following various non papers, that it is falling by 1,600 000 000, know that this is not true or completely irrelevant, as complete answers have been given from the financial staff and from the relevant ministers. They know, for example, that the benefits of the social dividend, EUR 700,000 for vulnerable groups, plus EUR 315,000 for the return of illegally held, cannot be reflected in the 2018 budget again. But what stands out in the 2018 budget is, in my opinion, the targeted actions for family and child poverty. Family allowances, despite news of abolition, are increasing by EUR 260,000, 000, i.e. 40%. There is the necessary rationalisation, which, in fact, for some categories of more efficiently high-texts, brings down, but we are benefiting overall - and the Minister responsible has analysed them - much more, especially in the category of income up to EUR 27 000, substantially strengthening the first and second children with EUR 260,000, as I said, an increase. With an additional EUR 400,000,000 per hundred, thirty-eight thousand primary school students will eat hot meals in 2018, and this year ten thousand new jobs will be added to four hundred new structures for infants and infants. Finally, the 2018 budget creates the ground for us to have a growth of 2.5% of GDP. Those who blame us and say that this is not the case, because you failed in 2017 and why you are against investment, as well as many others, deliberately ignore too many things. Among those who are ignorant are the duration of the negotiation, of the tough negotiation, of the closure of the second assessment and of the differences that exist - and this has pulled the negotiation so - between the institutions. This has then proved undeniably and I do not think that anyone can seriously claim that this was not a key reason why all this time - that is, in the first half, if you like - was determined by the second assessment procedure. They also ignore the fact that we already have for three consecutive quarters a quarter, that we have a significant export growth, mainly by 7.6%, an increase in industrial activity by 5.3% in the first seven months of 2017, an increase in foreign direct investment of 142% in 2016 and a new rise in the first nine months by 69%, a spectacular absorption of the NRP. It has been presented today and it is undeniable that we have successfully closed the chaos we have received from the previous programme and we have been in the second place in Europe to make use of the Juncker programme. The Eurogroup itself on 15 June noted the excellent use of resources, which has brought Greece more than EUR 11,000,000 over the last two years. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, we do not claim that everything is being done perfectly. Alas. We're not saying there are no omissions, no mistakes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two more minutes, Mr. President. What I think is mainly attempting from the standpoint of counterpopulation is to hide our basic effort. And our main effort is to change the country's productive model. The majority, for example, of investment projects in the new development law are in the industrial sectors. This is a change from monoculture, which we have had all the previous time, of tourism and only investment. Obviously there is a greater possibility of control and transparency, and there is dispersal on many sides and no funding is given only to the few who took the lion's share, nor 100% advances are made to show up for absorption and then create carcases. Evidently, he respects the rules on work and the environment, preventing supposedly greed that only costs will be borne in the affected country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people know, I think, very well, that we are doing, in very difficult conditions, with difficult connections, a very great effort to bring the country up. Our effort is honest and honest. We do not hide that with the forced choices, after the difficult compromise of the summer of 2015, problems were added to the citizens in our country, that large parts of the population suffer, that we are still in austerity. We're not celebrating, we're not celebrating with success story. We appall the criticism of ordinary people of mistakes and omissions, of delays and suffering. We are, however, continuing, and we are not abandoning this difficult front. On the contrary, we are here, present. I want to make a political assessment - and to close with it - of all the debates that have taken place. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, in the field of economics and budgets, therefore, the New Democracy and, more generally, opposition has been defeated strategically. That is why it is not, as you can see, the main point of controversy. They're trying to take confrontation to other fields. They know very well that they cannot in this field exercise structural controversy. They've lost strategically. As long as, for the rest of the pursuit - which unfortunately also includes the Communist Party of Greece, in a different way - they want to put SYRIZA in the same frame as others. This is the real pursuit of all that we have been living in the last few years. So it's obvious that we're in a metachmine. I think that they have come in, the main lines have been drawn up, and I believe that in 2018, next year, we will be able to set the country back on its feet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u377	Thank you. Mr. Spartinos, SYRIZA Member, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr President. With the relative low tolerance, I too. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many ways of criticising a budget. But dominion remains always a question: is criticism of the debate productive and above all about society? Is it aimed at highlighting weaknesses, improving proposals, real controversy, even when it rejects a vote? Because his refusal to vote could contain useful elements. Unfortunately, the vast majority of those who refuse to vote were far away from such an approach. From the point of view of the rapporteur of the New Democracy on the first day, we heard a court of law, and I would call it criticism, which was solely intended to exempt his party from any sacrifice. And then, of course, many others followed. Because the Ombudsman is well aware, I am sorry, the rapporteur, I wanted to say, that they are not exempted from their offences. There is no political limitation on these in the conscience of the Greek people. Analogous, on a different rhetoric canvas, the position of the rapporteur for the DISY with some shameful distances from the New Democracy, so as not to jeopardise the fate of a potential new, future consul. Of course, from this place, each one and his own violin, each one and his own purposes. The New Democracy and the PASOK, when it comes to concepts such as memorandum, remission, austerity, unemployment, surpluses, give the impression that they have come from beyond, that they are not of this world. They're like air, alien creatures, like the ones that sometimes come down to Hymitus and reveal secrets. These people have not been in power, they have not been corrupted, they have not been corrupted, they have not been destroyed and they cannot understand that today some people who do not mean to be like them, who have taken political - and not only - risks and have taken responsibility for taking out the Greek society not only from the memoranda but also from the mud in which it had fallen for many years. Looks like these other people are making it. Equally sterile and deliberate - from another direction, of course - is the KKE's warfare, repetitive and weakened echo that comes from a heroic past, but is unable to create a visible, hopeful future, giving battles for the maintenance of the party acquis, as if they did not know that the Left has almost always fought in conditions that were imposed upon it. We have not chosen the luxury of avoiding the burden assigned to us. We refused to speculate from society's misery. We have not claimed that the government's third budget - in fact, how many of the opposition wanted to think that it would trim the evil for them? - has been relieved of any sign of austerity and of all the existing pressures that the country had loaded, that it has managed to taxly decompress to the desired extent, especially the middle layers. We claim, however, that in an increasingly improved way all our three budgets have achieved a milder budgetary adjustment than the older, more fairer burden-sharing and with the support of the economically vulnerable people. The 2018 budget is the last to be submitted under the adjustment programme and marks the entry of the country into a new period of economic, social and democratic upswing. I would like to remind you very briefly of two issues which the opposition is forgetting, for example, of our perception and practice. On the one hand it is the social state, public spending, employment. We received 27% unemployment. Today it's close to 20%. 2018 will be significantly below. It was completed for 2017 by the CRL of 760 million, and for 2018 another 300 will be added to combat child poverty. We've received a health system - space for big business. It is no coincidence that the transmission of the committee dealing with scandals in the field of health is one of the very popular television broadcasts for the Greek people. We re-established primary care. We hired staff. We ensured free medical and pharmaceutical care for uninsured people. For 2018, there is no expenditure reduction planned and for 2019, as Minister Andreas Xanthos rightly said, there must be a clear increase. We received an educational system with schools to start on a practical basis much later than their typical start due to a lack of books and teachers, with continuous reductions in staff and higher education. We restored the proper functioning of schools, started recruitment in tertiary education as well. For 2018, there is an increase of 184 million or 3.6%. On the other hand, our development policy was presented in detail earlier by Deputy Minister Alexis Haritsis. I do not want to insist and repeat the same. But he overthrowded the claims of the Opposition for the Public Investment Programme, the progress of the NSRP, the progress of the development law. I will repeat that the previous development law of the previous governments had implemented only 10% of the projects, with advances of up to 100% on best-popular investment projects that have never been implemented and must now be repaid as unduly paid. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to say that we were here on a mandate from the people in September 2015, to manage the economic crisis, in which the New Democracy and the PASOK led us with their decisions and their submission to the hurdles of those who today unaware of the wrong policies they have imposed on the Greek people. Colleagues of counterpopulation, as they see that the country can go on a clear road, unlike the interests of the few, the jacks, the children of heaven, who have been playing with the papers of heaven for years and years, have served their own selfish development at the expense of the development of society. The task of the Left and its allies is to stop the food of those times and share the benefits with justice, i.e. by redistributing and respecting public resources. This is for some. This bias will not be denied because it is a pillar of our ideology, our policy, our own programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u379	Thank you. We shall proceed to the next speaker, Mr Karagunis, Member of the New Democracy. Please, Mr. Karagunis, you have the floor for six minutes. Time is for granted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u380	Thank you very much, Mr President. We heard the Finance Minister and the other ministers earlier. Everything that the government supports or tries to support in the budget debate conflicts entirely with the political image of the time, which, in relation to the government, is composed of three specific things: First of all, under the ramification of an imported fiscal balancing that the SYRIZA government wants to cultivate - and to some extent it is entitled, not in the sense that it believes in budgetary balance, but in the sense that it has proved to be the most obedient application of the memoranda - the government simply recycles any available - constantly reduced - money there is, on its knees - by its confession - by the taxes of the middle class and, more generally, the productive forces of the country, on which growth depends. For SYRIZA's people, of course, there's no problem. They hate owners, hate householders, hate those who believe in hard work and what they deserve from them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u381	So hateful?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u382	So hatred! Your greatest fear is just to spread the message of the private economy more widely in society. Because in a society of economic prosperity and understanding there will be no army of the professionally indignant, who each day burns Exarches in the name of the left revolution. With one word, fiscal seriousness along with overtaxation, class hatred, which I spoke to you before, and war cannot go hand in hand. But we said, they are the people who even fined the KOK differentiate according to income. Unique case in world times! Not even in Venezuela have they made laws with such unambiguous class hatred, which I also spoke about. Secondly, not only does the budget sound unreasonable in this misrepresentation of benefits to others, which you do in every way, but the problem is even greater. Because despite the credit Mr. Tsipras received from yesterday, supposed opponents outside Greece, because despite the fictitious account of exiting the markets, the truth is that he was photographed indirectly but clearly two days ago by Mr. Draghi, who said that if Greece needed another program it would depend on Greece itself. Do you know why he said it? Because everyone knows that despite the giant fiscal adjustment at the expense of the dissolution of the middle class in Greece, in the era of SYRIZA the competitiveness of the Greek economy, which is the greatest demand for the future, despite economic devaluation, has actually deteriorated. Anyone who knows the real picture of the economy, what the rulers claim, would really listen to them as a magical picture. Why, of course, after a decade that Greece lost in 1/4- and over - its GDP, and while in 2014 the economy had turned to growth, minus 0.3% of 2015, minus 0.2% of 2016 and the anemic growth rate that the government currently anticipates, there is absolutely nothing to mark. Because I was listening earlier - there was also a debate by my colleagues - on Mr Haritsis who was unsuccessfully trying to answer Mr Stakoura about the expenditure of the Public Investment Programme, what did we say to you? Last year you were targeting 6.7 billion euros and finally absorbed, according to the budget figures, 6.288 million, i.e. 500,000, 000 less. This is a given of your passing failure. This year in the nineteenth, you're at 3.058.000,000. In other words, they are already missing from the real market of EUR 3.7 billion. Mr Haritsis tells us: 'We will achieve the targets in the last three months, that is to say we will achieve the target of EUR 6.7 billion.' But the question, ladies and gentlemen, is that time is over. As much as you do - which, unfortunately, you have not done all year round - the target of 6.7 billion will not be caught. And at the end of the year this will be certified. Mr. Squirrel will tell you in a month you haven't got the target. However, the main - and this is the essence - is what, unfortunately, will be seen as how many millions you have deprived of the real economy. Development, therefore, does not mean a country in which the most economic and active sections of the population pay over 70% of their income in taxes and contributions, does not mean a country that lost half a million talented, young people and every survey brings young people back to 75% and above that their only dream is to leave Greece, is not meant to be a country which very soon, after the full development of the consequences of the Katrugalo Law, pensioners, who have so far absorbed the vibrations of unemployment by subsidising young people, will receive pensions of 300 euros. In such a country, therefore, any thought of growth and returning to normality, with SYRIZA taxing what is moving, is cheap propaganda. I fear that the story of the memorials is not over at all and that the difficult ones come with Greece to remain for the visible future and certainly for as long as SYRIZA remains a poor and desperate country. Thirdly, because that is what is happening and because the people who govern us know what the state of the economy is and they also know that their days in power are counted, instead of trying to mitigate the disastrous consequences of their policy, by finally listening to the other Greece, the silent majority that is fighting and squeezing, they again - the only phenomenon in the world's political time, they have a unique concern to fight until the very last moment in the chair. So, apart from the class hatred they sow, as I said, in addition to the impoverishment of which they are enthusiastic followers, because they think they will better control an impoverished society, they have been so blinded and their thirst is such that they remain in power, which no longer hesitantly exceed any limit, attacking every institution of the state, church, education, police and, above all, the guarantor of the democratic constitution that is justice. Today, the Association of Prosecutors of Greece with its resolution publicly denounces the government for trying to manipulate justice. And he denounces you, Lords of Government and Minister of Justice, that you are building a democracy with your interventions. And for today's plenary decision of the Council of State on "subjects", the government commented. And what did they say? "Let's see who's getting tired first." In what? War? Obviously. You have declared war on justice. Say it clearly, because I will really challenge anyone in this Chamber to look for and bring us a case like this to a western country - I would also say to a Latin American country - where the Minister of Justice openly punishes the judges on its verdict, and the Prime Minister himself covering it, setting him as a criterion for the control of justice not the law, the conscience and the freedom of opinion of judges, as protected by the Constitution, but - listen - listen - to the common sense of law. According to this incredible logic, how many channels will work in Greece, whether hooded people can get in and break everything, you have to - according to SYRIZA - to be decided by means of help or better according to the wish of the Minister of Justice and the wish of the Prime Minister. Let's not hide. Greece currently has a problem with democracy, as the prosecutors say today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u383	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u384	I shall conclude, Mr President. And in such a country, the debate on the budget is fictitious, because if we want to structure a country that is able to make progress financially, we need a country that is development-friendly, a country of understanding rather than a country of disrepute to the social groups and a country with a state-law that judges will be protected and will not be terrified. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Whatever we say today, Greece, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA you are yelling at the moment, does not exist. And only when this Greece exists can it make sense for every debate about the economy. And by interpreting what I see and hear in particular in my region, I will sum up it up in only three words that I think are codified: Gentlemen, finally, go! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u385	The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, some time ago an interesting dialogue was held in the Chamber between the Minister of Finance and Mr Venizelos. And they were interesting, because anyone can understand from what they said, what a situation has been delivered by the PASOK-New Democracy conflict, what situation we have received and where we are. Mr. Venizelos, in support of his allegations, submitted a document from the Eurogroup of November 2014 in which some positive comments were received on the Greek economy. The Minister of Finance replied to him that next month, December 2014, in a new Eurogroup document, these positive reports did not exist. And Mr. Venizelos justified it and said: But in December 2014 it was already known that the government did not succeed with a government majority in the election of the President of the Republic, that the government had collapsed and that the image of the economy was changing in the markets. However, the document referred to by Mr Chakalotos bears the date of 8 December. If we remember correctly, the votes at the National Representation for the election of the President of the Republic began on 17 December and ended on 29 December. Mr Venizelos' argument would have been based on whether the Eurogroup document had been adopted at least on 30 December, after the third vote. But what does that prove? It shows that the curse of the national economy over the days of the PASOK - New Democracy government, everyone saw it. And, of course, there was no need for some divine force by the Finance Ministers at the Eurogroup to understand the obvious. What's proving? First of all, the PASOK space doesn't say anything about mind. They continue to lie, continue to display documents that disprove their own claims. And most importantly of all, from the development of these opinions, everyone concludes that PASOK firmly insists on neoliberal proposals, which eventually led to the once-time party of change in co-government with New Democracy. The second interest Mr Venizelos said is that the government, on the basis of what you had to say on the subject of where he was going, forms a subject on which he will go to the elections, which is a subject of conflict with the institutions. And we ask for self-evident: Why conflict with institutions? Has the government conflicted with any of the constitutional powers described? The government has said and said so and this evening that after the new decision of the Council of State has been made public, it wants cooperation with everyone, but above all it raises a major issue of democracy and equality, namely the control of all for all. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, if they liberalise exceptions, as is stated in the previous decision by the Council of State and in the one adopted this evening, then a law which obliges a true declaration 'from the point of view' does not exist and let us finally understand it. Because if, ladies and gentlemen, you are required to make a statement and the law or judicial decisions say that "you have a duty to declare your statements to the banking institutions, but you do not have to declare the cash in the bank's deposit box", then you understand that the law is being condemned, that the law is being invalidated, something much more important, the public order for transparency and control is being cancelled! That's what's important, and let's all keep it! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So the government is coming back today and says: "Let's see who's gonna get tired. The Government which insists on transparency and control or all those who are drawn up behind opaque and non-control regimes.’; And they'll all answer to the people! Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 2018 budget vote is taking place at an extremely important and critical historical moment for the place. For 2018 is the year when our homeland, our people, the Greek people, come out of surveillance, comes out of the memorials. And the memorials have not fallen from heaven, ladies and gentlemen. The memorials came from the governments of PASOK and New Democracy, but it preceded a policy of thirty years of extremism, of forgery, of forgery, and especially of a system of inter-terrorism and inter-corrorism that reigned in the country. So, those who today denounce the government that it has not succeeded in returning the country in 2009 or 2008, should consider what they have done for thirty years, what agreements they signed, what memorandums they signed, how they chained the Greek people, not only with the memoranda, but mainly with their policies. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation has changed and changed since January 2015, the close January 2015, which now seems far away. For the political time and the achievements of this government are great and great. And I would like to say that even the battles lost by this government, especially in the first half of 2015, were battles fought with determination, which finally stopped the liberal catastrophe followed by the New Democracy and the PASOK, along with the most conservative liberal circles in Europe. These battles also led to the 'incomprehensible' closure of the third evaluation without any new financial measures. Who would believe this, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, when the New Democracy was calling for elections, why does the second assessment not close? Who would believe these things? I would therefore like to say that the achievements of the government, which do not make us celebrate, but are a sign of encouragement in this effort, are not one and two. We will not hear this from the press groups or from the channels of interactivity. The Greek people will hear it today from the National Representation, by the MPs who support the government. I would once again like to emphasise, ladies and gentlemen, that our Government received us at the end of January, early in 2015, a legislative framework of zero protection of first home, because the previous law had expired on 31-12-2014 and the previous government had not taken care to renew it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need five minutes. We received zero protection and legislated with the amendment of the Katseli Act, with the Stathakis Act, the absolute protection of the first place for borrowers up to a sum of EUR 280,000. The misinformation won't pass. And the ordinary Greek citizen needs to know that there is no risk of any people's residence for any borrower who has received a housing loan from banks. It was a government promise in 2015 that in difficult circumstances the Left Government unilaterally implemented and today continues to support this choice. Ladies and gentlemen, our interventions in the area of justice are continuous and move at two levels, horizontal in terms of upgrading the infrastructure and exploiting the human resources available in the area of justice and the use of modern technologies as well. Sittings with a large number of legislative interventions by the Government. With regard to staffing, I would like to tell you that in difficult budgetary conditions three IACC contests have been completed to cover empty organic posts in all the courts in the country where more than 85% of the empty organic posts have been filled. Where we found a state of humiliation, the government created the terms and conditions for the services to be served and a great human resource to be exploited. Also, in the human resources sector, the government for the second time legislates an increase in organic positions of judges and prosecutors in order to speed up the administration of justice. And in the area of new technologies, we continue the effort to electronically organise justice and I tell you with absolute certainty and a time horizon by October 2018, that we will have another justice in Greece. Here we go, and we'll see. Repeat: October 2018! It's a statement, a commitment before the National Representation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that in the infrastructure sector we have received a tragic situation with regard to building infrastructure. I am not going to refer to the first instances I have visited. I will only say that, in 2018, something that has been pending since 1981, the division of the Athens Court of First Instance into an additional two new prototypes in the Attica region. As far as the budget of the Ministry of Justice is concerned, I would like to tell you that it is also increased this year and that 608 508 000 euros are reached. And along with the use of the ESDP programmes and the structure for exploiting these programmes that we set up at the Ministry of Justice for the first time, the targeted funding of the necessary projects and infrastructures will continue and be effective, as always. Ladies and gentlemen, where are all these efforts? They're on the acceleration of the guys. So today, for the first time, before the House, I would like to present you with figures, figures, reality. For the whole of 2016, we had sixty thousand six hundred six hundred eight newly invented cases and decisions were made or we had abolished the trial in ninety-five thousand five hundred nine. That's in the administrative appeals and in the first instances. Ladies and gentlemen, on 31-12-2014, we received three hundred and fifty thousand outstanding cases in the administrative courts, and today the number has been limited to two hundred seventy-seven thousand eighty-two. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We have a spectacular improvement, which in 2017 will exceed the hundred thousand cases that will have been cleared. It is an achievement of this government. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to close the pending cases, but we will find ourselves positive if we drastically limit their number. And you see from what I bring you today that this objective is achieved. A similar picture is in the civil courts. For the first half of 2017, the closing ratio of the cases, i.e. the proportion of incoming cases, is 131%. Therefore, for each incoming case, 1.31. That's it for the civil courts. In the first instance, the marker is 117%, and in the peace courts it is even higher than 135%. That's the picture today. It is a picture of improving the conditions for justice, speeding up decision-making time. We firmly believe that by continuing this policy, which is moving not only in logistics, but also in institutional interventions, as I have stressed in my speech, justice can be more optimistic in the future. Eventually, the Greek citizen will again find the refuge that was deprived of by the memorial and quasi-negative policies established by the previous governments, with the abandonment of justice for more than twenty or even thirty years. This is the government's offer in the field of justice, and this work will continue until the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u387	In turn, Mrs. Jackri, Mr. Javaras, Mr. Michaelides and the Minister, Mr. Stathakis will take the floor. Please, Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for six minutes. But let's keep the time to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u388	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget - as it is heard in the last few days - is the last Memorandum of Understanding and marks the entry of our country into a new period of uncertainties and long economic stability. In addition, as provided for in the medium-term framework of the budgetary strategy, the necessary financial space has been ensured in the coming years to implement a realistic programme of sustainable and sustainable economic reconstruction while extending the social protection of the weaker economic strata. This includes the social dividend of EUR 727 million already distributed by our government. The social dividend relates to the 1/3 of the Greek people with an average aid of more than 500 euros and results from the revenues of EFKA and the lower primary surpluses that this government has negotiated and achieved. Here also comes the youth solidarity allowance to be granted to fifty-five thousand young people from eighteen to twenty-four years old, as is the budget allocation of EUR 700 million for the minimum guaranteed income with a view to strengthening financial poverty and reducing child poverty. And while the growth rate for this year has been revised from 1.8% to 1.6%, for 2018 there is a growth rate of 2.5% and a primary surplus of 3.82% to achieve a primary surplus of at least EUR 600 million for dividends. But the figure for 2018 is another, and it will be largely due to the revenues of the EFCA for a further year, with the projections showing a surplus in the social budget of EUR 859 million. In fact, if these forecasts are confirmed, the agreed target for a primary surplus of 3.5% is reached without the need for forward-looking measures from 2018 onwards - such as the reduction of duty-free - as anti-population risks and sparsees. In the objections of the Objection, it should be noted that the payment of pensions does not go any further in order to show a primary surplus, that the 2018 budget has provided for the complete liquidation of all outstanding pensions and for the parallel achievement of the primary surplus target. In the new budget therefore, macroeconomic indicators are recovering, unemployment is heading down, forecasts for growth in productive investment and exports are positive, production factors are accessible and the country becomes an attractive investment destination for attracting foreign direct investment. For the first time, there are therefore favourable conditions for the three main pillars of the economy contributing to an increase in wealth in a country, namely investment, exports and, in any case, consumption. The comparative advantages of the economy, including tourism and the smart economy, contribute to its dynamic restructuring and ensure sustainability in growth rates. Of course, the improvement of macroeconomic sizes will take some time to pass into the real economy. Our aim is for the country's development to be translated into new jobs, and even decent jobs and stable jobs, to have a social impact. However, after leaving the memorandum, we can accelerate the growth rate, productive investment in order to make use of our country's productive potential and to multiply the positive effects to date on new jobs. And we will do that in good cooperation with society. We will make use of its own programmes, its own needs as they are recorded at the development conferences that are currently taking place throughout the country. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the objectives for the basic budget figures are in line with this medium-term budgetary strategy programme and their achievement leads to the completion of the aid programme and the exit from the memorandums. The way out of the Memorandum policy is, of course, a combination of a number of conditions which we seek to have a positive outcome. First of all, the third and fourth evaluations must be closed in good time. The medium to long-term debt relief measures should then be identified, the debate on which will begin before the completion of the programme in accordance with the Dombrovski Declarations in Paris last week on the margins of the climate conference. Of course, much of this debate will involve linking debt relief to growth, the so-called growth clause, so that if we have a low growth rate, we have more debt measures, and if we have a high growth rate, vice versa. This is how we make our partners in our efforts to achieve a strong growth rate in the economy. These elements give market certainty that Greek debt is going to a viability path, so Greek bond prices are deviating, so the way out is gradually opening up to the markets and the end of the memoranda. We must, of course, also successfully continue the testing outlets on the loan markets. With these conditions, which will take place in 2018, the exit from the Memorandum is certain next August. Our government will seek a clean exit without a memorandum in mutual cooperation and consultation with our lenders. Of course, until then there is a long way to go. The prerequisites, which are many and difficult, must be realised so that there is no loose end to the programme in good time. Ladies and gentlemen, after eight years of monuments at last there is light at the end of the tunnel for Greece. The sacrifices of the Greeks over the years of the crisis are taking place, optimism returns, our country is released from its troika policy and regains control of its fate. However, escaping from the protection of the creditors of the ESM and the IMF, the country will be exposed to lending on the international capital and money markets and, indeed, with yields not forbidding, which will then be continuously improved as the debt ratio to GDP improves, as long as there is real GDP growth and therefore real growth. The risk will also gradually be reduced, the spreads of Greek bonds will be deviated from the Germans and the confidence factor will be strengthened, which is an important factor in performance. Furthermore, this confidence will bring back other deposits to the banks and will encourage businesses to make use of their liquidity available to investments. Of course, the next day of the memorandum should continue and expand with persistence and commitment the reform project launched in public administration, the regulator role of the state, the improvement of the business environment and the promotion of direct public and private investments that have a benchmark for the new development model and the strengthening of the extroverted orientation of the national economy. All this in order to have a happy outcome, of course, I believe that there should be prior consultation of all the political forces in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the 2018 budget concludes the third Memorandum and conditions are created for our country to recover its lost independence in deciding and entering under the guiding of our Government on the path of stable and fair growth. In no case does this mean that after the summer of 2018 we will all eat gold spoons, nor does it mean that we will come back to the situation before 2010. Our country must in no way spread into a new state of budgetary crisis. It means, however, that our Government will have more budgetary power to deal with imbalances in the economy with social significance and to formulate a more independent economic policy to reduce the consequences of the crisis and improve the social state. It means that Greece will enter a new productive model free of the sins of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have to admit that, for the first time after eight years, we have experienced an environment of political and economic stability with correction of macroeconomic indicators, positive forecasts by the Commission for next year, protection and enhancement of the incomes of vulnerable social groups, conditions encouraging new investment and markets. Our aim must be to transform the account of the next day of the memorials into a reality that is defined by the positive sign of a fair first-time development whose product will be enjoyed by all Greek citizens, and not only by privileged minorities, as has been done so far. That is the objective of the Greek Government, and that is what we will do, even if we move from several contributors and difficulties. We won't stop anywhere until we reach our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-seven students and students and three educational attendances from the 1st grade of Corfu. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Javarras has the floor from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u390	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after much time following the speakers who have produced the Stepma, I am able to understand why the chosen colleague, Professor Costas Dousinas, has today chosen an original way of approaching the issues of the budget that the National Representation is talking about today through the parties. Of course, that way is impressive, because he chose Freud's dream performance to capture what's happening here today. And it could not be any different, because by following the majority Members together with the ministers, I can see - and I am truly surprised - that they refer to a terrible reality in terms of dreams. And through these kinds of dreams, the Greek people are trying to understand whether he also lives a dream, which has not come to understand if it is due to a nightmare that the government is preparing to him or a bad trial that he has built today, which is called "the first time left" in power. He could not remain without a comment on the way in which the Minister of Finance addressed to the former President of PASOK and Vice-President of the previous government, when in fact he was in a way that had a predicament and an impunity, I would say, asked him 'how could you have done it all right and been politically successful?' But, in the same way, Minister, who, without you having done anything the place needs to get out of the crisis, feels politically successful. We could not give another explanation of this kind of indictment and arrogance for a politician who is trying and struggling, as he admits and supports, to give a solution to the problems, not to honour at least the signatures made by the government in February 2015, when, with the first paragraph of the statement he made at the time - in his position, Mr Varoufakis - he acknowledges that the previous government made very important and substantial efforts to get the place out of the evil test. And the very same statement you made to the partners in Europe and the Fund, when, on 13 July - or 15 July 2015 - you yourself with the back wall, or - I don't know how, in any case - you blackmailed, as you say, were forced to acknowledge that the previous ones did well. So why, at least today, you do not take responsibility, which arises from these statements you make and do not try in a spirit of understanding with the other groups, to give the Greek people the impression that here in this Chamber which is ministering and serving the people's sovereignty, there is an attempt to understand each other's positions. But you speak with one reason that returns to yourself, a reason why he has you and those who belong to the same party. Can this be called democratic dialogue? Above all, he said earlier, because I was really impressed by Mr. Doussinas, that he has a great deal of value in this dream that Freud mentioned in his particular work on the embarrassment of the naked or naked in his sleep. I'd tell you to see another case, the dream of the burning child, who after he's dead, gets his father's hand and urgently says to him: "Father, don't you see me? I'm burning!' Take note, therefore, because sometimes these laurels, on which you think you are resting today, may prove to be the coming political change ashes and then understand how enigmaticly undetermined this phrase is when it comes to the glory made by the ashes. These have within them the inability to pass what has been done as a work of government in history, and at the same time they stress the risk of accountability, which no one knows where it can end up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. I see you've been accurate in time. I don't know if you'd counted him. Mr Michaelides will be followed by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and then Minister Stathakis will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, may I make an intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u393	What do you want, Mr. Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u394	I want to give Mr. Javarra an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u395	No provision is made, Minister, but here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, I always follow Mr Javarra's speech very carefully. But he spoke six minutes, and I honestly didn't understand what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u397	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u398	I have two things to say to him because he talked about dreams. First, consider a mandarin that says: "In the response of the mind with the crowns of the dream, the poor and your body are perishing."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u399	And no worse!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u400	Secondly, let me say something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u401	After a year, come and tell me that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u402	Your speech reminded me of another scorning mandarin, which says: "From your door I pass and saw you flourished and I immediately realized you frying fish."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u403	After a year, come and tell me that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u404	Five minutes you spoke and I didn't understand what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u405	Minister, I think we don't have to go on with this anymore. Here, Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u406	To speak, ladies and gentlemen, for a little more pedestrian and more landed things, I would like to comment on these unprecedented views that have already been heard, namely that the expression of opinion and opinion on the decisions of justice is a problem for democracy. I think that the problem with democracy is the fact that the principle of equality for all citizens is being violated. Also, let me comment on the opinion expressed and which is repeated here many times, namely that it poses a problem of democracy, the fact that we remain compelled to do so in order to maintain our positions. I would like to say that the problem with democracy creates this view, namely that a democratically elected government is in the rule of the country for the parliamentary term, for which the Greek people have been ordered. Ladies and gentlemen, it is self-evident and the criticality of the 2018 budget has been highlighted by many colleagues. Of course, this limiting nature of the budget is not self-evident, but directly intertwined with the major problems of next year, the debate about exiting the programme, the debate on debt settlement and, of course, the beginning of the memorandum period. Successful implementation of the budget forecasts is therefore a necessary condition for these developments. We believe, not vaguely, but on the basis of our performances over the last two years that this implementation will be a success. This, obviously, does not mean that we deny that this budget is a budget of austerity, which of course cannot be included in an important part of the programme of our ideas and objectives. The Qualified Opposition considers that it can politically exploit this assumption. For us, however, there is a need for openness to all citizens and openness to the layers that have been entrusted to us. This assumption, at the same time, does not mean that we are not making a conscious effort in the last two years to alleviate the impact of the programme, aiming at those more vulnerable groups, but also to lay the foundations for more permanent changes towards the elimination of inequalities. The 2018 budget contains, of course, such elements, some of which I shall refer to immediately. As far as the health budget is concerned, expenditure is essentially stable. What exists, however, is a reorder on the origins of the revenues. So it is clear that we increased public spending from 4.6% of GDP, which was in 2014, to 5.1%. Obviously, we are not satisfied with this figure, but we have managed to stabilise the public health system, give it a breath, but also take targeted actions, such as the allowance to barren agricultural doctors, the staffing of island doctors with armed doctors and other measures. With regard to the expenditure relating to the Ministry of Labour and in particular to the welfare sector, in addition to keeping us in the regular budget at the increased levels of 2017-1,500,000; an extremely important social package of 315,000, which concerns family allowances, school meals and, of course, the extension of the coverage of nurseries. I should stress that, including this package, the welfare budget has more than doubled over the last two years from 790,000,000 to 1,800,000, 000 in 2018. Is this a negligible size for New Democracy and for all those who are being prosecuted and criticised? At the same time, the Social Solidarity Fund budget, which we have achieved since 2017, is maintained at the same time. As far as the budget is concerned, I would just like to point out the second continuous year increase in government spending on education by 3.6%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to individual policies relating to the islands, I would first like to point out the continuation of the special North and South Aegean development programmes at EUR 500,000, 000, to which we have already incorporated the first projects. Based on the relatively small 5.3% or 170,000, but a critical increase in the CFPs, there can be a resumption of the specific financial support in eighty-five small islands and mountainous municipalities with 20,000,000 euros to meet operational needs. I would add that, next year, we need to step up the preparation and implementation of policies to strengthen the principle of islandity. Allow me here to make a more extensive reference to the need for the real implementation of the transport equivalent and to stress that, for regions in Europe, such as the islands of Corsica, Portugal and France, they are also subsidised by Community programmes, so as to close the loop for the transport equivalent, i.e. transport of goods and people to the islands corresponding to the transport costs in the terrestrial area. Such policies have a clear orientation in favour of workers and the populace and have a clear political burden. Such policies, ladies and gentlemen, which even describe within the budgetary constraints that we are living for, the way we as SYRIZA envision and, at the same time, launch memorial Greece. Because we believe - and it is clear - that the main stake in this period, which, among other things, explains the importance of the budget we are voting on today, is the formation of the conditions of exit from the suffocating monitoring of the memoranda and the tracking of the way we are going to go for the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr. Michilidis. Mr Stathakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor. There are six speakers and three ministers left. So two speakers and one Minister will speak in between so that we can finish the meeting. We count until 23.00 p.m. to have completed - and with tolerance of time - the meeting. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr President. The criticism of my New Democracy has created a peculiar sense. On the one hand, there is the criticism that the country is being tested, that institutions, such as democracy, are approaching, moving away from European data. On the other hand, the New Democracy has become a party to change. She now promises to come and change everything. So I feel the dual need to table some of the changes that the present government is making, because when the New Democracy comes, it must at least have recorded how far the country has changed in this period, so that it can facilitate the way change, as it will pursue them. And because I don't like to talk in general, but I like to talk in particular, I challenge the New Democracy to tell us which of the changes I'm going to mention will get back. And I'm starting not from energy, but landscaping. In planning - which you probably know of the situation of the last forty years - we have made eight changes last year - a year and a half. First, we have posted the forest maps with a view to immediate ratification. We received forests validated in 1% of the Greek territory. We rectify forest maps, we validate them - despite the screams that the universe will dissolve, the government will fall, farmers will rise - and we hope that by 2019 we will have covered 70% of the country's forests. Second reform: By the end of 2018 we will have delimited the Greek beaches. We will get away from this amazing phenomenon of trying as Minister of Spatial Planning to find out what the demarcation in Mykonos is and find three lines. Not a single two, but three lines. We define the beaches, then. We do these two things for a single reason. Because we want the country to have a real estate register. For the past 15 years, we have known them. We are therefore bringing to the House - and Mr Kontonis has been consulted - a single property register. For the first time in Greece, we unify the real estate register and the mortgages in a bill - cut-off, which creates a single body - a legal entity governed by public law, which together with the thirty-two studies that we have published, the twenty-eight of which have been signed, Greece aims to acquire a full property register for 78% of the Greek territory in 2020. And if the land register creates a legal certainty, along with forests, beaches and many others, the problems remain. So we did two more big areas: Firstly, we voted for the bill on the country's urban planning and said that from now on the municipalities - which cover 100% of the territory - are called in the next few years - very soon we will also find funding - to draw up local spatial plans that now cover the whole of the territory, because the municipalities are now both urban and rural together. In addition, in order to facilitate their work it is completed and passes through the CoR the Presidential Decree on Land Uses, which lays down the rules on how to draw up such plans. The third big intervention we made is that we changed the way in which a building is licensed and controlled in Greece. We voted together with the arbitrary law, which extended for thirty years with social criteria now the use of arbitrary ones. We voted on the bill on how these are now authorised. It is licensed by town, it is no longer controlled by town planning. It is checked during the construction phase by private engineers with responsibility, those who make the building and by private engineers of the structured environment who control whether the building is made in accordance with its license. We are transferring control to another authority, to the region, to the observatory, which acquires responsibility and control and demolition and draconian fines, trying to cure the problem of arbitrary ones. As if these six changes were not enough last year, we are finally bringing maritime planning with a delay and the threat of fines by the European Union. Maritime planning regulates and regulates, such as land planning, the rules on the marine environment and the rules governing activities at sea. Eight reforms I numbered. I would be delighted to see which of them you will escape in the future from the Latin American environment that we are building and reintroducing the European that we inherited from you some time ago. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As if not all of this were enough, because we are also against investments, as we know, and Chaakalots presses the buttons on Wall Street and at the same time I do not know in what he does - boils, I suppose - we have approved six presidential decrees on investment projects, unfortunately only tourists, from strategic investments in Crete and Fokida - most of them were in drawers for several years - with the changes we had to make and we have approved them as presidential decrees. At the same time, we have moved on from building cooperatives to four important regions, and that is how they go. In conclusion, I also have the Presidential Decree on the Greek with the latest "spirits" in the Ministry to be published. You've spilled a lot of crocodile tears around it. This was done in some way completely legitimate, as far as I know. He went through C.E., came by and passed, and there he passed through, through all the institutions, as the law provides, all the procedures were done, and he successfully ends up. And one last thing: We have made a record of granting public spaces to municipalities, a record of concessions throughout Greece for public spaces to the municipalities. Second question: What will you withdraw and what is the big policy with which you are going to go? These given, I can get to my most favourite subject, the energy. Energy faces a great transformation. We all know him. Our country voted in Paris, supported in 2030, the most ambitious objectives for Europe. We want these objectives to be binding, and that implies two things: Firstly, that we are going to an energy mix with an RES 50% or around 50% natural gas and maintaining lignite with new plants where the environmental footprint is smaller, so compatible with the 2030 environmental objectives. Secondly, strong energy savings of 1.5% a year, which means huge investment in buildings, transport and a very difficult objective, which are the commitments we have as a country and are ready to serve. What do we do to achieve these goals? Three things. Firstly, we are promoting the RES. The RES, as you know, have closed a circle. The windmills issued the latest licences with guaranteed prices and for the PVs the range of guaranteed prices has been closed. Therefore, from this point on, we will have to enter into competitive procedures, looking for the RES to obtain prices very close to - and it is done - in natural gas or other forms, so that they can also be economically promoted. At the same time, we submitted to Parliament a bill that is currently being discussed for energy communities. It is a bill, which will allow consumers of all kinds and types - private, farmers, municipalities, hotels, crafts etc. - to produce their own energy, the one they need to consume, thus opening up the social economy and the possibility of producing energy, which will give an enormous boost to the RES on the basis of these objectives. The second thing we do is that we create a more competitive environment. We open the energy markets at all levels. The energy stock exchange will be voted on in January. The gas market is opened from 1-1-2018. At the same time, we are promoting changes that will form a framework that, together with the opening up of markets, will allow the energy communities a very strong local and decentralised production. The third and last thing we are doing in all this is that we give strong social policy rules to the energy sector. Let me remind you that, first of all, we are changing the NGO and how they are calculated so that we do not have the sharp increases in households from one point of consumption upwards. Secondly, we are changing the social tariff and we are targeting it, with 70% cuts, for the poorest households. And thirdly, for the very vulnerable households who have lost and the social invoice we set up a fund, to which they will apply, in order to obtain the aid to reconnect to the social invoice. In addition to this, energy communities are a tool to enable municipalities to connect the clocks of vulnerable households and to produce energy from the municipality, netting out with vulnerable households. I'm going back to the question. Which of these changes do you think we should change to create a climate of change within change? However, the way things were, you'll never find it again. That's for sure! I'm closing up with two more points. One thing has to do with the mines. We have brought for the first time since the 1970s a new quarry law, which is very modern and capable, which meets the specificities of our mining activity, together with significant changes in the Mining Code. It was a demand for a very long period of time, which would form a very different, stable and environmentally much more balanced framework for the operation of the mining process. Secondly, in the issue of 'EL DORADO GOLD', which was also a peak point, things have finally gone to arbitration, precisely with the questions that were raised in our debates, namely whether the two main objectives that we set on the part of the public can be fulfilled, namely, firstly, whether it is technically possible to resolve full verticalisation and, secondly, whether it is environmentally safe. In conclusion, I will raise a final point, which is the scope of the New Democracy's action. The budget, apparently, will not collapse. The economy, too, may not grow as it would grow if New Democracy had been left for another twenty years, but it does something too. So neither the economy nor the budget are at risk. However, based on the criticism of the New Democracy, PPC is in danger of collapse. And there, let me stand by for a second, because we have to respond to this criticism of the collapse of PPC. PPC received the following amounts this year. He got all NGOs for the period 2012-2015. Remind me who ruled at the time and didn't pay the NGO? Some people ruled then! So we paid all YOKOs from the social surplus, otherwise we would have to make increases in PPC tariffs. So it's a net social dividend and it's 350 million. Secondly, he took 340 more from the sale of IPTO, 670. He took 430 more from the State, from the repayment of public debts and from the advances for the contract signed by Mr. Juliarakis with PPC. It's 1.2 billion. You think it's going to collapse financially? It's hard for me! So PPC will not collapse financially for at least the next few years if it is judged by someone who knows and is familiar with PPC's financial needs, debts, loans and when they expire. So, in the financial part, I think we should probably withdraw the idea of an immediate collapse. I first heard her in June. In June it didn't collapse. September, which was sure to collapse, followed, didn't collapse again. It was up to the banks to lift their trust, and they didn't. We reached the magic December that this year's balance sheet is EUR 1.2 billion influx of money into PPC from all these sources. Let's go to PPC's second theme. Since it did not collapse financially, it is at risk of the agreement we made with DIGICOM - and not with the institutions - on the issue of the sale of lignite units. I would remind you again, for the time being, that we inherited a situation in which the country was moving for years - before we govern the country - to the European Courts on the issue of PPC's monopoly on lignite. Unfortunately or happily, definitively and irrevocably, after seven years, the European Court of Justice has ruled that the monopoly that PPC has on its access to lignite for energy production should be lifted. Bearing in mind that, just now, when we came to things, we had canceled the agreement made by the previous government at "little PPC". Let me remind you what the "small PPC" agreement said, that we were selling horizontally 22% to 25% of lignite, hydroelectric and natural gas, the three energy-generating sources. I am critical of the New Democracy that we have an agreement to reduce the retail share, that is also a reduction through NOMEs in the retail share, so 22% to 25% of production and at the same time NOME to reduce its retail share. That was the 'little PPC' that we abolished. On the basis of the decision of the European Court of Justice and after a debate with the institutions, we reached the agreement that: Firstly, we are not discussing the hydroelectric or other activities of PPC, and we have an agreement which says that we will implement the lignite decision, in the negotiations with DIGICOM and we have come to an agreement. This is 9% of PPC's production potential, which is about 40% of its lignite production, representing 9.1% of PPC's production potential. At the same time, we have decided that the NOMEs that we used as a tool and we use as a tool to reduce PPC's retail share, will be reduced in proportion to the sale of the units when this is completed. We therefore have a balanced agreement - very different from the one we have inherited and well canceled - which we take a step forward and asserts the argument we say from the outset, that through all these changes in the energy sector, PPC will remain the pillar of our energy system. Today it produces 50% and has 80% of the market. Through all these changes it will remain the main pillar, it will continue to produce close to 50%, it will develop the RES as well, it will do other activities and we will have an energy system that is stable, liberated, with other natural players on the market, but at the same time stable, confident and address the challenges of transition in a specific and structured way. And against these changes, I would really like to see what you get back to remind us that there is another Europe that we have not discovered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u410	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Janakopoulos a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u411	There is no provision in the procedure for asking Mr Janakopoulos a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u412	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u413	I'm sorry, Mr. Loverdo, just a minute to talk. Mr. Janakopoulos will be here tomorrow. You have a dentist too, you can ask him tomorrow so that we don't delay the process right now. It is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u414	My question, Mr President, is direct.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u415	It's all direct, Mr. Loverdo. But I will not give the floor to the Minister to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u416	I could tell you that I am asking the floor to react to what has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u417	Yes, you can, I'm just not going to give the floor for the Minister to answer you right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u418	Until tomorrow, the government must have resolved a problem that has arisen. I don't do it accidentally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u419	Here, Mr. Loverdo, ask your question, the Minister will just answer tomorrow. I won't give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u420	Let's get back to it whenever he wants. I want to have said it this evening. Minister, you who, along with the other members of the government, are friends of the people, tell me about the issue of 9.84. As far as employees' pay is concerned, we read and are informed by them that the frozen accounts include the one on their payroll. And Christmas is coming. Do you intend to do something by tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u421	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u422	Do you want to answer now, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u424	Did you see, Mr President, where is that not what you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u425	It's not provided for by the procedure, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u426	I could take advantage of the process, but I didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u427	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u428	I do not understand the importance of this intervention. It seems a little strange to me, and it seems to me a little bit influenced by the purposes you want to set up to use Parliament for purposes which I think are not provided for in the budget procedure. I really don't understand it. From there on...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u429	Do you have anything to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u430	Leave it, Mr. Loverdo. And the irony as to who's a friend of the people and who's not a friend of the people, you can keep them for your line or for yourself. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u431	And for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u432	And so your ironies are back. From there on, with regard to 9.84, to the extent that I can be aware of it is a matter of the independent public revenue authority. The government will do everything it can to ensure the interests of the workers. Be well. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Minister. Mr Mumulides has the floor. Here, Mr President, and apologies for the delay, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, let me only quote a title in the section of the Minister for Energy concerning PPC: 'Realism and not magic'. This is what George Stathakis told us and it is good to keep it for the following developments. The debate on another budget for the state is slowly completed. As you know, budgets, apart from codes and numbers, should also reflect the sum of a government's political choices - proposals. Obviously this is only partly the case in the budget to be voted, as we all know that our country is in a committee situation, a result of political choices made by previous governments, and this should not be excluded from the foreground of the debate, because it is obviously wrong for the current government. We have heard from this step to repeat by almost all the speakers of the Officerial Representation that the current government is responsible for the current state of affairs. Unfortunately, it is now common knowledge that there is no history or past in the political life of the place for some people in this place. There are places in this public debate that go beyond the area of political controversy, as they not only underestimate but insult the intelligence of Greek society. We see why we are inexperienced as parliamentarians and government, the way in which people exploit this. I admire Mr. Loverdos - I have to say it publicly - for his communication style. It's worth admiring and worthy of study. Today we are discussing the budget for next year, a year that Greece will meet irreversibly with the prospect of a better future, systematically improving its position on the international map. The question is whether we will defend this whole prospect. Because it is incomprehensible to continue the effort to degrade the hope itself rather than the government. After all, New Democracy and PASOK have had the opportunity, for some forty years, to change the country's perspective and unfortunately led the country to its present situation. Let's not minimize the facts. Gentlemen of counterpopulation, whether you like it or not, 2018 is the year of exit of the country from the strict comitology and the memoranda. The Greek people have paid and continue to pay the abrupt of the choices of a system that, instead of seeking the cleansing and renewal of the system today, attempts at the altar of its return to crush any prospect with the polite sponsorship of certain systemic media, which in turn hope in their return, in the good times of the aeronautical, interactivity and co-management. After the script of the government parentheses, after the election scenario, which for about three years pollutes public life, as it has been obsessed, we heard the Chief of Police Vice-President proclaim to every ton that 2018 will be a year of cleansing, as it provides for elections to be held again this year. And it's true that it's very original, modern, and above all political, the analysis made by the Chief of Officership. It is an obsession that, in my opinion, is identified with political amoracism. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, ask yourself whether this is how you want to be remembered in the future, that is, with this arrogant behaviour of a spoiled child whose people democratically deprived their game? The rule of the country will be decided in two years by the Greek people, having meanwhile learned all the truth about your works and your state. At a time when all the international economic and political actors confess that Greece returns to normality in an optimistic landscape, you almost begg and attempt it in every way to silence this development, because you know well that the exit from the committee will end a time for the political system that you have been building for more than forty years. I want it to be heard in this Chamber - in which I hope we all agree that there are people who are in a state of economic despair, in a state of social impoverishment, and it is our duty to defend them - this last Wednesday we followed with surprise and embarrassment - I personally - the announcement of the Greek Industrial Association, which is neither too much nor too much for the Government to provide the social dividend. I don't get any impressions. It is perfectly natural that an industrialist ignores, not knowing what is poverty, what is intolerable, what is unemployment, what is hunger. But this reminds me of that poem of Breech, where the great merchant wonders: “What is man really?” To answer to himself: "How to know what man he is. I don't know what man he is, I know the honor of only." At the same time we are seeing the Civic Opposition which last year voted against the dividend, to vote for it this year. But we see that she discovers other landscaping meetings with her good self. We see, then, that the EUR 400 announced by the Minister for Labour will give young unemployed, eighteen to twenty-four years old, is now known as a "little". Of course, I can understand why, for an old-fashioned representative, 400 euros are tips. For some, yes, 400 euros is a tip. I would like to mention briefly a chapter which is an untapped, but also a comparative advantage for the country, and I am referring to Greek culture. The Greek culture is the great wronged, not the memorials, not of the crisis, but the timeless unjusted giant, I would say. In Greek culture we must give the opportunity to play the role he deserves and is entitled to the global map. I think it is time that we can show culture to an advantage and to a modern development tool that no matter how many people can understand, it can contribute to the creation of important jobs, to the upgrading of quality of life and to the improvement of everyday life. In conclusion, I hope that the new year will find the Greek people more optimistic, united in common struggles and common goals and particularly informed of the unspeakable truths. It is our duty to respond to the challenges of the times. It is a duty for all of us to defend the future of our own country and not our personal political future, which does not concern anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u435	Thank you, Mr. Mumulides. Mr Katsaniotis has the floor from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. The Minister will then speak, and two speakers will follow, Mr. Psychogios and Mr. Salmas, Minister Vitsas, Mr. Barkas and Mr. Koutsoubas and will conclude the meeting. Here, Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have asked several times what we will change as a new Republic. So, confirm what is consciousness to the Greek people, what is recorded in demographic terms, that it will not be you and soon it will be us. When we're gonna be, you'll see what we'll change. The good news is that your conscience has also been made to you! I would also like to take the occasion of a documentary from French production which was a few days ago playing on TV, the 'Network of dates', the 'Internet of hate', to say two things that I have left of this documentary, that the public exercise of verbal violence on the Internet encourages friends who have the fondist to go on with their respective actions. In other words, when we see one of our friends insulting or swearing someone on social media, it is easy to get us into a similar behavior. It is a form of distorted socialism, quite attractive to anyone who has not had a strong spiritual, moral or social arrangement, for whoever has been a victim of such practices many times in the past. Why am I saying this? I am saying this on the occasion of the negative comments we have all seen in the news of the death of a young man. They were at best netting, in the worst purely hybrid. In the shock caused by the tragic loss of a 40-year-old father who baptised his child last day, another shock was added, fanaticism on the internet, at best netting, to the worst purely hybridism. At some point in the recent past, I had to defend a post of an old colleague and MP of another party when he gathered the anger of the Greek "Trolocosm".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u437	Who was that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u438	You'll understand. Most of the people who swore him did so because he expressed his opinion, which was contrary ideologically to theirs. Most of them didn't even read what he wrote. Most of them, too, didn't even know who he was, but that didn't stop them from making personal attacks on him. I am saying this because I think we should resist this practice. And we must resist, above all, our evil self. Unfortunately, the phenomenon is not limited to social networks. Unfortunately, there are politicians who invest in hatred, they foam it, they reap it and make it a tool to exterminate their political opponents. We must resist them, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u439	That's where you look, Mr. Katsaniotis. To Mr. Georgiades, tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u440	I know where I need to look. The 2018 budget is just the continuation of last year. He's a realist and anti-developer, a footprint of the same unsuccessful policy. Its aim is to prosper the numbers, but it is based on people's misery. Each budget must respond to three demands: revenue, expenditure and development objectives. This budget answers two of the three questions and the answers it gives are equivalent to new problems for citizens. In particular, revenue is collected in the traditional way of SYRIZA - ANEL, that is, from the continuation and expansion of tax policy and the further reduction of incomes. The costs of the central State shall not be reduced. On the contrary, they're probably expanding. The only costs that continue to be reduced are costs that are again related to the quality of life of citizens, such as health costs. Finally, the budget has no development plan and objective. And we mean real growth, not overcrowding. In a country where the budget does not provide for an increase in income and a stimulation of consumption on the one hand, but also for a serious increase in investment and an increase in State revenues from productive surpluses of private individuals on the other hand, it is clear that there is no prospect of substantial growth, namely development that will go to society. 2018 will be another year of creative accounting and over-performance of budgetary targets through the even greater attack on citizens' incomes. Therefore, it will be another year of recession for society and the enlargement of the humanitarian crisis, which are not only experiencing the lowest strata in society, but also the middle ones. The government nowadays shares dividends, allowances and lucky tax payers. The breaths, however, are small and short, short-sighted as its policy. Our difference with the SYRIZA - ANEL government is that we want this money to enter the pockets of the Greeks every month and not once a year. And we want to get into the pockets of all the Greeks and not just a portion. Our difference is that SYRIZA impoverishes the Greeks. We want them financially independent, not as an allowance, but as a normal salary. We support common sense, European acquis and real society. Greeks are not a people of begging for government pity, but a people who know how to advance, create and produce wealth. In your panic for your upcoming political defeat, you are confusing the social dividend with social impulse. But you underestimate the Greek people when you think they do not understand what you are seeking. In 2015 you sent the Greeks to wait in queues to get 60 euros from ATMs in 2017 to wait in queues for a transport card. It seems now, with the new budget, you are planning a new line for the Greek people, the one with the benefits. This is your vision: a life with the card, a life like the one our grandparents and residents of the countries in which your political delusion prevailed. I am voting against the budget because the Greeks deserve better than being on the line of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, Mr. Katsaniotis. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, has the floor for 15 minutes. Next is Mr. Psychogios, Mr. Salmas, and then the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Vitsats. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u442	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tabling of the budget is a good opportunity for the financial year to come to an end in a few days' time. It is a good opportunity to assess the main macroeconomic events that have taken place since the 2017 budget was deposited, until today, in order to draw lessons, to make corrective steps as necessary, to recognise progress and, of course, to assess the contribution of the 2017 budget to the Greek economy, so as to understand the draft budget that we are now debating even better. I will make a very brief statement of this kind and refer to a small number of critical figures and events 2017. First of all, I would remind you that the country's national income was increased to EUR 4.4 billion at current prices, from EUR 174.2 billion at the end of 2016 to EUR 178.6 billion at the end of 2017 or at a growth rate of 2.5%. We would undoubtedly like the growth rate to be even higher. But there is no doubt that this is the first time that, since the beginning of the multiannual crisis, in the second quarter of 2008, the economy is growing and there is no doubt that it is a very strong sign of exit from the crisis. Secondly, given that this is the case. In the ninth month of 2017, January - November - we have no data for December - the private sector sector's hiring balance was positive, leading to a further decline in unemployment by 3%, from 23.5% to 20.5%. Unemployment remains high and many of the new jobs created are parttime and underpaid. It's something that's troubling us. It is something on which we need to work further to improve the framework for job creation incentives in areas with high productivity. However, it is still very important, positive, new, that for the first time since 2001, the creation of clean, new jobs has exceeded 130,000. I refer to the elements of the 'ERGAN'. Thirdly, two very difficult evaluations of the adjustment programme have been successfully completed and a number of critical reforms are now being implemented both in the microeconomic environment and in the banks and in the public administration, which are strengthening the economy and removing time distortions. Fourthly, the successful implementation of the 2016 budget and the significant overrun of the target of 0.5% primary surplus - and I would remind you here that the government has not sought to overcome the result, but to overcome the result is an indication that the main parameters of the economy, the state's ability to collect taxes, as well as the compliance of the citizens, are now different from the past - has led for the first time since the transformation, in fact since 1973, to a surplus of 0.7% general government and faster exit, one year earlier, from the excessive deficit procedure in which the country entered - I recall - in December 2009. This is a fact that validates the country's entry into the club of eurozone member countries that public finances are healthy. Fifth given given that the country's credit rating capacity was upgraded by all three rating houses, thus leading the country to a successful exit to the markets in July 2017 by lending new money of 3 billion, thus creating the conditions for a sustainable end to the country's exclusion from international markets, and in second year, in November 2017, by exchanging PSI bonds. In this respect, the Commission notes that, in the absence of State aid, the Commission has not shown any evidence of State aid in the absence of State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (now Article 107(1) TFEU) and Article 107(3)(c) TFEU. The net deposit flows from the end of 2016 to October 2017 were positive and of the amount of EUR 6 billion. In the last quarter of the year these have been considerably accelerated. Eighth preamble: The relaxation of capital controls has accelerated. The roadmap for removing capital restrictions brings us much closer to the definitive abolition of these restrictions. And finally, the ninth given and perhaps the most well-known of all - it is the issue of the last two weeks - is the significant divergence in the borrowing rates of Greek democracy with a reduction - I recall that on 31 December 2016 it was 7.17% and I am referring to the cost of borrowing the ten-year bond - 330 basis points. Today, in other words, they are at 3.87%. Today’s 3.87% is below the average of the period of prosperity of Greek democracy 2000-2008 and corresponding to the interest rates of the best days of 2004 and 2005. Challenges and risks remain. And, obviously, the duty of the government and the Ministry of Finance is to anticipate and reduce them. However, there is no doubt at all that the Greek economy - and that is exactly what I want to stress - completes in 2017 in a much better position than in 2016, as it had completed in 2016 in a much better position than in 2015. There is no doubt that uncertainty is removed and that a reliable and clear exit path is now visible. Key - I would say the crucial key - to stabilising the economy, to remove uncertainty, to improve the economic climate and to diversify interest rates was the implementation of the 2016 and 2017 budget, and, more generally, the progress of public finances over the last two years. No budget can achieve many goals at the same time. The budget is a tool. Obviously it can seek a balance between opposing objectives. Both the strategy of these two budgets - both 2016 and 2017 - was double. On the one hand, the consolidation of the credibility of the Greek public finances, while respecting the fiscal objectives, in order to restore the confidence of the markets in the Greek public finances and, as a consequence, the country's affluent, the main cause of the great crisis of 2008-2016, the main cause of the double deficits that led to Greek democracy on the verge of bankruptcy. Firstly, the consolidation of credibility as a prerequisite for getting out of the programme, a precondition for recovering market confidence, but at the same time also for a fair distribution of the necessary and inevitable adaptation to protect the most vulnerable households. The same strategy as the 2017 budget, this dual strategy - credibility on the one hand, and protection of the most vulnerable layers on the other - also characterises the 2018 budget. The 2018 budget is largely determined by the economic environment and financial constraints, which Greek democracy has been facing for a decade. Let me remind you of something that I do not understand why we are constantly forgetting. These restrictions stem from the fact that the country in 2010 reached the verge of destruction, bankruptcy and exiting the common currency. That was the reality and that reality we are still trying to correct. And there is no other way of correcting than budgetary adjustment. However, 2018 is the last year of budgetary adjustment. And the 2018 budget ensures with the slightest possible fiscal adjustment, in a truly unfavourable environment, that it finds room for further strengthening social protection programmes and, indeed, targeted, especially at child poverty. This government, and not the New Democracy government, managed to save through the spending overview of 320 million, to carry out a year earlier the significant increase in family allowances, especially for the first and second children. This government, not the New Democracy, has managed through a review of expenditure to strengthen the budget for school meals and to expand nurseries. Of course, in the medium term, and as long as the constraints relax and the economy recovers, the same instrument, the budget will be able to meet additional objectives. As long as credibility is established and its restoration is not a priority, the budget will be able to reduce tax burdens, which is reflected in the medium-term fiscal strategy programme, with a significant reduction in income, business and property tax of 3.5 billion by 2021. But now, as far as possible, in so far as there is room, it is our aim to reduce taxes. And I am announcing here the reduction of VAT from 24% to 13% for the care units of the elderly, for the nursing homes, for the care facilities for disabled and mentally disabled people. I would like - and please, give me two minutes, Mr President, over the planned time - to comment on the financial proposals of the Vice-President. The New Democracy has been through three successive transformations of its budgetary strategy. In September 2016, accusing the government of destroying the economy, that the budget is falling out - none of this has been verified - from the step of the Thessaloniki International Report proposes reducing tax burdens by EUR 4,19 billion while reducing primary expenditure. EUR 4.2 billion, I tell you from the experience I have gained through a review of primary government operating expenditure, there is no possibility that wages and pensions will be cut significantly. The tank of primary operating costs that one can assess is less than EUR 5 billion. A 10% savings amount to half a billion. Where would the New Democracy find EUR 4.2 billion if it did not pillage the pensions and wages budget? This contradiction in the arguments of the New Democracy has even been visible from the International Monetary Fund, which has been publicly placed, saying that there is no room for any further substantial reduction in expenditure and has forced the New Democracy to resort to a first transformation. The reduction in taxes will now be implemented through the reduction of budgetary targets from 3.5% to 2%. I will not go into the debate why the New Democracy did not, when it could, when the surpluses it itself agreed to were 4.5% and 4.2%. But I will say this. The other side of the currency of reducing the primary surplus targets is the further restructuring of the debt. It cannot reduce the primary surpluses without putting the debt back into a non-viable orbit and therefore to new exclusion from markets, unless it negotiates more restructuring. And I assure you that 2% of budgetary targets for the years 2018-2022 require very large debt restructuring, they require nominal impairment. Or the New Democracy intends to go to the other eighteen Member States to negotiate a nominal debt write-down or to plan unilateral actions. There is no other solution. This contradiction has made New Democracy difficult, and so it has moved on to a new transformation. Second transformation, before its conference, into an interview by the Chief of Officer's Representation in a newspaper which announces that it will reduce taxes and that commitment is unresolved, even if the primary surplus is not reduced. I'm up here now! Reduction of taxes and we are talking about three taxes totalling EUR 2 billion, a reduction in taxes by EUR 2 billion, without a reduction in expenditure and without a reduction in objectives, cannot be done. New Democracy says it can. It can be done because it will be, he says, self-supporting. The reduction in taxes will lead the economy to such a great economic recovery that the revenues generated will balance the loss, thus achieving the objective of primary surpluses. This second transformation of the New Democracy is of particular interest, because it is essentially an escape from reality. I can understand a party claiming to fight for even greater debt restructuring. I'll take it. I accept a party, with far greater realism, out and say that it will reduce expenditure by a reasonable amount. But the argument that tax reductions will bring about a recovery in the same year so much that the revenue that will result from achieving the budgetary target is unrealistic is really an escape from reality! [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] What impresses, however, more - and I am ending with this, Mr President - is not that the proposals of the New Democracy are out of reality. I am impressed by the curiosity, the contradictions in the preparation of economic policy by a party that wants to claim power. And it doesn't just surprise me, but it scares me. It is legitimate to seek new paths of budgetary policy. But what is not legitimate is that it does not take account of data and draft proposals for economic policy outside reality. There is no other proposal for a coordinate, conspicuous, consistent proposal, which brings the country out of the crisis to restore credibility and to do so by social law from the proposal put forward by this government, and I therefore urge you to support this year's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u443	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u444	Mr President, can I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u445	No, Mr. President. The time is advanced. Mr Stavros has spoken many times, he may even have spoken tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u446	However, as a relative reference has been made, it will take the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u447	Two minutes, I'd like to, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u448	Please. One minute, be patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u449	No, Mr. President. Mr Stavros has spoken too many times. He has the opportunity tomorrow to speak. I think it's unfair to the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u450	Tomorrow may not be the Minister here, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u451	Here will be the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u452	Let Mr. Staruras finish. He'll talk for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u453	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u454	Mr. Stavura, just a minute, please. I don't want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u455	First of all, I will start by saying that at the beginning of his position the Minister compared the data at the end of 2017 with the end of 2016. I agree with you all. It's right the information you gave about where the economy is at the end of 2017 compared to the end of 2016. But you forgot to tell us where the economy was at the end of 2014. You were only there. Therefore, if you look at all the economic indicators and those you mentioned, you will see that you have not yet reached that point. You talked about dependence with ELA. But it was zero at the end of 2014. You talked about the rating houses. It was a higher rating. You talked about the statements. It was higher. And there was no mention of the decline in competitiveness, of the late private sector debts, and that even today we are talking about public debts are higher than at the end of 2014. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased You said about the cost overview. Minister, I have sent you questions you have not answered. Can you tell us, please, in 2016 and 2017 from which codes you cut, specific codes, public bodies you cut? You can testify to us where you found the costs, because you haven't submitted them, and they're not in the budget. And in 2017 and 2018 specifically from which codes and bodies you cut, let's see where there was a waste. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And thirdly, no transformation has taken place. We said the same thing, so do we. And the sums that you say at the tax authority total all tax reductions. I'll explain in a minute. In the first few years with two years of reduction of three specific taxes, as you said, in many different ways: By maintaining the ratio one to five, with budgetary discipline to all the bodies of the General Government - you know, there are also bodies that are not within objectives - in a number of others...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u456	Mr. Stavura, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u457	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u458	The three points you wanted to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u459	Ten seconds. After we have done this, after we have implemented structural changes and strengthened liquidity in the real economy, which is not what you do, since you have been keeping the due high debts, we can convince partners and lenders that the pace at which the Greek economy will run will not be 1 that you agreed but higher. How much? Are we saying 1.9? Why do we say 1.9? Why so much did lenders’ reports in 2014 for the economy for the next forty years. If 1 is, therefore, increased, on the basis of the Bank of Greece, the degree of correlation between the numerator and the denominator is double.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u460	Mr President, it has been ten times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u461	Mr. Barca, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u462	Therefore, we can achieve an improvement in the sustainability of the debt, lower primary surpluses, so reductions in tax rates.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u463	Mr. Psychoyus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u464	Let the Minister answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u465	I didn't see him, Mr. Barka, the Minister. For God's sake. You'll talk later. You can say what you want. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u466	I'll be very brief. I have no doubt that 2014 was a year of recovery, anaemic recovery, at a rate of 0.7%, if I'm not mistaken. For what I also doubt, however, is that the end of 2014, the end of the essentially second adjustment programme found the country at 8% borrowing interest rates, without cash to support the same exit on the markets, independently, what we now call a net exit. And therefore, I have no doubt at all that in February 2018 the third programme, the third memorandum, waited at the corner of whatever government was elected. Secondly, on the question of the review of expenditure, I will tell you very briefly that a very large part is derived from the operational expenditure of the Ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u467	Give it to me in writing, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u468	Sure. Another large part, as Mr Stathakis said, arises from the new contract, the new agreement between the Greek State and PPC, with 90 million savings, and at the same time from two other sources that we obviously have to notify in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u469	Minister, answer in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Psychogios has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u471	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I should like to make a comment to clarify things a little and to make no impressions about what Mr Katsaniotis said. After I too gave my condolences to the family of the wronged journalist, I would say that SYRIZA also issued a statement on this issue, but also colleagues, who spoke in plenary, such as Mrs Cavvadia and others, were mentioned in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, we are almost at the end of the list of speakers and speakers, for a very important process in the Greek Parliament, which is the draft budget for 2018. I would therefore like, in particular, to focus on the social sign that this government has given as a priority, to formulating its policy, but also on the 2018 budget, in difficult circumstances. Will anyone reasonably ask, how is it possible within a budget, which is part of a programme of budgetary adjustment to make social policy? And yet, the 2018 budget, the last to move in this strict margin set by the memorandum, contains elements that differentiate its essence from previous governments' budgets, because it sets social priorities. On the one hand, it seeks to leave the country from the Memorandum in the summer of 2018 and on the other, to take the exit with the people upright. But can the social sign be captured in numbers? Because that is the important and essential thing. I will give some examples from two main areas, which are offered to show social rights and the social state, such as health and the labour sector. As far as health is concerned, health expenditure currently stands at 5.1% of GDP compared to 4.5% when we took over governance in 2015. Within this percentage, which cannot be enough for a left-wing government, we have been able to support and streamline public structures in order to go ahead with recruitment of permanent and subsidiary doctors, as well as other staff, which has had to be done since 2009 and to blood the system, ten thousand more and over by now and twenty thousand by 2019. To increase the ability of the ERC to meet the needs of the citizens, which have been multiplied by access to uninsured health care and to strengthen the budgets of hospitals, whose cash is now positively available of about EUR 500 million. As far as the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Solidarity is concerned, we have received the insurance funds with approximately 1.1 billion deficits. We created the EBRD in 2016, which is not only a deficit, but a surplus, which by the end of 2018 is expected to reach 859 million euros. The positive course of the EVA's finances was not accidentally, nor a fragmented one, but was carried out by strategically and targeted by the increase in wage earners, by the fight against implied and undeclared labour and, of course, by the fight against tax evasion by strengthening the EVC. It must be said, of course, that if collective bargaining is not reintroduced, as must be done and made in September 2018, the framework and position of workers remains extremely precarious. The Ministry of Social Solidarity has also targeted a household with a saving of about 240 million euros. This money, as the previous Minister has said, will be allocated to nurseries, to support family allowances, to the school meal programme. They did not come from expenditure cuts or from redundancies, as you did, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations, and you will obviously be doing to find the necessary funds to reduce, as you say, taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, in these three years that we have been in the government we have been forced to implement policies that we have never adopted as our own programme since 2015. Nevertheless, we have been talking at the first moment about the need for a parallel programme to defend basic social rights and leave a left footprint within the suffocating Memorandum Framework. The free access of uninsured people to the health system, the support of educational courses in schools, in particular special education, social solidarity income, the social and solidarity economy, the redistribution of the NRPs, as was heard by the Minister responsible, in order for small and medium-sized enterprises to have access to them, are some of these initiatives. At the same time, the footprint we want to leave is reflected in the policy of rights. In the last three years, strong foundations have been laid in this direction. The abolition of Type III prisons, the decongestion of prisons and the creation of education and reintegration structures within them, citizenship for second-generation children, the education programme of refugees, the legal identity of gender, the abolition of the compulsoryity of sharia, which will come in the next period, as well as the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which is also coming, are steps in this direction. One wonders why the New Democracy, whose European allies and partners are proposing and supporting these at European level, has never brought these bills. It is obviously part of the logic of the law of social inequality - which your Chief has also recommended - and the law of the jungle, where the mighty one survives. It is our duty to continue this effort, because we still have a long way to go, to take advantage of all possible cracks and to draw up an integrated plan that disguises the needs of society, a society in which you are addressing, gentlemen of anti-population, especially the New Democracy and PASOK, the Democratic Reconciliation, as if you landed in the country of 2015 and judge the odds yourself. It is the phenomenon of a mirror, namely that we are in the interests, that we are in clientele relationships, that we have property relationships with power, that we have received loans of over 200 million that we have not repaid, and the world knows very well who has done this. Also, many colleagues from these two parties completely detested the people, saying they eat hay, that they made a big mistake with SYRIZA, that they were trained wrongly. Unfortunately for you, ladies and gentlemen, our difference is that we come from the very hearts of this society, that this is what we serve, that we account for it alone. Societies, ladies and gentlemen, have chosen and highlighted the Left at all times in the difficult and, when requested, it will do so again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr. Psychoyo. Mr. Salmas has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u473	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall give you a few thoughts. I would remind you that it is the eighth budget to which I have the honour of participating. Mr Statakis, I will make a comment on what you said, if I may. After you did everything so well with PPC and gave PPC 1.2 billion, why did we pay all citizens twice as much money to PPC in the last accounts? That's what's interesting about the world. Another thing I'm wondering about: You forgot to say that when the previous government was talking about selling the small PPC, Mr. Spirtzis as president of the Technical Chamber, but also all of SYRIZA, said this was a sale of property. But now you have suddenly come to support how important it is that you privatize it in one way or another, without saying what the sum will be, to compare it to one and a half billion. I expect that as soon as I finish my speech. A better way to privatize PPC. I would like to say, however, that when you decided to go to SYRIZA, you obviously read his statute, because you could be a good minister in a right-wing government or a socialist government, who believes in the free economy. When you went to SYRIZA, you will read his statute, in which you have sworn, which says that he does not believe in the free economy and believes in the social economy and believes in social property - I read it to you, don't smile, I have it in front of me - and in the social management of productive resources. So you came to ask for the vote of the Greek people to give the PPC employees, not to sell it on better terms - that you will tell me now when I'm done - than the previous government was planning. In other words, you were not brought by the Greek people to privatize. It brought you, on the basis of the Marxist theory, which says your statute again, to take the businesses and give them to the workers. That's it. Because you're smiling, I have to document it. It says your statutes: "Socialism for us is so that workers can design, manage and control their elected bodies of production, directing it to satisfy the social needs". That's what SYRIZA says. [[Laughing and applause from the wing of SYRIZA]] Well done, very good. I do not hide from you that I have never seen people applaud for what they are not doing, and they have promised the citizens that they believe in it. That's what makes you not have what to answer when Mr. Pamalis criticizes you on the left. Obviously, Mr Juliarakis, you must explain to the Greek people, because when you took an economy even to anaemic growth of 0.8%, you took it in the next two years to a recession. What's that? Are you a successful government? Imagine if you hadn't gotten her into development. You took a growth economy and took it to a recession in 2015 and 2016 and closed the banks. You are pleased here that the general government surplus is 0.8%, but explain to the three hundred and thirty thousand who expect to receive their pensions, since you have such a good surplus, why don't you clear the pensions and, in this way, keep the surplus in general? Explain it, let's see how things look. And tell me, are you proud to have a surplus above the target? What's your theory? When you went to the negotiation with the institutions, what did you ask them? Do you have more or less surpluses to understand? Because the economic theory says big surpluses mean austerity. If you were asking for lower surpluses, why are you cutting off the ESS and supplementary pensions on the pensioners' waffles, so that you could share crumbs? If the budget comes out of you, explain to the one you cut off his C.E.S.D. because you cut it off for him. So, to solve a myth, is SYRIZA the party that supported the poor? Listen, ladies and gentlemen, people with incomes of EUR 700 have seen nothing. They saw a reduction in the minimum pension, a cut in the CSR and a cut in the supplementary pension. At the same time, they saw an increase in VAT, an increase in ENPI rates and land, an increase in excise duty on fuel, a reduction in heating oil subsidies, an increase in cigarettes, an increase in fixed telephony, the introduction of special Internet tax. These are all the benefits used by the middle class. So you increased the household costs. You didn't help it. We are now going to the order of one and a half million people, who are in relative poverty. Who are they? A million seven hundred thousand people are in relative poverty today. If the threshold was 420 euros, because of the 2014 GDP, it would have been much more. What does that mean? In 2014, EUR 420 thought you were relatively poor. It's 60% of average income. But today, you're not considered relatively poor with 420 euros. So let's go see for those with income under 200-380 euros, what have you done? Did you help them? What did you help them with? Nothing. In this category, ladies and gentlemen, the EUR 360 generation, which was gigantic over part-time work at the expense of full-time, is the minimum pension at EUR 360 and is the unemployment allowance at EUR 360. Tell us what you did for them? So for the 1.7 million in relative poverty you gave them nothing and took them from the available income, with all the increases in the family basket I told you about, due to the increases you made in taxes. Let's go from zero to 200 euros that are eight hundred thousand to absolute poverty. You gave them the minimum guaranteed income. You were obliged to do it from the ERC in 2014. You found it, you stopped it in 2015 and you had to give it in 2016. How do you give it? No check. If someone today gets a pension abroad, they get the minimum guaranteed income. If anyone's on black labor, he gets the guaranteed income. If anyone doesn't want to go to work, you give him the minimum guaranteed income. So, in these accusations of the poor you did nothing. The dividend you gave last year, you gave it to the pensioners and not to them. This year you go to give them crumbs, but once there will be no dividends for all these two and a half million Greeks, who are in absolute and relative poverty and in one million who is in threat of poverty, you have given them nothing. With regard to cumulation, food and nutrition in schools, I will only tell you that from the TEVA, the European Aid Fund, from 2014 to 2020, Greece had had the right to take 330 million, the 270 would be from the Community funds to give them as food aid in the country. How many of this money has been raised? 0.8%. You didn't even get those.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u474	Mr. Salma, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u475	I'm closing up with the minimum guaranteed income I've said. The minimum guaranteed income, ladies and gentlemen, has three pillars. One is the allowance, until he goes to the third pillar, which is the reintegration. Do you know how many people have re-entered to work all this time, from 2016 to 2017? Of the two hundred and eighty thousand, three thousand two hundred. From two hundred and eighty thousand beneficiaries, households, only three thousand two hundred found a job, which is less than 1%. Regarding the last allowance to the unemployed, I would like to tell you, Mr Stathakis, where you are inside the market, the EUR 400 you said you would give them for a new eighteen to twenty-four years old what is more important? Tell him you're giving him 400 euros or telling him - for example - that you're paying for a month to go try him a business so you can open him a door, a chance? You understand that in this way, the allowances, you want to have a society that is committed and dependent on donation policy, an entire society, with the prospect of getting votes in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u476	Mr. Salma, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u477	Mr President, I would like to ask one question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u478	You'll talk in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u479	Is Mr. Salmas a Government Representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u480	Why do you ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u481	Because he's been talking ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u482	He spoke nine minutes. And Mr. Michaelides spoke nine minutes. Nineteen minutes, Mr. Stathakis spoke, instead of ten. Please very much. There is tolerance for all colleagues. You've all spoken before. Please very much. Observations, if ever possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u483	Since this morning, we've been here and everyone has spoken so much and nobody says anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u484	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u485	Here you go, Mr. Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u486	Mr. Salma, in 1789 at the first national convention in France, some sat right and some sat left. They talked for many days about three words, what freedom is, what equality is and what brotherhood is. Since then, from the way they understood freedom, the people have said economic freedom, the right, and we are not interested in anything else. The left was saying: well, economic freedom is not saying, it is good, but brotherhood, I care what my French side does. So I'm not gonna protect him socially when he falls when he doesn't have a doctor? So, yes, freedom, but also brotherhood and equality. So the identities, the fact that we are a left party, and it is reflected in our statute, and you are a right-wing party, are data. That hasn't changed over time. This does not say that you cannot in a democratic system rule the Right or the Left on the basis of the programme and the needs of society and the way it has to solve problems. We in 2015 did not go down to the elections with our statute. As you do not go down to the elections with your statutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u487	We in our statute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u488	In the elections we go down because we have a series of thoughts, ideas and proposals on how to solve the problems facing the economy and society. We had an agreement in 2015 with the institutions, with it we went down to the elections and our thoughts on how to stabilise the economy in a socially fair manner. Mr. Juliarakis analysed it very well. We citizens trusted us for the way, for our ideas and proposals that we had in 2015. We have not come down by statute and I wonder how an experienced politician tells us that the identity of a party creates and saves a monopoly in governance. You must be voted on by the citizens, what should we do? You will find it difficult to avoid this process, any other method and try to follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Juliarakis, I've been informed that you have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u490	I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. We'll be back in 2014 because you mentioned it. So I would remind you again that in December 2014 the loan cost of the Greek State exceeded 8%. Today it's at 3.8%. With 8% on the markets you don't go out, it's forbidden. Cash assets, the security reserve for exiting the markets we are now building, it was zero, it didn't exist. The 2014 budget was 1.5%. The 2014 result was 0,2%. The 2015 target was 3%. If the government did not renegotiate the programme, it had to go from a result of 0.2% to a result of 3%, i.e. 2.8% increase. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] We are now talking about a difference from the final result of '17 in '18 which is less than 1%. And you blame us for austerity. There was no way the economy, the country would get out of a program without cash reserves, with interest rates at 8% and with an obligation to climb a step of 2.7%, 2.8%. I shall now refer to the primary surpluses. Look, clearly it's worse to always fall under the target. The country's problem for many years has been a problem of credibility and you don't open the way out of the programs if you don't once start catching your goals. And until 2014, the governments did not get any budget targets. You are right, of course, when you say that the production of overcrowding is not a good thing. You're right about that. Because, as you said, it is accompanied by great leaps. We saw that the 2010-2014 adjustment was accompanied by a recession of 25%. I did not see such a recession between 2015 and 2017, although we had overflows. The economy was stagnant. Uncertainty remained especially in 2015, but I did not see a recession. What does that mean? It means something has started to change in the way the economy works. Our forecast in both the 2016 budget and the 2017 budget was to achieve a target with a very small margin above the target, a margin of security of 0.1%, 0,2%. The fact that we have produced results significantly higher than the target without recession shows that some of the deep parameters of the economy in household behaviour and the ability of the state to collect taxes have changed. And that's not bad, it's good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The reason is the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas for eight minutes. Mr. Barkas, Mr. Koutsoubas, will be followed and we will close the meeting with the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Kountoura. Here you go, Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u492	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know whether it would be useful for me to be the last speaker and the others to be transferred tomorrow morning so that they can give more public opinion to more people, on the other hand, on the other hand. It won't hurt anyone if we're out of 12...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u493	Two speakers, two Ministers and we shall end, Mr President. Let's get this over with today. It's scheduled, Minister. We're here from morning to night every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u494	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u495	So that no one is drawn from the dynamics of the debate. We therefore have in front of us the third budget that our own government is tabling. And so this strange little illustration of 2015, year after year, becomes a historic period. And the historical period so far has three features in my opinion. The first feature is effectiveness. And it is now commonly accepted - through difficult battles, through problems - that in the summer of 2018 the country emerges from the Memorandum of Understanding. And it is then called upon to be able to do so on its own, through the terms of its participation, of course, in the European Union. Wasn't that, ladies and gentlemen, the main promise after the disastrous choice of the memorials for eight years? How can you get past this? With prudence, with talks about cleanliness? That was the point, wasn't it? He understands, too, that this government succeeds in getting the country out of the Memorandum Committee. On this path of effectiveness, we must remain firmly oriented until the agreement is concluded. And it is necessary to insist, seriously, that no thought or action be taken to undermine the completion of the country's effort, this on our side, but also on the part of the institutions, who must respect both their signature and their obligations and the efforts of the Greek people. At the same time, we need to plan the next day. And within this design and its technical characteristics, we will be tested as a government in a clear and distinct system of incentives and obligations concerning the political system, the new production model as a central element of economic development and the reconstituting of the social state. And this system of incentives and obligations is about the state and its institutions, the private, state and public economy, but also about all the people, lifestyle and social habits. If this is the first feature, the second feature of the period is social orientation. Other ministries and colleagues of the Complex have mentioned and will refer in detail to the measures that keep society upright, with a clear dissatisfaction in favour of the weakest, most affected by this social orientation. The question, however, of the new formation of the social state and the social redistribution of the wealth produced is central to this new design, and it is important that this redistribution should not be a one-off provision, but rather become a permanent social situation that will reduce the social and economic gap. Into the statutes we are in this. And I tell you that in this direction we can now move and that is important. The third feature of the period is the fear and therefore panic reaction of the pre-existing system of political, communication, para-economic, anti-social. And if a criticism is worthy of us in SYRIZA, it is the criticism that says that we feel the need to respond and we also have the sensitivity to respond first and foremost to Civic Opposition, which raises a voice of criticism to our political forces. So, what's going on? The political power which struggles for an unsympathetic market of over-profits or as I say, under the general slogan that it proposes in society "an apology for... a parable", turns and tells people, which the poet says are fighting for the whole world's bread, light and song all their lives: "Why don't you do this and do it for your positions, which belong to us?". That logic, the logic of ownership must come out of the mind of Officer Response. He gave a nice, not ironic, but a very correct answer from the Minister, George Stathakis. Here is the question: We will continue to fight - and our statute says this - but will you ever answer us how you, lads, can create a public debt of EUR 320 billion with these policies? How did you manage to have permanent deficits? And how do you think the Greek people will suffer a universal amnesia? And you're presenting us with a strange year 2014, where everything was good and nice, but in 2015 neither the strangers nor SYRIZA threw you, your elections were thrown away. And you come and say that you were saying too much then. In September 2015, the elections were re-enacted, and the people themselves will always appreciate you and shoot you. I would like you to allow me - and I would like two more minutes, Mr President - to speak a little bit about the Ministry of National Defence. He's got a double duty, nobody would say. First and foremost, let me say that his first task is the defensive armour of the country and it will be smooth and naive anyone, foreign or local, to think that Greece seems or says it is strong. Greece is strong, our Armed Forces are strong and I would ask you very much to restrain at least one of your MPs, who has overshadowed the battle and the capacity of the Armed Forces. The second condition is, however, the social offer and I would like to give some answers. The contribution of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence is known in the management of the refugee and in the issues discussed here. However, we must also be aware of the management of the funds that we have received from the European Union. The Ministry of National Defence from AMIF in 2017 took 47,492,000 euros, from ISF took 9,220,000 euros, from the PPC received about 1,400,000 euros, from the national part of the PPC, i.e. from the state budget, about 3,500,000 euros. These were spent at zero management costs, so that Greece can show its own humanity with high head. [[At this point the closing bell of the Deputy Minister's speaking time is ringing.]] We also granted seven camps to form the appropriate accommodation areas. But that's not enough. They know what we did in 2017 Kymi, Skopelos, Pangaios, Samothraki, Kavala, Ai Stratis, Lesvos, Alexandroupolis, Sofia Corinthia, Kalamos, Kythera, Zakynthos, along with the people who were volunteers, along with the social organizations. The people of Mandra know what we've done in this direction. Even more, however, in this period, right now, twenty-nine unqualified doctors are in Ereikossa, Mandraki, the Furnus, the Leipzig, who have often never seen a rural doctor there. And of course, at the same time, we're sending doctors to the regional hospitals as well. Finally, we are moving on other issues, such as the fact that the Xyras Army maintained the schools buildings in the minority villages of High and Organic. And, of course, it is well known that we have given social status - I do not want to say much about it - and the 'Pavlou Mela' Camp, and at the same time the 'Dimaki' Camp in Karditsa. At the same time, we did everything we could to take care of the needs of military personnel and of wages. The wages had dropped by 38% in the past four years. If you follow the budget, there is also a small increase in wage costs. Of course, we have given another level of pride. The last example was "AVEROV", with a hundred and fifty thousand visits to northern Greece. We have also moved on and this year the largest housing program, with a hundred and eighty homes, plus eighty three from the "Pavlou Mela" Camp and another sixty-nine in progress. I don't want to talk about hospitals so I won't take much time. The point is that we did this with the same money in 2015, 2016, half the money in 2010. In 2010, the money was about 5 billion, in 2009, which I remember very well, was 6 billion, and now the budget of the Ministry of National Defence is 3 billion, distributed 2 billion for pay, about 500 million for armament projects. Here I want to say that the equipment programs are on their way. We have the program 'Pope 3', the upgrading of F-16 and new programs to help and modernise the Fleet and the Land Army. So we did this with the same money, and this social project did it with the same executives. We didn't make any new army. They were the same people. But there is one difference. First, when we hear them. Secondly, we have given them room for manoeuvre. Thirdly, we very much respect the effort, we pay tribute to the role, we understand their inspiration from duty and we show care for the problems. And I am not only saying this to the opposition, or I am not even saying it to the opposition. I'm saying it to us. Now that the economy is starting and changing, this new gain must be expressed in terms of improving the living conditions of these people, the vast majority of whom I would say are getting the wages of an average worker, an average worker. And that's never to be forgotten. So I say that by staying in this effort, unbelievably, without being subjected to pressure groups, we will ensure as a Ministry of National Defence and the armouring of the country and we will continue our social role. We are not asking, as my dear colleague Mr Juliarakis knows, for more money in our budget. Because more than anyone, or the same as all the members of the Armed Forces, understand the need to get away from the stagnation and open up a new future for the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Barkas has the floor for six minutes. You'll have tolerance too, if you need it. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u497	I don't think I need to, Mr. President. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u498	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u499	Ladies and gentlemen, these days in Parliament we are discussing the state budget for the year 2018. This debate is also taking place in another area, in a different frame in relation to the debates that took place in the previous years in the corresponding budget debates. And the main difference is that this budget is the last Memorandum. This is something that you also know from the Members of the New Democracy and the PASOK and the River and from all the wings of the House, but also from all those who share with you on the front that has been created within the country against the Government and SYRIZA. And I am referring to the interior, because foreign views are, fortunately or unfortunately, different. But let us see what our main differences are, what arguments they are competing with in the budget under discussion. The New Democracy to be able to escape from the political void placed by its Chief in request for long-term elections has dug up its close past, that of the government of Samaras - Venizelos. It was a government that society, the world, has placed it in the time of history, not in one, but in three elections, characterizing it as one of the worst governments the place has ever known and which it doesn't even want to remember. The Members of Parliament, however, of the New Democracy and of PASOK in order to be able to find political arguments are backing up, reintroducing, I would say, the theory of the success of the Samara - Venizelos governments in the period 2012-2015. And what are they telling us? We're told that the development course of the country and exit from the memoranda was interrupted by SYRIZA. But they forget to tell us in this account how the evaluations of their programme did not close and they could not be closed, because neither the percentages of the primary surpluses that were intended could be caught, nor was the growth rate of the Greek economy needed. So the intelligence of the other government of Samaras - Venizelos, seeing the abhorrence of the Greek people to them and their policies and following the most extreme anti-left, anti-fungal views and their thoughts, designed the so-called left parentheses plan. They did not close the evaluation and transferred the election of the President of the Republic willingly earlier, knowing that they do not have the required number of Members. In fact, for the first time in Greek time, a former Greek Prime Minister did not hand over the Maximos Mansion to the new Prime Minister of the country, as customary, following - what I mentioned earlier - his most extreme anti-left opinions. Let us not hide it, let us admit it, as good politicians and ideological opponents: you are not comfortable losing power through your hands by some who think that they should not be in the parliamentary seats, by people from society, by movements, by workplaces. Anthems, then, to the Government of Samara - Venizelou by the MPs of the New Democracy and PASOK, whom, listening to them, comes to mind a phrase: What happened, guys? Why such a heat? Where was the new leadership strategy of Mr. Mitsotakis' party? You have been haunted by the new leadership and, above all, by the positive developments of the Greek economy in recent years, which have sought to rectify the extreme right, to rectify a catastrophic government, such as the Samaras - Venizelos. And one would say that the New Democracy MPs are doing well. However, with the aim of re-establishing extreme neoliberalism by the MPs, who define themselves as central, I think that we have in our eyes the absolute design of the old state-of-the-art political system which takes out its last loops by saying that they can only live in power. That's their oxygen. How else can we perceive Mrs. Gennimata's embrace with Mr. Mitsotakis, but also their certainty that they will be found next to them again - by the chariot of power? And sitting in the rear seat of the chariot, Mr. Theodorakis. On the other hand, bearing in mind our historic role, we are trying to achieve two objectives. Firstly, we must take the country off the road of the memoranda on which the PASOK and the New Democracy have put, with society standing and shaped developments, trying to give the world what with violence has been lost between 2010 and 2015, escaping society from extreme poverty, youth from the abyss of unemployment. We, gentlemen, do not celebrate and create our own success plan. We're turning our head down and working for the benefit of society. Our second aim is to avoid the place of destruction, such as those of the Papandreou, Papadima, Samaras and Venizelos, because this would be the worst scenario, the worst nightmare in society. The rest of you, however, is the most entertaining thing: How we make these for the chair. But who do say that and who do they call it? Firstly, Mr Mitsotakis, whose family has had at least two members for at least every parliamentary term, and I do not measure cousins for at least thirty years. Mrs Bakoyannis, who, after being deleted from the New Democracy, made her own party and did not enter the House, went back to New Democracy, to enter the House and take a seat, accompanied by the current secretary of the New Democracy Mr. Aygeaki. The latter left New Democracy and was not elected MP, returned to New Democracy with a parliamentary seat. And not to mention the issues of family rule, because that's where we're going to lose count. And you're telling this to who? To the members of the SYRIZA, who have identity and obviously did not join the Left with a view to our electoral success. This debate, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, does not suit you for that, and you have engaged in a constant attempt to distort reality. But your political plan won't pass. This is the last budget in a memorandum regime. This is the government, which will take the country out of the crisis and the memorials, with society upright and regulator of developments. And you, gentlemen, will place you once and for all where you really belong, i.e. at the corner of the political developments of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u500	Thank you, Mr. Barkas. Last on the speaker list is Mr. Koutsubas from New Democracy. We will close this evening's meeting with the Minister of Tourism, Mrs. Kundura. Mr. Koutsubas has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u501	First, I thank those who remained. Dear Mr. Veyropoulos, Mr. Consola, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, thank you for having been patient. Mr President, Minister, I have sincerely been concerned and wondered at all this time when I have been attending the meeting constantly, no matter how much I should speak at noon, especially at this time. We all agree that this process, the discussion and the vote on the budget, is a prominent parliamentary procedure, that it is a top political act. Is the Minister of Economics, the Minister of Finance and Mr Stathakis, the Minister of the Environment and Energy speaking and are there fifteen Members in the Chamber? What kind of serious parliamentary procedure is this? I too denounce it, I note it. I'm closing the speaker circle. It doesn't matter if we say tomorrow 'We all talked nicely. They spoke a hundred and ninety-five," that is, quantitative participation. It is important that the way Parliament operates and that of quality, that of genuine participation. I too see that there is no substantial, qualitative involvement of Members of Parliament. Parliament's Rules of Procedure need to see how this parliamentary procedure will change. Before I move on to my position on the subject of the agenda, I would like to say - but I must say this, because we will not have the opportunity tomorrow - to the dear friend, the Minister of Justice, Mr Stavros Kontonis - with whom I can say that we had a fruitful, productive and constructive cooperation on justice matters and the Committee on Pensions - that I was struck by his position. Let me say briefly: justice can't exist. Secondly, I was surprised that he said: 'We are legislating on the basis of popular cheques'. No, Mr. Contonis, not Minister of Justice. Parliament does not legislate on the basis of popular cheques. We have a parliamentary democracy. Thirdly, I was struck by another saying - and I think it will be answered by the Union of Judges and the supreme judicial bodies - that is, we are all accountable and accountable to the judges for their decision on where you stand. I know that in parliamentary democracies, only the Members are accountable to the people, judged, voted, voted against and not the judges. Unless the Minister of Justice suggests that he will set up people's courts for the judges. I believe, and I deplore it, that it does not lead the country there. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You don't have to answer. I think it was his fault and he will have to make up for it, because in Parliament's democracies we have to accept it all. Maybe he's right about where you came from. Another agreement that we have to have a statement where you were, because we had a lot of discussions, and more publicity. Because there have been many discussions - and during the previous parliamentary term - about how they should be made public. I'd tell you, dear colleague, this. Why should your neighbor, who is opposite the building, know that you have two minor children and that you have 50,000 euros in the bank or at home? Why would the potential thief, fraud, robber bring him to your door? So it wants a great deal of discussion, not of the statement, but of the publicity. I was saying this when we had a conference - a conference in the Secretariat-General for Transparency in the previous parliamentary term. So let us come to today's debate. In short, I don't think you're right to think I'm going to convince you not to vote on the budget. Alas! It is a top political act and you must vote for it. I'll tell you two positive things I saw on your side. I saw as positive that you were turning, turning to realism - and I am glad - through privatisation. You have also been discharged of delusion, which I consider to be a good thing. I see you're taking a step forward, but you're going back two. You're being taken by some people. Who? Those to whom you have built your policy, these collectives, those groups, with 'I do not pay', 'I do not pay', 'not in privatization'. That's what they're holding you for! However, I would ask you to take the step further, the step towards the reform to which most of you agree, and we agree - on these points - that many of us need homeland. This budget serves the objectives and objectives that the Minister for Economic Affairs must have and as the Minister for Economic Affairs said a budget, namely, public finances, development aid and social justice, must have? The people in charge spoke more about public finances. I'm not going into their fields. I'll talk about social justice. I think you would see, on Thursday where the general strike was, that society was yelling at both the trade unions and the workers. What did they want? Their basic transcripts on the labels, which they had hanged, were a wage at 751, duty free of 12,000 euros, a right to strike and collective labour contracts. The ones they had in 2009. Don't forget that! So now we're going to development. Mr President-in-Office, I in my prefecture, in Boeotia Prefecture, saw no development project. If we wanted to legislate on the basis of the people's cheques, I would say to you - because I have to say something about the county - why, Minister of Defence, are you closing down the camp of Thebes? People's cheque is not to hang up. I won't get into localistic perceptions. However, I have not seen any real work in addition to the serious efforts made by the region through the relevant Regional Director, Mr Bakoyannis. Infrastructural infrastructure, which is linked to education and productive model, what you represent, I do not see it. I say this not only for you, but for the previous one, my own government. Proof: But, is it possible for the Agronomic School to have a seat in Athens, when in Kopaidas has property, has infrastructure, has fields it cultivates, which it rents? Can the Agricultural School in Athens be? So how are we talking about a new production model? I'm saying it and I'm asking it right now. It is a request, not only from Boeotia, but also from farmers. If you want to go to a new development, in a new productive model, the Agricultural School - I will ask the government tomorrow - to come to Boeotia Prefecture. I'll close two sentences. You've got two records lately. One account is that "all right, you guys, it's not our fault - one of your Members said it in an interview - it's not the one who's tormented about the cruelty of the torturer". I will reply to him by quoting: it is not the ruling citizen's fault for political incapacity and not for the scientific inability of the ruling. And another account you've been using lately is this. You say "we too much of what we do do do do do do not believe, nor do we want privatisations, no airports, neither the Greek nor the ports that we closed, neither Thessaloniki nor Piraeus, but what do we do? They are imposed on us by foreigners!" I shall read you a phrase that a great politician, no one doubts, in 1963. So listen, to keep it in mind: "When a politician knows what has to be done in his country and cannot do so because they deny him the necessary conditions, he must withdraw rather than compromise with his conscience." The country can proceed without you. Good night, you and a good year!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u502	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. Today's meeting will be completed by the Minister of Tourism, Mrs. Kouturas. Madam Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u503	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last three years our Government has been with strong political will, concrete development plan and efficiency, which has exceeded all expectations, has implemented the national strategic objective for the definitive exit of the crisis, for the relaunch of the Greek economy in terms of sustainability and competitiveness, for the country's productive reconstruction in new, healthy bases. The next few months are decisive and the goal is until the summer of 2018 to get out of the program. Our determination in implementing the necessary reforms and the progress Greece has made is recognised by all international institutions, bodies and foreign markets. The economic climate and the business environment are constantly improving. Unemployment has declined almost seven points over the last three years and employment is now growing at close to 2%. Direct foreign investment has been at record levels in the last two years and in 2017 we have increased up to 70%. The Greek economy runs positively, with over-performance of its objectives and continuous improvement in its fundamental sizes, industrial production and processing, retail trade, exports and, of course, tourism in all tourist sizes. In this new positive economic environment, the contribution of tourism is crucial. Tourism is the driving force for the economy, which can lead to growth and all other productive sectors and Greek tourism recorded the highest historical performance for three consecutive years. In 2017 it was a spectacular year with an increase of over 9% in international arrivals and we estimate that we will touch over 30 million - record of all time - in tourist revenues. This rise is the largest of the last three years and then of the successive records of the previous two years. In 2015 we closed about 26 million international arrivals and in 2016 with 28 million arrivals. In 2017, tourism boosted consumption and deposits, significantly increased transport, and in the ninth month a history of passenger traffic at our country's airports was recorded with almost 10% increase compared to 2016, which was a record year. It contributed to the rise in retail trade, in the Tax-free market, in the consumption of catering and in exports. It brought a two-digit increase in the visitability and revenue of archaeological sites and museums. It is predominant in the start of new businesses, but also in the creation of new jobs. Recent economic and banking forecasts indicate that the overall contribution of tourism to employment is expected to increase over one unit in 2017, to 24.6% of the 23.4% in 2016 and is expected to reach 26% in 2018. For 2018, the first positive messages and precautions make us very optimistic. The numbers are already doubled. Our aim is to introduce Greece as a globally attractive destination for tourism three hundred sixty-five days a year. We seek through sustainable, fair and balanced tourist development, economic and development benefits spread over all destinations, local communities, over the coming years. According to our national regional tourism policy since 2015, the aim is to increase the destinations, but also the tourist movement in winter. We strengthened our traditional markets, America, Canada, Russia and opened new dynamic markets for visitors of high purchasing power, the Middle East, China, India. We have five strategic axes, which have already worked. We did, above all, the extension of the summer tourist season. And in 2016 and 2017, September, October and November were the best months of all time, with a two-digit increase in arrivals and high completeness in all destinations. We have been persistently negotiating and ensuring the introduction of new direct flights, as connectivity is the key to tourist development, as we opened new markets, as I said before. It is very important, because within the strategic objectives we have strengthened the thematic products, which are also very important to achieve our objectives, to extend the period, to highlight new destinations and, of course, to develop growth at an annual rate of 7%, above twice the average of world tourism, which has made our country very attractive and has attracted high added value investments for the years to come. During this period of dynamic development of Greek tourism, our priority is to strengthen the availability and quality of the tourist product, in order to meet the new development needs of the Greek tourism market and with a series of reforms we have created a very friendly environment for entrepreneurship and investment. In cooperation with the appropriate ministries, we are dealing with legislative gaps and diseases of the past and adopting a more effective and flexible legal, institutional framework, based on modern international practices and trends. We have simplified the procedures for the establishment of the licensing and operation of new tourist enterprises, we have established modern criteria and specifications for individual sectors of tourism, we have codified tourist legislation. We have taken over a hundred years of laws and now have them digitally on our site, so that tourist professionals, potential investors have direct access to this digital portal with all modern and current legislation, as they are today. We activated the Satellite Tourism Account. which was an announcement of years. We've heard it from all the governments. We started piloting the 2015 data. Our aim is to reflect the overall and comprehensive picture of all tourist sizes as an essential tool in developing long-term tourism policies. We are also setting up the Tourism Observatory. We have legislated to overcome time-consuming problems from the past and to create the conditions for further investment. A characteristic example is health and well-being tourism, and in particular the part of health tourism, because that is where we have solved a chronic problem of the recognition of health resources and the licensing of health facilities so that we can make rapid use of investment and become part of financial and development programmes. We have put in place modern standards for centres of sea therapy and health tourism. We are working on a more effective framework for medical tourism. We are completing the standards for agricultural tourism and the granting of a special mark. The strengthening of cruise, yachting and diving tourism, as well as the exploitation of marinas, are in our priorities. We promote a high level of thematic experiences, which are linked to the competitive advantages of our country in each region and destination and create new opportunities for development at local level. A protagonist always, our history and our culture that have given our country global radiation and is a dominant choice of visitors of high income, but also of educational level. Also, other authentic experiences chosen by visitors are linked to religious tourism, pilgrimage, sports-training, outdoor tourism, winter, conference, city trips and, of course, the only Greek gastronomy that we promote very dynamically. Tourism is a government priority and its link to all productive sectors is a strategic option for our development. We are promoting policies to encourage synergies between tourism, primary agricultural production, export processing, so as to support producers, small professionals, family businesses. We encourage the integration of local products into hotels and throughout the tourist chain. We have ensured through the NSRF 2014-2020 the activation of more than 300,000 000 and co-financed actions for tourism. We have launched the two programmes through the ENPANEC. One is for the existing ones, in order to modernise and upgrade small and medium-sized enterprises, tour operators of some 110 million, but also a new programme, which has already been launched, with a total of 120 million for the establishment of new small and medium-sized tourist enterprises. We are participating for the first time as a partner in transnational co-financed projects, such as INTERREG for new projects and development in thematic tourism, bilateral meetings and international fora. Of course, in our international contacts abroad with investment agents, we promote Greece as a globally attractive investment destination. We invited and attracted interest in top groups from America, Europe, the Middle East, China and Russia to invest in Greece. International chains come dynamically into the Greek market. Strong groups and investment funds are exploring specific opportunities in the dynamically developing tourism sector, as well as in the real estate and international travel groups are already active in our country and are strengthening their presence with investment in hotels. Three hundred investment proposals have been submitted for the last two years to the services of the Ministry of Tourism, for existing and new four-story and five-story hotels and special tourist infrastructure permits. Two hundred and fifty-four tourist investments have also been made under the development law, a total budget of over 920 million euros. As a means of implementing the national communication strategy for the global promotion and promotion of Greek tourism, EOT implements a very dynamic programme with mixed advertising, advertising with the leading travel groups, enhanced presence in international tourist exhibitions, promotion on global electronic platforms, promotional activities on traditional media and extensive actions on social media, with an organisation of "facilitation trips", as we call it, which have exceeded about two hundred fifty. We sought and established a stronger presence in the international tourism market and strengthened our cooperation with international actors. We have gained a more active institutional role in decisions and policies, shaped in tourism worldwide. We won for the first time and were elected a member of the Executive Board of the World Tourism Organization for the period 2018-2021. We were proposed and via me Greece chaired at the top OECD conference on tourism in Paris on 2-3 October. There for the first time, Greek positions were adopted and in the OECD's statement on sustainable and inclusive growth policy, Greece had a strong dynamic presence. We inaugurated the year of tourism Greece - Russia 2017-2018. We promote tourism cooperation with China and support the initiative, 'a road, a zone', 'one belt, one Road' for the European Union-China tourism year 2018. Also in 2018, Greece will host following our own invitation to top conferences, such as the International Tourist Forum of Lucerne, the World Tourism Organization's conference on travel tourism and the conference of the American Association of Travel agencies “ASTA Destination EXPO”, which is a huge opportunity to promote and promote our country in the American tourist market for all the years ahead. We are radically upgrading and modernising public tourism education, with a view to the high training of tourist staff and the high quality of the services provided. We support the higher schools of Rhodes, Crete and the eight public IEC tourism. Here, I would like to say that the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism from 11 December to 5 January 2018 is also in public consultation. They are the arrangements for modernising the institutional framework in the tourism sector and they have already been set up in the "DENMARK". Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank all my colleagues. I would like to thank all the service actors, who, with great interest, mood, appetite and love, have supported this effort. The success of tourism is a success of all professionals, it is a success of Greece. I would like to thank all the Members who have transferred to me the problems that exist. We're giving solutions immediately. I would like to say that in this national effort, all regions, local government, chambers of commerce, but also local bodies and the private sector are close. We have proved that the Greeks united can achieve very great things. Tourism unites, it's a national case. I think we're on a very good path. These three years of development have made us very proud, because tourism supports the Greek economy, but at the same time it is also the 'bridge', it is the sector that strengthens other productive sectors so that they can grow. I will close, saying that tourism is the driving force for our national economy. It is the future for progress and for prosperity. I urge you to vote in favour of this budget. Thank you very much. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u504	Thank you very much to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-18-S1-commons.u505	With the consent of the House at no time 23.42' the meeting is closed for Tuesday, December 19, 2017, at 11.00, on the subject of the House's work: continuation of the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2018’.
