ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 27 January 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 377/23-1-2017 by MP Kozani of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Kasapidis to the Minister of Finance about the exacerbation of the coastal economy in the wine market due to the imposition of a excise duty. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 384/24-1-2017 by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the "treaty of the real estate of Greeks in Himara equities". 3. The question by No 375/23-1-2017 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights about the "necessary protection of the prestige of Justice by anti-constitutional initiatives". 4. The Question No 383/24-1-2017 by the Member of the Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Finance concerning the amendment of the provisions of Law 2971/2001 ‘Aegialos Beach and other provisions’. 5. The Question No 382/23-1-2017, by MEP I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the plan to weaken Macedonia's police and firefighting powers. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Anna Karamanlis asked the Minister of Culture and Sport about the Interim Management Committee in Greek Football, by number 378/23-1-2017. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 385-24-1-2017 topical question by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Finance about the performance of the Olympic Games. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the final and fair regulation of the debts incurred by car rental companies for the period prior to 2007. 4. The Question No 390/24-1-2017 by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of expenditure in special education - "therapy". 5. The Question No 344/16-1-2017 by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, Minister for Health, concerning the discontent of citizens with EEAS and public health care. 6. The Question No 358/17-1-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning measures to be taken on the disasters in agricultural crops in areas of Crete due to snowfall and ice. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 351/16-1-2017 by MP Messinia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Dimitrios Koukoutissi to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the abolition of the PDO. Kalamata olives. 8. The question by No 348/16-1-2017 by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the resumption of the extension of the management plan for the Vinzotrat, which directly jeopardises the viability of the Greek seas. 9. The 328/10-1-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Research and Religious Education, about the education of the applicants. 10. The 319/9-1-2017 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios State, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the degradation - abolition of the Tychro Border Guard Division in Evros Prefecture. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 8/3-10-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr. Efstathiou (Stathhi) Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior about "falcons and chemicals that the Government teaches us what democracy means". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the eighth under the number 332-12-1-2017 topical question by MP Larissa of Potamio Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the completion of the projects in the Messochora of the Prefecture of Trikala. Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u2	Mr. Femmelle, midwife. The Arta Bridge has been moved a little more to the right on the map for many years. You'll only allow me two words to say what we're talking about. When we talk about the works of Messochora, the hydroelectric power station and the Messochora Dam, we are not talking about the diversion of Acheloos, as was the sign of all these works for many years. For too long - many years it has been separated. It's a dam and a hydroelectric station ready since 2001. The works have been completed. Even the procedures, reservations and objections to the Council of State related to environmental studies have been completed. At the moment, what is pending is the decision to approve the Environmental Terms, the famous GDPO, so that PPC can continue the few things it has to do and are mainly related to the damage of the projects and maintenance of the hydroelectric power plant, which has been closed for 15 years, so that the project can continue, start working. I have to say that PPC is currently losing around 30 to 35 million a year from the fact that the hydroelectric power station is not working. This has been going on for many years. In my opinion, it is of the utmost importance for the operation of the Greek state that this matter exposes the Greek governments and the Greek administration, as it has invested over half a billion euros only for the dam for the Mediterranean hydroelectric power station, which even today is not working even though it is complete. I repeat that it has nothing to do with diversions of water to the Peninsula basin, that is, to Thessaly. It is a purely hydroelectric power station and a project that is part of the Acheloos catchment basin without disrupting the course. So, as I said at the beginning, the Arta Bridge, known for all these years, is now in your hands. You don't have to sacrifice the protagonist's wife, as the song says, you need to put a signatory. So the main question is as follows: will you sign the decision approving environmental conditions so that PPC can proceed with the completion and operation of the Mezzogiorno station?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u3	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Famelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u4	Good morning, Mr Barriotta, ladies and gentlemen. It is true that Mr Bargiotas referred introductory terms to a symbolic theme for the region of Thessaly. In his question he begins with his observation that hydroelectric projects are usually considered as renewable energy projects abroad, and this project has been delayed due to ideas. I will agree, because the history of this work is indeed mythical, almost mythical, because it was not submitted as a work of renewable energy sources. It was indeed associated with ideas and was associated with the work of diversion of Acheloos, with the myth of Acheloos’ diversion. Of course it has also been linked to a period of delay - particularly for the region of Thessaly Kampos -, a delay in the rural economy, because it has been linked to a sterile, incorrect growth model, which over-consumes water and natural resources. At the same time, it is linked to a grid of customer relations across the area of agricultural production with fictitious subsidies, but they have given low added value, zero modernisation and restructuring and devaluation of knowledge in the rural area and eventually removal from the European acquis. It was this that also affected the work in this regard, if one is facing it on the part of renewable energy sources, because the main problems were no ideological problems, but European Union legislation and environmental legislation, because the project was promoted in the 1980s and ended - at least the existing body - in 2001, with a large number of appeals to the Council of State. I refer to 1994, 2000, 2005 and 2014, cancellations that I think you agree. From this point on, you find the wrong way, not only of developing the region of Thessaly Kampos but also of approaching a specific project, since even the laws on expropriations have been cancelled at least twice - and the last for the region has to tell you, No.3734/2009 - you have kept them inactive because of the 2014 decision of the Council of State and the requests for unit rates applied have been cancelled at the moment. We have many problems created by this wrong policy. I think you will agree with me that it has proved to be the time-consuming consequence of the proposals of the Left and of the ecology, because, together with the proposal of the Council of State of the European Union, we thought this work was a mistaken and hydroelectric error. In my opinion, therefore, in order to be clear, the medium-sized dam is a project which, as a hydroelectric project, is appropriate and necessary. It contributes to the production of energy from RES, reduces carbon dioxide emissions, meets the European strategy and contributes to flood protection. But where is the environmental discounts study you asked about? Finally, the study of environmental discounts was submitted in November 2014. In other words, when the project started in '86 the correct study, which is not linked to the diversion project, was submitted in November 2014 and additional information was submitted by at least 17 February 2016. To be accurate, the latest hydrology was submitted by PPC on February 17, 2016, to compare some delays. There are many opinions which may be made in the second phase of my reply to them. The important thing, however, is that the Forest Coordination and Inspection Directorate of your area of Thessaly has sent on 21 December the opinions of forest and forestry departments which are the last to come, where there is a need - something I do not know if it is familiar with you - the designation of expression under Article 14 of Law 998, of forest law, which has not yet been completed. Essentially to complete the environmental impact study, it also requires the stage of the designation of the enclosure area, which is the flooding zone of the dam, to be carried out on the basis of forestry legislation and is necessary, on the basis of Law 998, to complete environmental licensing. What I am asking myself and possibly you and the whole world there is this: why have not all this been done for thirty years? What was the idea of ideology, struggling, unilateral policy that led to an environmental project being incomplete both in terms of studies and in terms of political planning? I will then conclude, since I do not want to consume all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u5	Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u6	Minister, since we started with proverbs, I'm afraid we'll continue like this. The other is: "Whoever doesn't want to ferment, ten days sifting." You didn't answer. You replied that the dam is necessary and it has been distinguished. I'm not going into the history. I am not going to enter this debate on whether hydroelectric dams are renewable energy sources or not, because I consider it too obsolete and out of meaning, but we do not have time. If you want, we can have this conversation. I'm not going into the history. Historic is assured. There are many responsibilities. There are responsibilities on the left too. I can bring you and present you with a page here - an article of distinguished members of your party and MP at that time which, among other things, called for the punishment of those responsible, the collapse of the dam and various other unbelievable things. There is a term that goes back to my mind from an eminent professor of ecology in Greece: "Ecoterrorist". Many and great responsibilities have the inability of the political system in Acheloos and Messochora, and, if you like, the pharanonic perceptions of irrigation and diversion. However, the so-called 'eco-terrorists' also have the same great responsibilities as their exaggerations. To go back to the question, however, there is one particular thing here. There is a finished factory, which can produce energy and revenues of thirty-five million for PPC. There's a finished project. My experience tells me that despite what we have read and heard from at times about the dams from 'eco-terrorists', a visit to Megdova or the Thesaurus dam that suffered from such reactions, may answer what is ecological and what is not. One can see for oneself what these lakes do in the environment and how they affect local environments. I'll leave that, too. The question I came to answer - and I am waiting for the answer - is whether this environmental decision will be signed. There is nothing to go on, even the objections and the minor problems that exist in relation to the Messochori settlement at the completion of its town planning, even what you said about the completion of the designation if the GDP is not approved. PPC cannot go any further, it is not possible for local bodies to move ahead. I note once again that the Region of Western Greece, the Region of Thessaly and the local municipalities on either side of the ridge of Pindos have been calling for the completion of the work of the Mediterranean, regardless of the work of Sykia, Pykoftos and all the historical ones that has indeed been deserved. I do not think I have time to talk about it, since there are many and great responsibilities. The main question is: Will PPC proceed in 2018? It's PPC's footage and PPC's own statements. Can it start, complete the works? It has the twenty-five million, which it takes to sustain what is destroying time, sun and inappropriateness and to continue to exploit this plant. I want a simple answer. Is this signature coming in to keep the rest going and it's over?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u8	Acknowledging the concern of the region and the question of my fellow Member, I would like to say that precisely because we differ from all previous administrations, which our country has had, and because what we are interested in is actually working and solving problems, a 30-year-old project which literally travelled around because of deadlocked policies, also takes this road. So the reason why we were delayed a week was to solve the issue with the forest office in the area and with the forest management. Of course you did it for a press release. I wonder why. However, I will explain why. So, in our hands, we have a document from the Trikala Forest dated 25 January, which we asked for just to have a full answer, not to say 'it will be a characterisation', which clarifies - and we asked them to do so - that this week we contacted PPC, so that I would have an exact illustration of the extent of interest and that the necessary modifications and corrections were made to make the designation. Because, indeed, I repeat, since December 2015, it has been made clear that for the reservoir the opinion that the process of characterising the area is not something that follows the authorisation of environmental conditions, but precedes it. So, yesterday, we received this document on the Forestry, which confirms that they have printed the charts and the PPC side has cleared the issue of demarcation and scaling. So we have the correspondence in our hands to give you an integrated answer, which leads to the completion of the act of designation. And the question, of course, arises when is GDP issued? After completion of the act of designation, this will be done. We already have a plan to approve environmental conditions from the Ministry's environmental licensing department and we are also politically in favour of authorising a project, which is not linked to the project of diversion of Acheloos, but is linked to hydroelectric production and the resulting environmental protection elements. But you are asking us, and I have to say this, what is our position in appealing to the Council of State? It is the second part of your question. I would like to tell you, therefore, that the decision of the Council of State itself in 2014 was indicative. It clears for the project and the project is completely dismantled from the diversion and becomes purely hydroelectric. We are now in a phase of a review of the water resource management plans for river basins. The preliminary plans were already signed in 2016, so that we can have new studies on water resources in 2017. What does that mean, so we can all know? That while the design that the country had to complete in 2009, it completed it in 2015 with six years' delay, during this government period the revision, which was compulsory to end in 2015, would have been completed in mid-2017. We have actually won four and a half years of delay and the planning of water resources, which had been delayed. With regard to the preparation of a geotechnical study, which you mentioned that Mr Skourletis was commissioned at the beginning of the summer - if I am not mistaken - for the stability of the settlement does not add any delay to the geotechnical study. On the contrary, along with the forestry characterisation, it was necessary and not done. We, therefore, because it is a matter of citizens' safety, have commissioned and asked for a specific geotechnical study for the region. And the question, of course, beyond why it had not been done, is whether we all agree that the project will be carried out with the characterisation of the forest area and with the security of the settlement. Because this, let me say, was in doubt in the past and the inhabitants were asking for it. This is something that I will inform you next week we will discuss with all the actors in the region, who have been invited to the Ministry on their own initiative and at their request, to be precise, and with the Municipality of Pylis Trikalon, to see the issue of the security of the settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u9	At least it was unanimously agreed that it was a dangerous idea to divert Acheloos. We proceed to the fourth with number 373/23-1-2017, a top-level question by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the armoring of electronic transactions. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, electronic transactions are undoubtedly a means of service for both businesses and consumers, and will of course make a decisive contribution to tackling the problem of tax evasion if the necessary measures are taken, and if there are additional incentives for non-mandatory, as laid down by law. At the same time, however, with this desire of the state and all of us on the issue of electronic transactions, the phenomenon of fraud by scientists with specific methods is growing, in order either to avoid tax evasion for real transactions, or to pay an extra charge for transactions carried out and also for virtual transactions, and, of course, in the case of capital controls, to avoid the restrictions on capital movements. The number of frauds detected so far can be said to be not a great deal compared with total transactions. However, according to the survey and the information provided by the ESS, the National Confederation of Greek Trade, which worked with the Electronic Crime Directorate, has an accredited fraud transaction every eight thousand. In other words, in the total of thirty-thirty-three million transactions, we have about thirty thousand such transactions. The number seems small, but, apparently, it demonstrates and proves that there are methods of fraud, for which the state must take its measures. So you ask what you are going to do so that there is a shield of trade in order not to break down the confidence of consumers and businesses in this transaction method, which is necessary and which must be promoted. And secondly, what about these excessive charges by banks for businesses, but also for consumers? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u11	Mrs. Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, the adoption of the law on the extension of the use of electronic payment instruments through the creation of the duty-free limit for every citizen and the ministerial decisions that will follow - already signed and published the first decision determining the costs for which the use of electronic payment is required - consolidate our prospect of this innovation, which will lead to a reduction in tax evasion and an increase in state revenue. Today, in other European countries, we have the last example of Denmark - and they are seeing an impressive reduction in tax evasion by 30%, having started their efforts a few years ago. We follow them, always within the framework of Greek fiscal and trade behaviour. With regard to the first question, I would like to stress that in accordance with Article 4c of Law 2251/1994, for the protection of consumers, as recently amended by Article 56 of Law 4370/2016, the supplier is not entitled to impose charges on consumers for the use of a particular payment instrument. Therefore, additional charges in our daily transactions by electronic means of payment are prohibited. I am tabling a reply letter from the Secretariat-General for Trade and Consumer Protection on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy and Development, has ensured that electronic transactions are carried out safely in the daily life of the taxpayer. In particular, checks are carried out on electronic payment systems at POS with a view to protecting consumers and safeguarding the public interest. The competent authorities have been instructed to carry out certain on-the-spot prevention checks to verify the fulfilment of the tax obligations. Such instructions are requested to determine whether the controlled person engaged in an economic activity has POS, a payment card receipt machine installed by a foreign payment service provider and a statement of evidence of origin of the payment service provider. I also present two documents from the Directorate for Planning and Evaluation of Controls and Research, an Independent Public Revenue Authority. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In your second question, we have answered many times. The provisions of Regulation 2015/751 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on interbank commissions for card-based payment transactions, i.e. those imposed by card schemes on credit institutions and not on the level of the commission between credit institutions and their clients, whether consumers or businesses. In other words, the bank fee regulated by Regulation 2015/751 relates to that paid between different bank payment providers and does not relate to the bank’s invoice to traders and consumers. The bank's pricing policy is based on the principles of free competition, within the limits of the social acquis. I am also presenting for the Practical Documents of the Bank of Greece and the Secretary-General of the Association of Greek Banks. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll tell my dentures the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u14	Madam Minister, the issue I raise concerns the armoury of transactions rather than the introduction of electronic transactions into Greek law and the trade procedures. This has begun. There is too much that can be done to promote further, to give incentives. Most of all, however, security needs to be established, to know that the transaction is safe. Therefore, to what I have raised to you, which are identified problems for electronic transactions - both by the ERC and by other bodies and by the Directorate of Appeal of Electronic Crime - they should be dealt with. We cannot talk today about payment via POS and money going to a bank in Bulgaria, where we have tax evasion, tax evasion and avoidance of capital movements restrictions. There can be no e-commerce, and it really cannot be completed, especially with regard to e-commerce. So there is a need for concrete measures to be taken. I'll tell you a thought, for example, about the POS. Is it possible to move to the POS market, which are not certified, that there is no POS certification body and say that this is a free market? If that's possible! He won't run the state from behind to control. The certification of this should be carried out in advance. I say one of the many possibilities which exist to control things and to consolidate security in electronic transactions. For charging: Look, it cannot be in a country where capital controls have been imposed, i.e. a controlled system, where banks have become four and there is no competition anymore in the banking system, to invoke - and especially you, the so-called left - free competition. If that's possible! What free competition are you talking about when four banks with harmonised practices through the Association of Greek Banks - we are talking about fully harmonised practices, you are not controlling them - and you cannot intervene, there is no competition committee to control them? Have you imposed capital controls and are you talking about free competition? What freedom does the consumer have? You're giving him up to the banks and excessive charges. Look, you should bring in and legislate plaque to charges for consumers in electronic transactions. But with regard to the interbanks, to which you have referred, what you are saying is untrue. In the interbank transaction, i.e. if you personally want to transfer money from your account from the National Bank to another account - I have said it too many times - for example Eurobank, another person, the child or relative, the charge will be from both the National Bank a euro and Eurobank 3, 4, 5, 6 euros. That's what happens with all banks, not just the ones I said. And Piraeus and Alpha Vank do the same. This is charismatic, which is imposed due to the capital controls. So when you take necessary measures you will also have to protect consumers. You cannot invoke the free market. So, then, on both issues, I would ask you to have answers or, if you are not ready, at least to commit yourself to studying measures to shield electronic transactions and, of course, measures to protect consumers and traders through electronic transactions, that they will not be taken over by the banks. We are talking about millions of transactions, and this little overcharge is a huge amount.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. Mr Catherine Papanatziou, State Secretary for Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u16	First of all, I want to start with the last thing you said. Just you yourself admitted that the European Regulation 2015/751 concerns relations between banks. I return to the question of the armoring of electronic transactions. As I have said before, the instructions to the competent authorities, to the on-the-spot inspections workshops, still describe a procedure to the competent directorate of the DELED to create relevant reports, in order to take account of the other available data from TAXIS, to choose the cases between taxpayers, those who had foreign POS to carry out full tax control. Already, in cooperation with the Economic Police, the company's clientele, which was identified as supplying Greek companies with POS devices that cleared payment transactions with a foreign bank, while the contracts concerned were drawn up after the start of the capital controls, which is not permitted under the MIP ‘Urgent arrangements to establish restrictions on the taking of cash and transfer of funds’. The VDUs of these enterprises have been cross-checked with the TAXIS data in order to select assumptions for further checks. Also, during the summer period, as we have been informed by the competent authorities, in joint action with the Economic Police Department, extensive checks were carried out by the HSHR to detect POS that were clearing transactions abroad and during those checks the Economic Police identified such POS and seized them, and the HSHR office charged the tax infringements detected during the investigations and compiled information sheets sent by the Economic Police and for which the checks carried out have not been completed. In addition, this service is conducting investigations into the company's clientele, which have been supplied with POS machines that have cleared transactions outside the country, which are currently under way. As far as the supply component is concerned, it is in any event known that the collective market operators have concluded agreements with the credit institutions, which provide for a substantial total commission of less than 1%. It had started with 2%-2.5% and is currently much less than 1%. In accordance with the commitments we have made, we will reach agreement with the banks. We are already in this process in order to reduce supplies as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Prime Minister and President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, and hundreds of three Members of his party and the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Panos Kammenos and eight Members of his party, have tabled a proposal, in accordance with Rule 148 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to discuss the findings of the Committee of Inquiry on the lawfulness of lending to political parties, as well as of the owners of media companies from the country's banking institutions, submitted to Parliament on 25 January 2017. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs also submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the "Following the Protocol on the accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty". We are now going to the first with number 370/23-1-2017, a top-level question for the First Circuit of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotas Vranjas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the Hellenization of products of animal origin. Mrs. Vanja, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns the Hellenisation of products of animal origin. I must say that the problem is not only about products of animal origin, it also concerns plant products. However, I will concentrate my question on this. I'm just pointing it out, because it's important. Unfortunately, it is well known to all of us that production of products of animal origin has been showing a steady decline in the course of recent decades. I would point out, for example, that domestic production of pigmeat covers 35% of consumption, beef less than 20% and cow's milk only 23%. It is also worth noting that the value of imports of meat and milk products cost the country more than EUR 2 billion per year, which accounts for almost half of agricultural GDP or all of the annual payments received by Greek producers through the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). Unfortunately, and after the application of the Artemis business interconnection system, the expected results did not arise. Fraud and misunderstanding about the origin of the products remains extensive, with catastrophic results, both for Greek production and for the Greek consumer. Minister, the sale of imported products as Greek creates conditions of unfair competition and further compresses the already fierce or in a number of cases unexistent profitability of the Greek producer, leading the law-maker to economic extinction. It is clear that immediate measures must be taken to ensure the sustainability of rural businesses and to combat fraud and speculation at the expense of consumers. These measures must be included as a matter of urgency, as far as meat is concerned, in an electronic way to secure a reliable balance of inflow-out at each of the stages of the movement of meat and meat products and, of course, - I would like to insist - the immediate establishment of the compulsory registration of the country of origin in the meat business. At this time there is only compulsory labelling in the weighing machine. As far as milk is concerned, the reliability of the milk balance with effective controls on processing units and the cross-checking of data with the producer's crop declarations - I mean the IACC declarations - the intensification and stricter control of mixed control steps and the application of the penalties imposed. Also, the upgrading of the ARTEMIS system which has been extended to milk recently and the compulsory labelling - and here I would like to insist - of the country of origin of milk and milk products in the packaging. Minister, the consequences of the Greekizations are crucial to both production and the national economy in general. So you ask yourself whether you intend to take measures and what concrete steps to eliminate the phenomenon of Hellenism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u19	So do we. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I fully share the concern of my colleague about the criticality of the Greeks. I have already said in a speech to the House that most of the key issues, which concern livestock farming and, more generally, primary production, are those which unfortunately are not in the media. One of these very key issues is the Greekizations. And I will mention very briefly - as long as my first speech allows me - the things I'm trying to do right now. First of all, the Greekisations, at least as far as meat is concerned, do not only take place at the level of a shop. They start from the script, where we may have illegal animal intakes, which do a few days in the fold and are baptized greek. We have the follow-up at the slaughterhouse, and we have, of course, the retail trade, the meat shop. So if we take this whole line, this whole chain and see where we can intervene, I will say very briefly that our intervention will focus on three points. First of all, it is important to mark all the animals currently present in Greece. All animals should be labelled electronically, which is currently not spread everywhere. We have new technologies, we are discussing new technologies, such as signalling animals even in the bones, so that it is impossible to move electronic labelling. So the animals that will be brought to the slaughterhouse should all be marked. The second point we are fighting is that all the papers on animals going for slaughter, killing, electronically, are within "ARTEMIS". It's paperwork right now. So someone there who says for a hundred animals can add in front of the number ‘1’ and become a thousand hundred animals. This paper is lost somewhere, it doesn't go into the system, it doesn't go into the register, it's not controlled anywhere. Thirdly, of course - and I agree with you - is the writing of the origin of the meat in the cash machine. As far as milk is concerned, I know that a fight has been taken and won in the European Union. So far it has not been mandatory. You know that right now we could have Bulgarian milk, that goes to a cheese factory, the cheese factory producing cheese and the cheese being called Greek, precisely because the processing took place in Greece. That is what the European Union was saying in the directives. We are changing that today. We can now - and we are doing the necessary legislation, since the regulation has changed - make it compulsory for Greece to register the origin of the raw material, which has not so far been the case and has not been an infringement. Finally, in order not to get tired of my first speech, I will mention that at the moment we are significantly improving the "ARTEMIS" system and that is where the root of evil begins. This also means more electronic areas, which must be recorded, and more detail in the information and qualitative classification of meat. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. For example, today the consumer can see the word 'vote' - we do not all know the cleansing man - and think he is buying calves, while he is not a calf. It's a big animal, so another quality meat. Or we are not currently classifying the parts of the meat and this is causing very great damage to the producer. We must, of course, have - I said before - electronic access to the DAGs and, of course, we must have much better supervision than the central services. We're on a road and I'm stressing it. We're together. Last night, for example, incidentally - it was not about the question - I had the interprofessional meat in my office. Because inter-professionals are also a pillar of cooperation throughout the line, so that we can solve these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u21	Mrs Vanja, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. I understand from your answer, Minister, that you know this and you understand its seriousness. I would like to say, of course, that it is a request from the producers. It may not sound so much on the blocks, on their annual mobilisations, but it is a request from the real producers for years and that is why we urgently need to do something. That is precisely why, in wanting to make the scale of the problem very clear and its consequences, I will recall a few things, which I am sure you know, but I think it is important that they be heard within the Greek Parliament. The course of self-sufficiency for the country in terms of meat products from 1980 to 2010 is dramatic. From 84% it falls to 53%. This is the period after our accession to the EEC at the time. Therefore, imports increased. 1986 was at 30.8% and 2010 reached 47.7% when the industry's exports remained and remained at very low levels. As far as milk is concerned, according to the 'ELGO' figures in 2016 it was probably produced - and I will explain what I mean by the possibly - five hundred thousand tonnes of cow milk when consumption was a million thousand tonnes. Of course, all this encourages some to mislead consumers and speculate at their expense. Just as you said, 80% of Greek beef consumers in a recent survey have shown that they are consuming Greek calves when we have only 20% adequacy. Of course, the picture is still going on at the retail points, where all the meat is labelled as local meat, when we also know that this is not possible. It is understandable, therefore, that consumer misinterpretation is the rule and not the exception. It is also worth noting that with fifteen thousand farms around the country, hundreds of slaughterhouses, thousands of farmers and merchants the checks of mixed scales in 2014 reached the thousands of three hundred fifty-four and in 2015 the thousand four hundred-seven. On the basis of the information available, from all of these checks - and I will mention exactly what I have to say - 'all good' has only been mentioned in four hundred and thirty cases. Fines were eventually imposed in two hundred and thirty-seven cases, totalling EUR 76,650. In other words, it is obvious that the fines imposed are zero compared to the profit obtained by those who are illegal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need one more minute, Mr President. Of course, it is not just a lack of controls, corruption and impunity in the stages of trafficking. A large part of the problem, as you have said, starts from the production stage and the state itself. It is common secret that the livestock declared today is quite different from what really exists. Unexistent animals, apart from the other problems they create - subsidies, grassland, etc. -, they also serve to a large extent the circuits of the Hellenizations. On the other hand, it is really difficult to explain why two state-owned organisations, namely "ELGO - PIMITRA" and the Greek Statistical Authority, show completely different information about the quantity of milk imported and produced in the country, to the extent that sometimes one gives twice as much information as the other. Minister, I believe that one of the reasons why the country is today at the highest level of international capitalism through lenders, partners and bankers is because it has been unarmed, relaxed and tolerant in the past to a smaller scale of fraudsters and blackmailers. The previous governments did not only confront such phenomena, but instead they encouraged them in some cases and were in contact with those who created them. The capital of Hellenism is, in my opinion, one of these cases and I think it is a serious issue, which can be resolved easily, quickly and fairly and to have immediate positive results for the Greek producer and the national economy. It is an opportunity to put the mark of our own government and to prove that we are not all the same, as long as we dare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Chironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. You really pointed out the problem where it existed. I would like to start from what you said at the end, that unfortunately the most obsolete and subordinated services and the Greek public, at least from my little experience, are the inspection services. As I said to the previous ministry, the Ministry of the Environment, and here we have this phenomenon. We have too few people to "feel" really - quite rightly you said - to "feel" the one who is illegal. When you catch him, it's so rare the case and so little the fines that he really prefers to have that risk and to be illegal. So right now we need to focus on two issues. We are also in a consultation with the Ministry to tighten the penalties, but I think the most economic thing is what I said before: prevention. In other words, the electronic register of the whole movement, so that the other can't be outlawed and not wait until the check comes in to check it out. As far as the market share is concerned, it was indeed our market - as you rightly said - a clear vine. A customer regime dominated the primary sector, was not interested in the viability of products, was not interested in the influx price, in order for our companies to be viable and competitive. So let me tell you a big problem, since you mentioned it, so that the viewers and viewers who are watching any of them, namely, our fellow citizens, can understand that they have now entered the market - and this is the period especially when you mentioned and it is not just the period when the European Union does not exist - the countries of the former Eastern bloc. They are countries that had a very low standard of living, a very good organisation, a very good level of education and therefore, easily and quickly, have created a market with very cheap prices. These products are flooding, because it is not accidental to talk about Poland and Bulgaria all the time. We can't keep abducting the neighbors, they're supposed to always be illegal. They're not illegal at all. Many times these products are legally imported and then simply Greekised. So the problem is twofold. However, you have - and I will close with this - quite rightly say that the Greek consumer, despite the fact that there is a slight difference in price, trusts quality and trusts the end product, even in crisis conditions. So, if we hit Greekism, it is clear that we will also reduce the cost, because we will increase the consumption of Greek meat, but, at the same time, we will be able to give a boost to the Greek economy from this increase in demand from not being cheated on by the consumer. We're on this road and I think we've already made a difference. Last year all the statistics show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. It is enough to replace 'if' by another word. I would like to inform the House that the second question, number 368/20-1-2017, is not going to be discussed in the context of the second-round question of the Athens Parliament of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerning the irresponsibility of Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace. Also, we will not discuss the second question with number 364/20-1-2017 in the first cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Tourism, about the lack of secondary and specialised processing of arrival data, which creates a false and inaccurate picture of our tourism due to the absence of ministers abroad. Likewise, the third question under number 369/23-1-2017 will not be discussed in the context of a topical question by the Deputy Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jelloni to the Minister of the Interior, concerning measures to be taken for the Subordinated Police Directorate of Serres, due to the absence of Mr. Toskas. For the same reason, the ninth is not going to be discussed under number 339/13-1-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of MP II Athens of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the terrorist attack by kalashnikov against men of MATs. Also, we will not discuss the seventh with number 341/16-1-2017 a topical question by MP 2 in Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of PPC users to companies of alternative electricity providers due to the absence of Mr. Tsakalotos abroad. However, the fourth, with number 334/13-1-2017, is now going to be discussed in the context of a topical question by the New Democracy MP, George Styliou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning action to deal with avian influenza. Mr. Stylus has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there are plenty of reports of measures throughout Europe to deal with the deadly and particularly contagious H5N8 strain of the avian influenza virus. In recent years cases have occurred in Romania, Croatia, Serbia and neighbouring Bulgaria. Recently, in a wild-swan bird found dead in the area of Evros - case of H5N8 strain confirmed. In particular, in the border regions of Greece, which are gateways, appropriate measures must be taken to avoid spreading the disease. The ministry's services have invited you to be alert to the veterinary services of the country. However, it is questionable whether the appropriate directives have been transposed to final recipients. Since then, there has been a disturbance in farmers who do not have adequate guidance on the actions they should take to prevent the spread of the fatal disease to their farmed birds. In view of the above, you ask, Minister: Is there an updated plan to prevent the spread of the deadly disease to farmed birds? Which mechanisms to monitor the application of all the biosecurity measures envisaged? Is there an emergency plan in your ministry in case of a general outbreak of avian influenza in poultry holdings? Given that it is likely that the virus may be mutagenic and human transmission of strains, what measures do you intend to take and what timetable? Is there any cooperation on this topic with the Ministry of Health? Is there an updated joint action plan and what action does it include? Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u27	And we thank you, in fact, for the time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, you are raising a very important issue, Mr Colleague. However, I would like to begin with a statement, so that we do not have the phenomena of the previous time, which have badly damaged our livestock farming. Influenza H5N8 is not transmitted to humans. There is no threat to public health. There must be no fear of citizens consuming these products. It's a pure zoonosis. It is, as you have said, very dangerous to birds themselves, but there is absolutely no danger to humans and to highlight the panic of the previous time, which the previous flu, H5N1, which was actually contagious to humans, has very little to do with birds, and yet this great panic and a huge economic damage, which had nothing to do with the real danger. So a request, because I have seen that your question is too precise and I thank you for that: No one who hears us think that there is at present any risk to public health. In continuing now, I would like to say that our ministry has taken all the necessary measures. Our owners are aware. We've really organized the whole plan right now. The only case we have in a unit, apart from the wild birds controlled, mainly in the Evros Delta, in eastern Macedonia - Thrace, but we do not have overruns in poultry establishments, is in Tripoli, in the area of Arcadia. We're not reassured. We have already developed a plan, and indeed, in order to prevent evil, we are currently planning the ministerial decision, with which the alarm will be extended to all of Greece. Because, you know, the problem here is that it's transmitted by migrating, which means they're carrying it by flying. So it doesn't mean that because the case is now in Tripoli, the next one will be near there. Maybe the next one is somewhere far away and you know it very well. So all our farmers will take the measures, because the previous alarm in the past two weeks only concerned the two kilometres of belt from where the case was. Now, in order to catch up, we are going all over Greece now. Now, as far as the possibility - if it is unlikely, but biochemicals - of the mutation of the virus and the creation of a new strain that can be a disease for humans - is unlikely that the safety and policy that we are pursuing are those who are involved in poultry farming and controls to make the vaccine H5N8, not because they are in danger of being ill with this disease, but because they are not likely to in their body of such a rare possible mutation. Therefore, if those involved with the virus are vaccinated, this risk is nullified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u30	Minister, I am of the philosophy and of the opinion that it is better to prevent it than to cure it. So I would like to clarify a few things that have not been answered and put to the first part of my question. I asked whether there was an updated plan, because I know that the previous plan was with birds' disease, which occurred in 2008. So, since then, because technology and science have been evolving, a more up-to-date plan will be what will help us to be much more modern and much more effective. I also asked whether there are implementing mechanisms for monitoring all biosecurity measures planned. How will the ministerial decision, which you will make, or will you know that it is implemented and will we have the preventive measures to be taken and the security that we want? I would also like to clarify this: do you have a communication, a cooperation, with the Ministry of Health? I would also like to ask the following question: have you raised this matter in the European Commission? Has there been a question of funding in case we have large livestock losses to farmers and others? You mentioned a case in Arcadia, Tripoli. I have here a post - and I want to present it in the Minutes - from the voria.gr website, which refers to the swan of Evros. I have a post from the ifeimerida.gr, which refers to the decision by the veterinary services of the Region of Epirus to take preventive measures in relation to this virus. I also have a post on the SKAI website and a number of other publications from Arcadiaportal.gr. So I expect, Minister, that - and I would like to present all this to the Minutes - there will be a quicker, better way of dealing with this issue, so that we do not have to build a house and go and give the compensation after it is broken down. What do I mean? I mean, already in neighbouring Bulgaria, according to my papers, over four hundred thousand domestic birds have been destroyed and this has cost over $500,000. So I'm saying it so we don't have to pay. But if it is necessary, have you contacted the European Union to ensure that there is funding? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Chironi, do you have anything to add?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u32	Yes, Mr. President. First of all, I have already said that the plan is up-to-date and contains all these measures that you have mentioned. First of all, it includes the rapid dispatch to the European Union of all the signs where the disease has been present at the moment in our country. So we have a lasting communication. This information goes to our producers, but also to those who have domestic animals and are notified, where necessary, to the relevant regional authorities, so that there is a regular update. Our farmers right now know the routine to follow. They want to protect their animals, and for this we are in constant contact with them. In fact, a committee has been set up since 12 January, which does precisely the work you mentioned. On the other hand, I repeat that we have already made progress in something that is not necessarily necessary, but is done to neutralize the risk of virus mutation. Already at the moment, people involved in this activity are being vaccinated for H5N8: veterinarians, farmers. We have, in other words, moved to this phase, so that the virus does not spread even from people who do not get sick. From there on, obviously, as I have already said, the quarantine, containment and mandatory stagnation of all birds, so that they are not out and cannot come into contact with a sick animal, it is already extended and within the next few days it will be extended throughout Greece. I hope we have prevented evil. We saw what happened to the neighbouring countries. We're in front of the problem. The measures we are taking at the moment are much more stringent than what the situation in Greece requires. In Greece, I tell you, we have few birds that have been infected. But, as you quite rightly said - and I fully agree with you - we do not take measures on the basis of what we have, but on the basis of what has happened to our neighbours. We're taking purely preventive measures. The last thing you mentioned was whether we are now communicating with the European Union about possible compensation in the event of an epidemic. The European Union in these things has very specific routines. This disease is a disease that is in the European Union's texts. There are specific forecasts. Personally, I haven't done any kind of damages yet, because to do this, you know we have to have cases. I think it is inappropriate to go and tell them what we will do if it happens. That, as you quite rightly say, which is right at the moment, is to catch up with the evil. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and schoolchildren and five educational attendants from the 1st Drapetsonas High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The eleventh question will now be discussed under number 343/16-1-2017, a topical question by the Member of the Lesvos Parliamentary Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the compensation to 100% of the farmers and farmers of Lesvos for the great damage to snow and ice. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the damage caused by the last snow on 11 January came to be added to the major disasters caused by the floods at the end of November. Animal, plant capital, infrastructure, facilities, has been destroyed, but production has also been reduced to those that survived. If one goes and tours in areas of Lesvos, one will see that especially in mountainous tumors in southern Lesvos, Olympus and northern Lesvos, in Lesvos, the disasters are huge. Almost all the olive trees have broken branches of the snow, the olives in too many cases have been sprinkled, i.e., they have cooled down, ceilings of flocks and the flocks have been destroyed, which have been decayed and animals, which have died either from flattery or from cold. The milk production of those who survived has fallen to 50%. It is reasonable, of course, that farmers and farmers are required to compensate for all losses to livestock, livestock, infrastructure and lost production. This complaint I was hearing from everyone was that the ELGA, while taking the contributions to them - and now it is known that if they do not pay contributions, they are going to tax, so they cannot avoid paying them - whether it does not compensate them at all or partially compensate them. The question, then, is this: What will you do to make the assessment of damages directly and to compensate for 100% of the damages suffered in plant, livestock, infrastructure and lost production in Lesvos farmers and farmers?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I share, Mr Colleagues, the interest and I stress that the damage is, in fact, too great, and that is why the Ministry - to start again at the end - already these days has issued a call for exceptional recruitment provided for by the law. Don't start some liberals telling us that we appoint our own children by judging by ourselves. This must be done, precisely so that we can get regular compensation. So as far as ELGA is concerned, I will tell you that when we received him, the compensation was overdue. Last year the payments were made about seven months. I'm not saying it's the ideal thing, but I know there's a process to see the damage after it's done. In this case we are fighting - and we will be judged here and here we are a few months later - that the compensation for these disasters will not exceed the four-month period. It's a battle. It's a difficult battle, because you know that ELGA isn't a service we received rose. It was a black hole with billions of deficits with a terrible black money spread. You know them and you have said them several times before. You were the party that you really fought on. At least now that we're talking about ELGA is a healthy organism. At least he is the famous "multiple". And here I am making it clear - and to tell rural women and farmers - that I wish only one to pay and never get. Because you know very well, those who have lived in production, that the damage you suffer is not only the damage that the other one will compensate you, but also the declining damage, it's the loss of the time of production, which means that whatever you get when you get a damage, unfortunately, this is not made up. There is also, in addition to ELGA and measure 5.2, the European Union, which refers precisely to such natural disasters. So we activate that money too. Finally, to close, there are also PSEA, the Emergency Programmes, which, of course, are not within our competence, but within the competence of the regions and which do exactly what you have said. Which one do they do? The immediate compensation, at that time, when there is an emergency, when a prefecture has been declared in an emergency situation that ELGA would do. The ELGA cannot make instant compensation, but is at least looking after the relief of people in emergency need. We are already trying to relieve people in Neuroscope - we are in contact with them - who are twenty days in the snow, excluded. So that's where something has to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u36	So do we. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u37	Minister, the problem, as you know very well, is more general and concerns the survival of the small and medium-sized farms, which, unfortunately, the policy of successive governments and your own government, of course, in agreement with the European Union, leads to its being dismantled. The day before yesterday, when we had the debate here, in the House, on agriculture, I think the Prime Minister was consciously lying - because I cannot say that he ignored it - that 95% of farmers are saying income below EUR 8 500 and therefore exempted from tax. He knows very well that this is not the case for all farmers, it is only for the main-professional farmers, who are only 1/3 of the eight hundred farmers, who are currently receiving some form of subsidies. So this EUR 8 500 tax is only about two hundred and seventy thousand farmers. The rest of the five hundred so many are to be sorted out. Because they will not only pay 22% tax from the first euro, plus, of course, insurance contributions, which reach 70% of their income, either in taxes or in contributions, but also have to accept reduced subsidies. So they are going to be dismantled, that is to say, sold to the big farmers, capitalists, who will have large business, capitalist units. That is the problem, and here I will also present a resolution from the Lesbos farmers, who met in Calloni the other day. I was, and I attended their gathering and they gave me their resolution. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Tassos, presents for the minutes this resolution, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The demand for farmers is, firstly, that there be direct compensation for damages, what we have said before. Furthermore, the introduction of a tax-free 12 000 euros for all farmers and, from there on, a progressive tax of up to 45% on the big farmers, will give them duty-free oil. You have the shipowners with fifty-six tax exemptions, you give them tax-free oil and farmers no tax-free oil. For the shipowners even the whiskey they drink in their yachts is free of charge. Mercy! A shipowner with one and a half million incomes pays 10,000 euros a tax, because this is so much what goes on board, because taxation is done according to locations. It is not possible, that is to say, they - and, of course, they - are not the small and medium-sized ones - to serve the profitability of large capital. And that is a conscious choice you and the European Union are making, of course, which is the one that, in any case, gives the pace to these cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u38	Restrict yourself to the question, Mr Tassos, because you have been extended.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u39	Therefore, in addition to the immediate compensation for farmers, you must also take measures to strengthen - if you really want what you are saying - small and medium-sized farms.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u41	Mr Colleagues, I am pleased that in your second language you have responded politically, because it shows at least that, as far as the technical part of the compensation is concerned, we are probably doing well and my answer has covered you. So since you're making a political position, I'm going to make a political position. First of all, the numbers you say are not exactly what you say. First of all, when one has another main profession and it is the farmer's second profession, it would be disequal to his colleagues, if he is a groceryboat to the rest of the grocery stores, if he had that favor, because he is a farmer. So here you are opening an issue, which I am prepared to discuss, even though it is not my responsibility, but it does not, as you can see, fit in this debate. You know in tax, and we know that they themselves are protesting, because I am there every day with farmers and we are talking. A while ago, in Lesvos, we were accused of the opposite of what you accused us of, namely that we favour the young man who doesn't care to grow his production - the well-known neoliberal logic - and he sits at the cafeteria. But he doesn't sit, you know it, and I know it. On the contrary, the great pillar of the economy makes 800,000, 100,000, we beat him. We cannot say on the one hand that we are hitting the big one and on the other hand hitting the little one. What's the truth? Not that much of a contradiction. Farmers know. When they take the IRS paper home in a few months, they'll understand who's telling the truth and who's lying. I have to point out something, because you are always working against the European Union, and you know very well that what you are asking for subsidies - and they are people on the streets for these subsidies - are European Union funds. Turn-over, change it. I have charged her with several times. It's not what I want, but it's a great supranational entity that can resist the multinationals, and no country individually can, you know it and I know it. I'll say something else to close. We talked earlier about the intense weather phenomena and said it was better to prevent it than to cure it. So I remind you that in this Chamber, we were together again when I told you that climate change is here, it will hit us now. Now climate change is hitting us. We won't expect when socialism will come to heal her. Suddenly you tell me that we had a cyclone in Elias this year, a goddess in Achaea, a great disaster. The intense weather phenomena, which are scientifically proven, strike today and strike who? They strike the poor and the weak, not only the poor and weak Greek, but the poor and weak countries. So I told you to have an alliance so that we could defend ourselves against the phenomenon that we have here and now, you told us that this cannot be done in conditions of capitalism. We'll wait when socialism comes to cure the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u42	Are you telling us these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u43	Unfortunately, however, for our farmer, we now have the naturality, and we now had to deal with it, because these phenomena will be intensified. I told you then. You remember her talking and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u44	The third, with number 91/5-10-2016, question by Vice-President of Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Migration Policy, about the program to rent apartments for refugees from the Athens Development and Tourism View Society (ETA) will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Mousala abroad. The third, with number 367/20-1-2017, the first question of the Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the "inadmissibility of the displacement of thirty-six thousand seventy-sixteen Greek children from day-to-day stations", will not be discussed because of Mr. Skourletis' obstruction. The seventh question under number 363/19-1-2017 will be discussed in the first cycle of the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of the Athens Parliament Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Economy and Development regarding the authorisation of sanitary shops. Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know that under paragraph 2 of Article 28 of Law 4442, in order to obtain a health leave at a shop in which it is requested, authorisation is required by the Head of the relevant municipal authority, whose region the shop is to operate, attesting that the activity in question can operate in that place. In order to obtain that certificate, the competent authority of the municipality must, in advance, investigate existing land use and other restrictions and issue the certificate within 15 days of the submission of the relevant application and, if the time limit referred to above has elapsed, shall be deemed to have been granted. That's well known. On these footsteps of articles and paragraphs we are moving forward. On the basis of the debate I have had with the Citizen Movements in areas where such activity is developed and, in particular, with the particularly active Citizens' Movement of Kolonakis, where recently there has been a growing number of sanitary shops, there is an objection as to whether it is easy or can or can be effective for the relevant municipal authority to carry out this task, in the sense that it is an administrative agency which does not have legal education. So it is extremely difficult to interpret multi-household regulations, land use in the area, so that it can provide such a certificate. There is, therefore, an objection to this matter. And also, the citizens' movement, by which I have been in contact and I have taken the relevant elements, considers that the joint ministerial decision, which is to be adopted, could indicate that there is a need, but it is sufficient, for a responsible statement to be made to this service by the manager of the building or the owner of the premises in which this particular store is to be installed, stating that the regulation of the building or if there is no regulation, the majority of the owners of the apartments in the building, does not prohibit the use in this area of such a health-care store. Perhaps the citizens are saying - and I would like your answer, in order to facilitate this debate - bureaucratic stiffness could perhaps be overcome, which, in their view, is due to the fact that it is not particularly possible for the relevant municipal authority to investigate these issues. In my denture I'm going to tell you a few other things, but I think these are the basics. And thank you in advance, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Haritsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lykoudis, you will allow me to say that I do not like very heavy expressions, but in this particular case, about No 4442/2016, which we voted on just some time ago, in November 2016, we can talk about a reform section. And why can we talk about a reform incision? Apart from any individual provisions and provisions of this law, the philosophy of the licensing process changes. In other words, we are going through an ex ante authorisation procedure through bureaucratic and time-consuming procedures which, if you like, have made it difficult to operate and license businesses, but also to protect the public interest, in a process which involves the authorisation of real business to operate in ex post - that is, an ex post licensing procedure - which takes into account precisely the way in which it operates in real conditions and not in circumstances which, on the basis of bureaucracy, were virtual. That is what we think is an important part of this which will enable businesses to operate in an economic environment more favourable to them. In relation to the question you are asking about the sanitary shops and the powers of the municipalities, I think this is a matter that we discussed during the consultation of the bill in the relevant committee of Parliament, but you will allow me to repeat a few things we have said there. The authorisation issued by the Committee on Quality of Life, from which it has so far been granted by an institution, namely an ad hoc procedure, which, if you like, often did not follow a formal licensing procedure. The important element, however, is that the elected representatives of the municipality remain responsible for the planning and coordination of the entire authorisation procedure in their area of responsibility, within the limits of their municipality. In the position of pre-approval, however, precisely to have a procedure which is technically sound, objective and transparent, we move forward with the procedure followed and for which it is responsible and responsible, which, in any case, was the service which was introduced to the City of Life Quality of the Licensing Board. It does not, therefore, change the character and workload of this service. What is changing is that from the mere introduction we now proceed to the completion of the procedure by the competent authority itself, in an administrative and objective way and not, of course, with the subjectivity that a procedure often entails by a elected body. In relation to the question of the documents and supporting documents which are being submitted, I should like to say that, as provided for in the relevant law, the procedure for adopting the relevant joint ministerial decision by the co-legislative ministries is now in progress. With regard to the justification that will be required for the establishment of a health store in a building, in fact, if there is a regulation of the building, as you have mentioned in your question, and as you have just said, a responsible statement will be required that the regulation does not prohibit the operation of a health service. In the absence of such a regulation, various proposals are currently being considered. The proposal you have tabled is among them too. Of course we are also open to other proposals which can also be submitted by the institutions and by the Civil Society, who are interested in this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Minister. You have your dentistry, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of ENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, sixteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Agios Ioannis Rendi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Spyridon Lykoudis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u49	Minister, I think that from the contents of the question, but also from the way in which the question was presented, you realise that the only thing I do not pursue is to develop conflicts. On the contrary, I would like to say to you that I doubtless agree with you that it has been attempted in this House - with all of us and all - a piece of legislation that deals with issues that have not been settled in the past. The question is to see whether there are sides that we need to see again and whether there are issues that we need to do better. That's the point. Look, I'll tell you something you understand. First let's start with an admission. Our people are a people in social terms. People want to meet, be in places where they can entertain, talk or spend time in their free time. We're such a people. We're not a people locked in his homes. However, this does not mean that a city which needs to be inhabited and where crafts and professions will be developed must feel the great burden only on this side of society, that is, the one that is related to centres of health interest. That's clear. We have to catch up, because people obviously need to get out of their homes, but they want too much, and when they live in their homes to stay in their homes and not to continue to be in the centres of health interest, thinking they have gone to their homes. That's an admission that I think we're all making. I know there are attempts being made. Yesterday - I do not know how government powers are being regulated - good friend Costas Poulakis, the Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, told me that he was dealing with the issue and that he has been in contact with citizens' movements. So we are in a process in which many things can be solved. But I would also like to point out something if there were any answers. The notification of this procedure shall be carried out exclusively through the Integrated Exercise System referred to in Article 14. But I think - I suppose you know - that it has raised objections to local government agencies regarding its implementation. Honestly, I am not the best person to tell you what aspects are being challenged by the self-government bodies. But I would like you to tell me, if you know, how problems can be overcome that are posed by self-government bodies. Finally, I close by repeating what I said at the beginning. I'm a man I was born and grew up in Athens. I live, I know her, and I love her like a city. There's a matter. How can we make Athens not a dark city? I get caught in my heart when I go up the University and Stadium at night. Athens wasn't like that when I was young. Today are two dark roads. I don't want Athens to be like this. But, at the same time, we must see how the people of Athens, along with the need to socialize their interests, can experience Athens and in their homes, that is to say, they can sleep at some point. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u50	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Lykoudis, I will agree with everything you have said in your dentistry. First of all, I think that this is not just a rhetoric - that this was reflected in the effort we made on the last day of the vote on the bill in plenary now, when we tabled legislative improvements, which had taken into account, precisely the debate that had already taken place in the committee and in the consultation of the bodies, so that we could incorporate comments and comments which, in fact, were moving in a proper direction and which helped us to strengthen the correctness of the draft law. In this sense, therefore, this dialogue has proved to be very constructive. Of course I have said and then that this is a dynamic process. We are talking about a bill, which is evolving and implemented over time and progressively, so it is also subject to improvements, when and wherever necessary. Of course we are and always remain open to proposals for improvement. I also agree with you that we cannot discuss, especially when we are talking about businesses and shops of health interest, about business, which is on the opposite side or, if you wish, in the public interest, which in this particular case is expressed by the right of citizens to live in peace and in conditions of, say, home peace. This is an inalienable right and a constitutionally guaranteed right for citizens and no one can remove it from them. That is where we need to find a balance, between the possibility of developing such activities and, of course, of defending the quality of life of citizens. We believe that this is achieved by this draft law, by means of the specific regulations, which are the subject of the procedures for issuing licences. Of course, because secondary legislation is now being prepared and in preparation, every proposal is acceptable for discussion on further improvements. Now in relation to the Integrated Information System you mentioned, I would like to say this. The Integrated Information System for Activity and Control, the OPS - AIA, is a very basic provision of the law, a very basic reform element of the law, because it enables us to fully digit this entire licensing process. Even more important is the fact that, through this digitisation, systems that record the processes and operations that are licensed, communicate, operate with other relevant public sector systems and such systems as TAXIS, such as GEMI. So red tape is being removed, if you like, and problems that have been experienced in the past by opaque and external interventions in all licensing procedures. We think it is a system which has been dealt with by most of the stakeholders too positively. There are, of course, issues where we need to see, in relation to the interim situation, until the implementation of this instrument is fully implemented. We're dealing with this. After all, the law provides for them. There is therefore provision for substitution and for a smaller information system which is smaller for this interim period. We believe that the introduction of this regulation on the Integrated Information System will speed up the licensing procedures and allow for full transparency in the collection and recording of the respective data and for communication with the competent services of other public bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty students and students and an educational meeting from the 3rd Elementary School of Alimos, the home of Thucydides. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The thirteenth question will be discussed with number 320/9-1-2017, the second question of the new Republic MP, Ioannis Antoniadis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the progress of the projects and studies on the 5th EPA (ESDP) in the Florina Prefecture. Mr. Antoniadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, before entering the point of view of the current situation, I would like to condemn the unsatisfactory and unacceptable statements by the new President of the European Parliament about the matching of the history of Macedonia and the Great Alexander with Skopje at a recent visit. The man is unbelievable and dangerous. And I come to the essence of the timely question. Minister, Florina Prefecture is a champion in unemployment at the level of northern Greece and not just. Farmers are despaired with low prices of milk and cereals and high production costs. Businesses close one after the other, the lignite mines have ceased their operation, so that hundreds of families have lost their jobs, PPC - lignite and the thermal power plants are in complete depreciation, turning the area into really burnt land. The private sector is completely derelict and is in collapse. At the moment, when the state could support the local economy and create jobs by building various public projects, infrastructure projects through various programmes, such as the 5th ETUC and the Public Investment Programme, we find with regret that in the Florins Prefecture there is not a single project. In view of the above, the Minister asks, firstly, whether there is even a project currently carried out through the Fifth EPA or the Public Investment Programme in Florina. Secondly, if there are mature proposals for projects by local bodies, the Municipality of Florina, Amyntai and Prespes, and the Region of Western Macedonia and other bodies? And thirdly, are there any studies being carried out by the government, or are there even proposals for studies? I'm stopping here and I'm going to go on with my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Haritsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Antoniadis, I think we will agree that the effort being made to make use of all the financial instruments has two basic elements. The first is, of course, to deal with the consequences of the crisis of the last six to seven years and the problems that this crisis has added to the country as a whole but also to local society, as is the Florina society. But there is also a second problem, which has to do with structural pathogens of the productive system and the way in which the production system and the previous periods were established, i.e. pre-crisis periods. So the effort made by both the new ESDP and the Public Investment Programme, the development law and the new financial instruments that we have created, is just trying to respond to both of these parallel, simultaneous challenges. Now to come specifically to your question about the Florina Prefecture, a total of EUR 195 million from the Public Investment Program, the co-financed and national part of the Public Investment Programme, is being implemented for the Florina County. To these, of course, we also need to add projects that are implemented at the regional level and which are diaspora, that is, they cover more than one county and which have a total budget of EUR 316 million. An important part of this will, of course, be tabled in the Prefecture of Florina. And I refer to anti-military projects, waste management projects, etc. As far as the Region of Western Macedonia is concerned, which is, in fact, a region with many specific and many problems and, let me say, imbalances in production and income, intra-regional, was the forecast in 2016, the resources of the national part of the Public Investment Programme increased by 150%, from EUR 4.6 million to EUR 11.5 million. With the forecast in the 2017 budget for a total increase in the Public Investment Programme - brave growth for the first time after a decade - from 750 million to 1 billion euro, we are, of course, given the opportunity to further increase the funds from the National Public Investment Programme for all regions of the country, for all regions and, above all, for regions with the problems of the Florina Prefecture. Now in relation to development law, you will allow me to say that, as you know very well, aid rates from the regional aid map are being drawn up and set at European level. From there on, however, it should be clear that from 1-1-2017, which applies to the revised regional aid map, the percentage for the region of Western Macedonia has increased from 15% to 25%. In fact, the Florina Law is intended to belong to those specific categories of aid for the new development law, which we voted on last May, in order to benefit from the favourable incentives that the law gives in the context of the regional aid map. In my dentistry, I'm going to come back with more evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u56	Here, Mr. Antoniadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u57	Minister, I would like to make three observations and three proposals. Paradoxical first: In Florina, at the moment has a measure of snow, when in thirty-five kilometers away from there there is no snow trace, with everything that means, damage to roofs, businesses, rural facilities. Paradoxical second: The schools of Florina take the same for operating expenses as the schools of Athens and Crete, the same money for oil, for heating, when the boilers get there from September and winter in Athens comes in January. I come to the most important thing about the timely, paradox third, which has to do with the ESDP. In Florinna, right now, under our feet, there is a wealth of 30 billion. It is lignite and electricity produced with PPC factories. For decades all this power, all this wealth spread across Greece, has contributed to growth and ultimately to civilisation throughout Greece, the region has taken nothing, the people are poor and unemployed and the worst of all what are they? That, not only, it has taken nothing, but it loses every decade, because this wealth is charged to us plastically, we seem rich, we belong to one of the three wealthy regions of the country and we lose funds from the NRP for infrastructure, from the NRP programmes to combat unemployment, from the development law, which you have done very well and mentioned and we will then see it and I do not mention it. The state's coming to say what? Indeed, these are planned by the European Union. But can't the state, at least part of the damage, cover it from the Public Investment Programme? The three proposals are as follows: Florina is the only county - and I am ashamed of that, because we both have responsibility for all governments and all the local players - as fifteen counties embrace Egnatia and the fifteen counties have a vertical connection, and Florina does not have a vertical axis. So while we designed the vertical axis, which costs 400 million, because of a crisis, we left it and come to the vertical axis that is a curve, even the one, which costs 150 million. So we ask you - the region has taken on the study, not from the Public Investment Programme - to commit 150 million from the EWRS from this summer at least, to this project. It's one of them without them. That is to say, with the lignite mines closed and with this vertical axis not being done and with this winter there will be a revolution with all the problems that exist. The university departments with the wrong policy take them from Florina and take them to Thessaloniki, which has eighty thousand students. I mean, things crazy, they can't stand thinking. So we will ask you in private, plus two other mature projects. It's the street Florina - Prespecies. It's been ready for five years, ready study. For a distance of 50 miles, you're doing an hour and a half. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And one final, also paradoxical: the Trinity dam has been finished for two years and there is no irrigation network. The dam is there, there are fifteen million tons and the amateur fishermen go fishing and we have no water to drink in Florina in the summer, from indifference and from indifference and local factors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u58	Good. Mr Antoniadis, you have put all the problems of Florina.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u59	I'm last, Mr. President. A little tolerance, please, because in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u60	Yes, but refer to the question, not to the whole range of problems!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u61	We did six hundred miles, Mr. President. Patience! I'm done! Patience!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u62	I did not say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u63	And I'll be done. The last thing I say, the third one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u64	The department now took them from Florinna?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u65	Oh, no. That's why I'm putting it. It's a chance to get the glory of you, Mr. President. It's a chance. When I say 'you', I mean the government. I'm with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u66	To come back to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u67	I close by saying that in the summer we didn't have any water and they didn't even make a pipe at least so that there would be water. Inside the mountains we are and we have water to drink. I would like to close it, and I would like to say this, Mr Minister, that the rest should not be answered - for the vertical axis, for the 150 million - the study will be ready - to take care of and provide for the commitment of this money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u68	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I will try to answer as briefly as I can. The honourable Member has raised many specific issues and has done very well because he has spoken with proposals. You will allow me to say this. You are right, and I have said so in my prology, that there are very important intra-regional disparities, which are often not recorded in official figures. That is why, because you have asked, and what we are doing as a government, what we have put at European level, in the competent services of the European Commission, is that when you want to adopt the programmes from the European Structural Fund, the criterion for allocating funds is not - and I speak of the regions throughout Europe - only the GDP of the region. It is a criterion which, too often, is fictitious, creates distortions in relation to the distribution of these resources. That is why we have set a number of other criteria, which have a social and economic dimension, so that we can have a more accurate picture of the real sizes of a region and on the basis of this information that the region is being financed. So now, with regard to the issues you raised: First of all, for lignite and electricity, which is indeed a very important resource for the region. If you want, all over the past decades there has also been what we call the 'lignite monoculture', which had its positive effects, of course, because it has given a job in too many worlds, but also its productive limits. Within the framework of the sectoral programme of the NSRF, the NSRF, the Transport and Environment Infrastructure Programme, the great project of district heating is being carried out with a total budget of EUR 55,000. This project accelerated implementation rates in the last quarter of 2016. As we all understand, this is a very important project for the region. In the next few years, the construction of this project will be completed, which has been laid for a very long time, as you know, and we think it will also give way to the problem you have raised. In addition to this project, it is currently being examined by the same sectoral programme, the study of the work of district heating Meliti with a budget of EUR 6,200,000, which will, of course, complete this whole process of providing district heating, which, as you have rightly said, has a very great need in this area. Now, for the vertical axis and for the theme which you raised, part of the vertical axis goes on, the project study is carried out under the responsibility of the Region of Western Macedonia and the "Egnatia Road" and we will find funding for this project. That is why I also spoke at the beginning of the National Public Investment Programme and the increase we have made this year, so that we can also finance such projects. You know very well that the corresponding sectoral programme in the field of roads has already been overcompensated since the end of 2014, without the possibility of integrating new projects. This is a problem, which we are facing throughout the country, namely not being able to integrate new road projects, because we are overcompensated with the programme. In other words, at the moment, we are in a process that we are trying to do, the integrated projects already in place, to see them again and either cut budgets or someone to endure, because the programme is already overcompensated to 260%. But we are looking for alternative ways of financing. One of these is the National Public Investment Programme. Another is cooperation, which we have recently developed with the European Investment Bank, which enables us to borrow, on very interesting terms, for projects which also have a developmental dimension, such as this one. We are here to discuss these proposals. I think that very soon we will have the possibility, both in the vicinity and with the productive players in the region, to sit down and see what possibilities we have to implement such important projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u70	Mr Antoniadis, I would like to say that I sympathize with you, because the same thing that is happening in Florina is happening in Agrini with the "Ionian Road". I just said about the subject matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u71	I'm with you. We're together.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u72	I am aware to this House that due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, the fifth will not be discussed under number 372/23-1-2017, a topical question for the first cycle of MP, Athens, the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the problems of families and workers in special education services. Also, due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, the sixth question under number 337/13-1-2017 will not be discussed in the second half of the fourth cycle of the Parliament and the Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinos to the Minister of Health, on the scope of the application of telemedicine in Greece. Also, due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, the twelfth will not be discussed under number 313/5-1-2017, a topical question for the second parliamentary cycle of the Centroon Association, Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health, concerning the risk of children and adolescents staying without treatment. Also, due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis, the first question under number 89/5-10-2016 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr. Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Health, on the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Rhodes Hospital, will not be discussed. Also, due to the impediment of Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis, the second question under number 89/5-10-2016 will not be discussed by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health regarding the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Hospital of Rhodes. Also, due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr.Gavroglou will not discuss the first question under number 365/20-1-2017, the second question of the Achaea MP, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the reopening of transitional sections of the TEI Western Greece. Also, due to the impediment of the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Kourublis will not discuss the fifth with number 338/13-1-2017 a topical question for the second cycle of the Member of Parliament I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the prospects for the residence of the twenty eight islands that upgrades the national sovereignty and strengthens the sovereign rights of the country. The Question No 333/12-1-2017, the tenth timely question of the second cycle of the PASOK MP - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the financing of journalists and websites, will not be discussed due to the impediment of Minister Nikolaos Papapas. Finally, the sixth question under number 366/20-1-2017, first question by MP of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the restoration of injustice in the production of electricity from domestic photovoltaic systems, will not be discussed due to a workload of Minister George Stathakis. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-26-S1-commons.u73	With the consent of the House at 11.20 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, Friday, January 27, 2017, at 10 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
