ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Culture and Sport, Home, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Administrative Reconstruction, the Deputy Minister of Finance, and the Deputy Minister of Finance and Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 6-7-2017: "Collection for the management of intellectual property rights and related rights, the grant of multi-territorial permits for online use of musical works and other matters within the competence of the Ministry of Culture and Sport". The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Members of his party have tabled a proposal for a Committee of Inquiry under Article 68 of the Constitution and Article 144 et seq. the Greek Parliament's Rules of Procedure on the investigation of the involvement of the Minister of National Defence Mr Panos Kammenos and other officials and officials in an pending court case. This proposal will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting, printed and distributed to the Members of Parliament, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u3	Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 10 July 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1125/4-7-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Finance, on “First Camp “Kodra”: Showing the area in an ultra-local park”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 1159/4-7-2017, a topical question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Finance, on "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek State and making available for social purposes". 3. The 1168/4-7-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the licenses of assistant teachers. 4. The 1119/3-7-2017 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the theft of electricity. 5. The 1116/30-6-2017 topical question by Mr. Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, about the subscribing of the General Hospital of Papageorgiou Thessaloniki. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1126/4-7-2017 topical question by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diakaras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of the "Successful Enforcement of Trade in Social Cooperative Enterprises". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 11604-4-7-2017 topical question of the Greek National High School of Munich, Mr. Savvas Anastasiades, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the housing problem of the Greek School of Munich. 3. The 1113/28-6-2017 topical question by Independent MEP 2 of Athens Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of “Semphasis of the decision of the Board of Directors”. on the anti-constitutionality of the Limitation Prolongations to Tax Controls’. 4. Under number 1032/16-6/2017, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the bet companies. 5. The Question No 1026-16-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of “Prospects and needs of the international airport of Kalamata”. 6. The Question by MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Save Vlachos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Missures of ambulances in the Halkidiki Prefecture put the lives of citizens at risk". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The current question by No 923/1-6/2017 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "fulfilment of the Tomb of the Nation". 8. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras at number 931/2-6-2017, concerning the 'SIEMENS' case. 9. The question by number 924/1-6/2017 of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulia to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "definition of judge at the Administration of the Overseas". 10. The question by No 948/6-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MEP, Mr. Sakis Bardalis, on the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVO.O.B.E". REFERENCES - Questions Questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 5212/499/26-2017, was asked and applied for Documents by the Member of the NGO Mr.Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence, on “Department of the “Pavlou Mela” Camp”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health about the operation of a civil-civil-type health centre in Chania. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS You will allow me first to announce the timely questions that will not be discussed. The second under number 1158/4-7-2017, a top-level question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Total and not partial relocation of the Achlada community of Florina" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr. Georgios Stathakis. Cause, workload. The first, with number 1122/3-7-2017, topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Electricity cuts in Rhodes, in the midst of heat and tourism”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Stathakis. Cause of a workload.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I asked why about three months ago, on a timely question from our party, I said that measures would have to be taken because we would have a power cut, as we had in previous years. Mr Stathakis then assured me that there will be no power cut. I told him there were going to be a vacation. And today, the headlines of the great newspapers of Rhodes, as well as SKAI, say that at the moment three units are not working. Consequently, with the first wave of the heat, we had the first phenomena. This means probably during the second wave of the heat will come worse. Therefore, Mr Stathakis' presence, in my view, was compulsory today, not just for opposition reasons - which do not exist - but for substantial reasons, because it is not possible to expose Rhodes, that is, the tourism of Greece - these newspapers are published in English and read by tourists - because there is no current or because there is a danger of power failure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u7	All right, Mr. Vice President. We understand your sensitivity to the matter, but because the Minister is not present, do not expand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u8	No, I won't expand. But what I would like to say is to pass on to the Minister this anxiety, because there really is anxiety. I'm not going to expand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u9	Sure. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The seventh question under number 985-9-6-2017, topical question by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr. George Vayonas to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: “The threat of a band for thousands of bakery”, will not be discussed, after the Minister's consultation with the MP. Also, the third, with number 1105-27-2017 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Truthful problems in the Cythera ferry connection" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Member of Parliament's question. The first question under number 1124/4-7-2017 of the First Cycle of the Parliamentary Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Evangelias (Valias) Vagioniakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the institutional protection of the region of Elafonisio Chania, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and its discussion will be redefined. Cause: Absence of the Minister outside Athens. The sixth question under number 1036/16-6/2017 of the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotella, on the subject: "It will finally be a solution to the issue of "AMIADIT"", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the relevant Minister and its discussion will be redefined. Cause: Absence of the Minister outside Athens. The fourth under number 1121/3-7-2017 topical question of the first cycle of the MEP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Ziraat Bank's action is intensified after the auctioning of Greek property in Rhodes", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the competent Minister Mr.M. Papadimitriou Municipality, due to unsuccessful obligations. Her debate will be redefined. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth question under number 1076/20-6/2017 will now be discussed in the context of a topical and urgent debate on a second question from the European Parliament, Mr Theodoras Megalo-Economist, to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy, on "Direct risk of the tourist season being lost for the vessel "VITSENTZOS KORNAROS", which is a subsidised line". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Mr. Nektarios Santorinios. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, good morning. You know that I have put two questions on this issue, one which you answer, 1076 on 20 June and another on 892-the same question - on 25 May. The problem with "Vicchenzos Cornaros" is too old. As you know, it is a subsidised line - with the number 2252-1-32001/1053 contracts - as it says here, award - and starts at the beginning of June the summer season routes. However, there was an announcement that the ship would have had a repair by June 2, before the Holy Spirit, and so they all expected that it would make the routes of the Holy Spirit three-day, starting from June 3 to June 5. Suddenly, it is announced that it will not make any routes, that this three-day is lost, so we also postpone access from Crete, where many routes had been closed to come, tourist coaches, etc., and made a route on June 11 - I doubt it would, I believe, do so for the eyes of the world - to Castelli. But he stayed there, could not return, returns to Piraeus, lives in Piraeus again, postpones all the routes and we have a ghost ship. So May, when he had all four months to do his repair, all June is gone - and, in fact, three days all of them had opened their shops and were waiting for hotels to work - and July is gone. Now, then, it can't be repaired and there's nothing they can do. And they don't know what to do with shops and hotels. In fact, I learned recently that those of seasonal employees who had hired either to focus or to hotels are firing them off. They've already been paid two months without using them. So now, what's going to happen? We don't know. Fortunately, they are served by the small boat, which is Naples - Kythera. But that doesn't work. You know that. Tell them what's going to happen. Tell them at least: "Lock up your shops", "Don't pay tax," "Don't have any expenses". They use air condition with the heater etc. They don't know what to do. They're waiting for your answer, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Big Economics, believe me, and our agony is the same as that you have. Of course, you said you could make the repair in winter. But the transport needs, especially for the islands, are more important in winter and you know it. The company had requested to make its planned stand for maintenance, which was from 2-5-2017 to 1-6-2017. With her new request, she asked for an extension, as you said, until 8-6-2017. This is the still, which is provided for by Law 2932 and is clearly less than the one that a ship can take. She's the one who deserves a ship is sixty days. Therefore, the matter of immorality and the three - day part of the Holy Spirit are justified. From there, as you know, and as you said, on 11-6-2017 and while going to Kissamos, we were reported mechanical damage, so the ship had to be banned, firstly, to restore the damage and, secondly, to provide a confirmation of the maintenance of the scale by the classification society, which is monitoring the ship. In this case, it is the Italian classification ‘RINA’. On 16 June, and while the ship had returned, he said that the ship's test report had re-injured the central and main engine and it was prohibited to continue the operations, because it could not work. We immediately asked the company to hand over a replacement ship. As you know, of course, both the port of Antikythera - mainly - and also Kissamos - are not easy ports so that any ship can go. It's a low depth, it's a specific cycle of manoeuvre. At the same time and after the company's reply, we asked whether it could make a route of Piraeus - Kythera - Souda, which was not possible. Therefore, at the meeting that took place, at which you were also, we said that we would proceed with all further action. And indeed, that's what we did. In other words, we asked for the company to come in order to provide us with specific explanations. This was done yesterday, after the five days have elapsed. The company came and told us that it is currently in search of a replacement ship, not only in Greece, but abroad. We gave her a short deadline to carry a replacement ship. In any other case, the legal sanctions procedure will be followed. And from there on, if necessary, we will also go to a convening of the Coast Transport Council, in order to amend the routes, in consultation with the Mayor of Kythira, but also with you, the Members, because you know that we are all together - in order to be able to help, perhaps from Gythios, Kythira. I believe that within the month we will find a definitive solution, at least for what it has to do by 31-10-2017, when the route period ends. From there on, on the barren lines, which we are going to publish now, we are going to be more careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u14	Minister, I understand you, you have your own, because on this barren line it is not the first time that this has happened. I've lived on it for years. This is the Ghostship, so it is not just the part of you, it has also been the case on previous governments. It was never conscientious, so don't ever give him a subsidy again. But that's not the point. The point is that they lost May, June, they would lose July and perhaps lose August as well. If you go down to Kythira - come to my house as well - you will find that until August 20 is the season. If you go in September and October, you won't find a bird flying. The municipality has lost the fees of contributors. He won't get a fee. All hotels start and fire. Don't go to any IKAs or any IKAs to check on them. I reserve for their physical integrity. I'm telling you. They're so furious, they're either gonna have them shop or they're gonna get them. I don't know what's gonna happen. I'm saying that's funny. Do you understand what I'm saying? They lost an entire season. You told me about winter. What to move in the winter? Some elderly people are going from Kythera to Piraeus to stay with their children. They have nothing else to do. Even trucks don't pass. I tell you from experience, because many Members of Parliament I Piraeus are elected to the Municipality of Kythera. Kythera belongs to Piraeus, but they have nothing to do with Piraeus. Venizelos had done so, because Kythera was then a place of exile and his wife Elena wanted to show them more civilized and incorporated them into Piraeus. No one goes to Kythera in winter, only in summer. So since there's no connection, the season's gone, do you understand? It hurts me to say it. The season's gone for these people. Do something so they can work in August at least. I say it because I'm not going on vacation in Kythera. If they see me coming down from the plane or the boat, they'll throw me to the sea, I tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u16	My colleague, as I said, I fully understand the problem and believe me, we have also tried to find an alternative ship. But that is true and we said it at the meeting is that it cannot be any ship, because the sea is not protected, so we need special category B ships, as they are classified, in order to be used and at the same time to be small and have a small depth. Therefore, you understand that there are not many small ships in Greece and what is there, at the moment they are on some lines. There is a systematic effort and believe me, even at the moment when we are talking about services are trying to help in this direction. In any case, and some ships proposed, unfortunately, will not be ready before the end of July. I am very optimistic that the problem will be restored in August. In any case, however, we need to see this line again and you are welcome - you know - to discuss it and to see how we can improve our transport operation, the transport of Kythera. We have to say something, though. That the ship that makes the line from Naples has increased the route lines and helps in this direction not to exclude Kythiras and not to say "Kythiras will never see them". At the same time, the company, which is a subsidiary of another shipping company - let us not say names - has already announced that, in the trucks they want to travel to Kythera, it offers free tickets to Piraeus and from there for a road transition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. Next, the fifth, with number 1078/20-6-2017, is a topical question for the Achaias MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Theodoros Papatheodorou, Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy, on the subject: “Action for intervention in justice by representatives of the Port Body”. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, from an electronic post held on June 19, 2017, and audio document, which has been posted, it is reported that the trustee of the Port Corps, Mr. Christofordis, talks with the prisoner Mr. Giannusakis, who was sentenced to life in the first place. In this conversation, the officer attempts to engage a certain businessman in a drug case and openly urges the prisoner to testify against him, also saying there will be exchanges that will ease his criminal situation. At the same time, Mr Christofordis sounds, among other things, at the talks, as he says, in consultation with the Minister of National Defence Mr. Kammenos, who seems to inform him of the case, but is alleged to be in contact with the Prosecutor, Mrs. Giva, with whom he allegedly arranged, through Mr. Kammenos, to visit the detainee and other evidence relating to the case. We hear in the sound that it urges the prisoner to make an enemy, because in fact, there are many important business and political interests behind. The investigating official is alleged to promise to mediate so that the prisoner can benefit from the law, if he testifies in the direction he wants. He arrives at the point where he promises to intervene at the Suspension Court. He claims that if he receives the prisoner's testimony, he will go to Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kontonis to get him out of prison. The questions are very simple, because these are real facts, as long as we have the audio document. On the one hand, with which command, Minister, was the officer involved in the whole case and when? The second question, which is relevant, is this: did you, as a Ministry, when did you become aware of the illegal activity? Also, another very simple question is: When did you hear or read these publications, what disciplinary procedure did you start against the warden and when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, you have afflicted the questions. One became three.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u21	It's related, Minister, one after the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u22	Okay, that's perfectly understandable. Mr. Papatheodorou, members of the Security Sector - Investigation of the Port Authority of Piraeus have sometimes visited the prisoner for violation of Law 4139/2013, in conjunction with Law 3459/2006 on addictive substances, Mr.Giannisakis Ethymios, in order to provide his own initiative information on the discovery of further suspects related to the case of "NOOR - 1", as security officials. As you know, the Narcotics Code, and in particular Article 27(4) thereof, states that ‘in the case of information provided by the person responsible, a sworn witness test report shall be drawn up, which shall be sent to the overseeer of the Narcotic Drugs Prosecutor's case under Article 44, in order to be aware’. I will not read the entire article to you, but only to the end, because I think it also answers your questions: 'The reports referred to above are only aware of the members of the relevant Judicial Council or of the Court of Justice, who are, on their own initiative, considering whether or not to grant the benefits provided for in the preceding paragraphs'. So, you understand that this is a process, based on the Code of Drugs. On the basis of this article, no one else, other than the competent judicial authorities, can know neither the political leadership nor the natural leadership of the Port Authority nor anyone else, because otherwise the interrogation could take place, as you can see. From that point on, because you are asking what disciplinary measures we have taken, as you know, I imagine you are aware of that - after the law of the particular businessman in question, the Marios Ice has ordered a preliminary examination, carried out by the prosecutors. I would like to tell you that the Ministry's leadership guarantees that, as far as the information is concerned, they will be provided immediately and fully in order to investigate the case fully. As long as there is a need for disciplinary action during the course of the investigation, then I can assure you that it will be immediately ordered. But, Mr Papatheodorou, do you think that a sworn administrative examination - because this is the disciplinary measure - which will be ordered and which will normally be carried out by a superior, perhaps by a supreme officer of the Port Corps, I say, will be able to provide more information than is to be gathered by a prosecutor? Do you think that a top officer of the Port House has more opportunity and more access to evidence on this case than a prosecutor's? Honestly, I don't understand why you're in a hurry. I told you before that whatever is necessary, any disciplinary action, and if it is determined by judicial investigation, it will be immediately monitored.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you did not answer me for this reason: on the one hand, I did not ask you about the criminal aspect. The criminal part I know very well. Your responsibility is the disciplinary part, that is, the disciplinary procedure. And I'm telling you that, because Mr. Giannousakis testifies to the Pentacles' Appeals Court that he was blackmailed by Mr. Christoforides. In another interview, published yesterday, he says: "All my statements have leaked from the same man" - I tell you what parts of the disciplinary procedure - "and they are from Mr Panagiotis Christoforides, as they leaked last Sunday into the Greek press." It's yesterday's interview. He says his statements broke down. He also says: "All my statements is in the hands of Mr Christoforides, who distributes them to people who he judges." And it ends: 'Obviously, Mr Christoforides gave this to Mr Kammenos'. That's a complaint. It's a complaint, not anywhere, repeated it at the Pentelic Suspension Court. So, when you hear that a port officer leaks deposits, huh, the least you can do is call him and say, "Don't, why are you doing this?" or "where are we in this case?". The problem is that here Mr Christofordis is alleged to be an intermediary of interests, which plays a key role in the case, but he seems to have relations and contacts - not only by telephone, Minister - both with Mr Kammenos and with the prosecutor Mr Djiva. He seems to be living with the prisoner. He seems to communicate with sms to inform him of the prosecution's movements and the evolution of the case. So what we should see - and, if you will, the crucial point of my question - is: Since 16 May 2017, Giannousakis has made reference to the Ice Award Prosecutor. It's what you said before. From May 16, he has reported to the Ice Award Prosecutor, to whom he is reported to be blackmailed by Christoforides. So when in the most official body of this criminal procedure you have a report on a member of your Ministry, what is your reaction? Because if there is no reaction from you, then the question is postponed. The question is one: Who keeps you, Minister, from starting disciplinary proceedings on a preliminary level - I am not telling you anything else - to find out what has happened to that officer? Because, you know what? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I am sorry for one point: the inertia of your Ministry - and I am not speaking personally, you know what I mean - includes you to all those who knew and did nothing at all this time. So I come back to the question: When did the Ministry know of the illegal activity of this lieutenant? If you cover him, you will also share your responsibilities later, when the criminal proceedings will induce you to inactivity at the disciplinary level. Why? Because here we have illegality. What's the crime? Abuse of power. And I don't think you want the ministry to be involved in covering up the abuse of power at a malicious level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Papatheodorou, I guess you're making a serious mistake and I would expect no such mistake from a qualified scientist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u27	Let me hear it. Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u28	You adopt unreasonable testimonies and testimonies and while there is a preliminary examination, you consider them to be data and say that there is an illegal activity. Tell me, where does it turn out that there is an illegal activity? What court investigation showed this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u29	Let go of justice. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u30	Or does it result from the remote windows and the various sites, which refer to it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u31	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u32	And secondly, you are taking unreasonable accusations, which are currently being examined by the prosecutors. And what I told you, Mr. Papatheodorou, is that, contrary to what was probably the case in previous years, every detail that the competent prosecutor will need will be made available immediately by our Ministry. It's clear what I'm telling you. And you say to me, "Why don't you take a sworn administrative exam?" Do you know how long a sworn administrative exam lasts?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u33	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u34	A lot of time, Mr. Papatheodorou, and you know it. You know how these procedures are moving. Many times one could say that this process is paradoxical. But do you know what, Mr. Papatheodorou? Because you said you were sorry, I'm sorry, not what you said, but what you didn't say. So you did not say that this case is one of the most important successes brought by the Port Authority, by the Greek Coast Guard and by executive in these successes was the one who is accused. What he did then we'll see. I'm not acquitting anyone. But it was among those who took out this huge drug case. Also, Mr Papatheodorou, you do not mention that at least first-time sentence persons, who are well-known, are friends of well-known masters. You also do not mention, Mr Papatheodorou, that the case - not the case that the Prosecutors' Attorney-General sees, but the one which the Prosecutors of Piraeus is investigating - is still in progress. So any information needs to be exploited. You know that, I guess. You're a high-profile scientist. Anyway, Mr. Papatheodorou, after the revelations about your party's sea loans...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u35	Oh, we're here to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u36	...following Mr. Martin's revelations about what your ministers have done, after the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, after the criminal prosecutions were carried out two days ago to Mr. Papantoniou, why didn't an administrative investigation take place, while there was a preliminary examination? You are probably the one with a problem too, because there are three hundred thousand new jobs created - and we have covered those lost by the Samara - Venizelos government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u37	Chohatzopoulou will vote for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u38	You took him out. We put him in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u39	You are one of those who have a problem, because we have a history of low interest rates of Greek government bonds. You're one of those who's in trouble, because the stock exchange's over eight hundred forty units. Whatever you say, no matter how much mud you fly, we'll move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. Here is the second question by number 1173/4-7-2017, the second question by the Member of the Republican Association of the PASOK - DIMARKKKKY KEgeroglou to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: “Strengthening of radio stations - to remove the immunity between radio stations in the country”. Minister Nikolaos Pappas answers. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, they have been so dived in mud, rattled in the gutter, traded with isovites, convicted, and they are trying to change the subject matter. I asked the Minister for Communications, Mr Pappa, but someone who claims to be in the black propaganda, and of course all those who have spoken of. He did not answer any of the questions and he had the courage to indicate and what we will ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u42	Do you ever hear of that for the first time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u43	Get him out!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u44	Thrashimi! Go to your gutter! Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Kegeroglu, the previous question is over. We're on another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u46	The subject of our question therefore concerns a specific problem of radio stations, where they are located in areas where soil geomorphology does not allow them to cover the geographical area for which they have been authorised. The law allows radio stations to use in these areas and other centres and the same frequency is provided for by the licence, but also by the law. Of course, I am not talking about areas such as Attica and Thessaloniki, where the spectrum has been effectively exploited and there is no possibility, but I am referring to the areas where this problem exists and the whole spectrum has not been exploited, there are many free frequencies. As Law 4070 provides, frequencies can be made available by means of a procedure which, according to the law, is defined in terms, conditions and, of course, with the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts as a manager, in order to address this problem. Because this problem was also found by a Minister of your Government, I think Mr Spirtzi, who I think was responsible before he was reconstructed with the creation of the Ministry of which you are leading, with a clearing circular that he issued, provides for such a procedure, but it is not applicable. And because there have been many and significant fines imposed on radio stations that have come out of different centres without modernising because of the difficulties they have encountered, I ask you: Do you intend to take care to examine the requests made by these radio stations in reasonable time to make the frequency available to them and, in the meantime, not to have the procedure of measures for the fines imposed, why do we have the EBRD to apply only part of the law - and not to apply the option given by the Act for the disposal of frequencies so that these radio stations can become legal, as they have asked for with their applications? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u48	Allow me, Mr Kegeroglou, to say that we also need courage in politics and, as we bravely respect the Constitution, even when some of the decisions that we regard as unexplained - and I refer to the tender for television licences, because we have immediately adapted the existing legislation - so we would expect you too to recognise that something is going well in the economy. The unemployment rate has fallen for the first time since 2012 under 22%, we have over 300 to 350 000 jobs created since the beginning of 2015, and I would say that for a party that wants to put itself on the centre-left the question of increasing employment and drawing conclusions is a very useful process. Unfortunately, we are not seeing this, and I am very sorry to say it, but in the case of the drug ship, it seems that you are not interested in the state finding out who was the composer who organized this transport. You have other interests and that makes us sad - I am telling you honestly - because the major is to see who thought it could carry two tons of heroin and bring them to Greece. That's the big one. In any case, it is not the question of the question. I think that Mr Kegeroglu's question is very critical and I would like to thank him for giving me the opportunity to address an important and timely issue, which, of course, comes far behind our own governance. There is talk of an irresponsible landscape in your question, Mr Kegeroglu, and not just in yours, but in other relevant questions that have been tabled by your colleagues. You refer to the problems that the state is called upon to solve so that an integrated framework can finally be established, which not only will the state itself know what the situation is, but, at the same time, radio companies will be able to operate properly and with programming. I want to say it to be recorded in the Minutes. If once there was what we call anarchy and immunity in the television scenery, you know - and here we do not need any hypocrisy or hide behind our finger - that the radio scenery is much more anarchical, precisely because the state has chosen to deal with the ex post performance of legal function on already operated power stations without any other specification for radio stations. That was, unfortunately, the reality. I therefore think that, as we have dealt with the situation in the television field, where we prefer the issue of regulation, we must also judge and move on to avoid gray areas. Now you're talking about a real problem. I would like to say to you - and I am also in my dentistry, because it is over time, to say more - that no regulation can be made without uncontrolled use of spectrum, which is a rare resource, and of course, because there are also risk issues here, the inconsistent use of frequencies by air navigation services, whether military or civil aviation, etc. Nor should we allow the overloading of the overloaded radio spectrum and for technical reasons and because of the quality of the broadcast of the stations. Finally, with regard to fines, Mr Kegeroglu, I would like to say that the Ministry does not have competence and it is not possible to get into a logic where the independent telecommunications committee will put fines and the Minister will come and erase them. It's not an old type of traffic violation calls of the Road Traffic Code these fines. I think that anyone who has his objections, there are the institutions in charge and there can also be addressed. The issue of empty frequencies, which is perfectly real, will be resolved by the new frequency map, for which we will soon be able to recruit a technical consultant. This should not be solved in the foot too. It is complex, it is not simple at all, and I think it needs proper attention from both the government and from all political forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u49	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u50	You, Mr. Pappa, are a regular propaganda minister! In my question, I did not mention anything about unemployment and you told us about the reduction of unemployment - and you did well on your part...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u51	Doesn't that make you happy? It's got to cheer you up!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u52	I would remind you, however, that you have forgotten to say that working hours have increased. You forgot to say that the long-term unemployed have risen sharply. And get the data from the OAED who records the real situation, which unfortunately continues on many aspects, despite the rise in tourism, dramatically. Of course, it will not change if the state does not see to it that it connects growth with work and work with growth and not with other forms that are supposed to solve the problem. But the question here is specific and I want to stay in it. And another day I will ask you a question on unemployment, since you are also concerned with it, although I think it is Mrs Ahtsoglou's responsibility. So here, what do we say? That in areas where geographical diversity there is a problem, until such time as this notice or any other process of permanent change beyond the institutional framework takes place, the possibility of using frequencies under the limitations you have said, that is to say, in the case of cases where over-covering could cause problems. I am not talking about these cases. I am referring to where there is reuse in the vast spectrum, which the law provides cannot be untapped. It should be provided for by Law 4070. There must be rules, of course, but the possibility of using them. As provided for in Law 4199/2013, fines cannot be imposed and even collected when the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts does not do its job, i.e. examine the applications made by people. Let's answer them negatively. But until he examines, he can't go and put fines. You mentioned an example with the Road Traffic Code. It's like there's no Road Traffic Code actually and just cutting calls. It's similar. The committee is not doing its job here, of course. I don't judge her more generally today. So what we ask you to do is to examine the applications that have been submitted and after examination of the applications and rejected, let the fine procedure proceed. But before that, I think it is completely unfair, but beyond all reasonable. I think the process has been characterised by documentary and unconstitutional documents by authors. But I don't want to go there. It's a real problem, as you recognize in your answer, as Mr. Spirtz recognized, so he pulled out the circular, as the legislator had recognized, so he passed a law in 2014. It provides for specific things to be applied, unless there is a change in the order of things, to cut off fines, to load radio stations with superweights to close down. Is that the purpose? Of course, it is a matter, as you said, which is time-consuming, but the attempt to resolve it had resulted in one point. Mr. Spirtzi's 2016 circular mentions specific things. Why did he change politics from there and beyond the Ministry? Why does the National Telecommunications and Post Commission not apply the law to this side, namely its obligation to place specific frequencies on terms and conditions in secondary broadcasting centres where there is a problem? This is in Crete, Epirus, the Peloponnese. It's not in Thessaly, of course, where with a broadcast point you can broadcast to a wider area because of geomorphology. Of course, it is not about Attica and Thessaloniki, where the frequency range has been fully exploited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u53	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u54	Mr Kegeroglu, the development and operation of the radio, as I said, began in Greece, unfortunately, like other things, completely wrong. Frequency maps were created by common ministerial decisions, but a condition for the smooth implementation and operation of frequency maps was also the licensing of radio stations, which never happened, never took place. The good news is that it has entered the package of the agreement with the institutions and will have to be very quickly, unfortunately with exogenous pressure, that the country will also proceed with this act of competence of the National Radiovision Council, of course. Unfortunately, this story did not go ahead, even though both the Venizelos Law and the earlier law of 1989, and also the Rusopou Law. The 2014 Act provides that secondary transmission positions should be allowed to be in positions within a neighbouring prefecture by the one mentioned in the legal service attestation to cover exclusively the county of the attestation and not the extension beyond that. It was also stated that the emission frequency from the secondary positions should be exactly the same as the one for which the station has received the legal status of operation and is used in the respective capital position. The precise circular you referred to, the Ministry of Infrastructure, and unfortunately this circular, has not been used as you should, if I may, by the users of frequencies, so that we cannot solve the problem. You're asking me if there's any possibility of setting a transitional period for stations to use with a secondary emission position of sub-items. We believe that the current law is very clear. Of course, the attempt to correct any ambiguities, as happened with the 2016 circular, was not exploited as I said to you and we will see further interventions that could solve the problem. You are asking us whether there is a case of suspension of application of fines. I repeat, Mr Kegeroglu, that the Ministry does not have the power to make such a decision. The Services implement the applicable law, while any authorisation is granted to the PSE alone. I would like to say that it is good to let ERT do its job and not to shape a climate here that we could do fines by political decision. I won't argue and totally that there's probably no radio traffic code. This must be completed and we must move on very quickly. This thing, of course, as I told you in my first place, will not be done at the foot. I conclude by saying that in the part of your question which calls on us to consider the problem of frequency coverage per county, the subject of frequencies is not simple, as I have told you. Unfortunately, some people saw it simple. I think that with welfare and consciousness, it is a complex issue, we will proceed to the appropriate setting of a frequency map. Of course, we hope very quickly and the competent authority will complete the authorisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. Next, the third, with number 1120/3-7-2017, is the timely question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Antagonism and the new arrangement for television licences". Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, what exactly does the Constitution define in Article 15? It stipulates that for all issues relating to the television scene, the relevant decision of the PSE is necessary and decisive. What has the Council of State confirmed in a very precise way? That's it. What has happened as a result of this decision by the Council of State? These are the four permits you wanted to make, to make Greece North Korea or Venezuela TV. I told you this and we were fighting. You didn't accept them, but it turns out so. This regulation has been considered unconstitutional. And what did you do? You came here and recommended to the House its abolition. That's what happened. What happened a month ago again from you? You have made arrangements for multipliers, so in the end, with regard to capacity for broadcasting a television message. You have brought arrangements, again without having been to the PSE to get assent, necessary and decisive as I said at the beginning. And what have you paralyzed? You have left out for the country, for the televisions and for yourself again the same problem, just the same problem again. Mr Pappa, on 23 June I ask you here on another occasion: 'Have you received an opinion from the PSE on the amendment you have tabled and which the House has voted on rather than us?' and you answer me wickedly - you're accustomed to that - that there are correspondences that you're going to file. Of course you didn't testify. But I didn't ask you if you'd copy with who. I asked you whether you have the necessary and decisive opinion under the Constitution and the Council of State - a decision of the Radiovision Council. Of course, you don't. We are learning later - and this is my question - that you have just brought the law, the amendment and you have voted for it, the Broadcasting Council - listen, Mr President - by voting eight to one, and sends you a letter saying that what you have done is unconstitutional and that it will have consequences for your implementation as well. Tell us, please, is there this opinion? I would ask you to testify for the second time now. Tell me yet when will the competition end for its own multipliers that the public television does? He's still not finished and he's covering space where they could fit three more more private channels. When will it end? It is with a clear end that this is the process. Tell us exactly when it's over. What's the end of the case? Third and last. Last night, after you attacked the Opposition, having been defeated at all, even if we take it by the number of permits, from four to seven, once again happy and winner yesterday - and here you are winning - Mr Minister, you are alleged to have said that these seven, unlike the information we all have, do not rule out themes. I'm not saying you've said it, you're acting like you've said it. Have you said that? So the topics are excluded? These are three questions and I would ask you to answer all three of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u58	I accept the widening of the circle of questions you have written in your question, Mr Loverdos. I will respond to all of this, saying that I would expect a party that is self-sufficient on the centre-left side and also has self-described social-democratic forces to welcome the increase in employment in a country. It's a good news. I invite you to assess it, too. [[Laughers from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] I'm on TV. Don't worry at all! I would also ask you to evaluate the extremely useful positions of the leaders of the European Socialist Group, who from this step, personally, and on behalf of the Government, to thank for the very positive advice we have had throughout the negotiations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u59	For the country, not the government of SYRIZA! For the country, not for the Tsipra government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u60	All right! You'll see them again, Mr. Maniot. Don't insurrect! They've been calling for a long time. Ignorant or appropriate, I think it's the question, Mr. Loverdo. Why are you coming right now and telling me what exactly? What was the argument of Response? Do you want me to read you? Let me read to you: Kyriakos Mitsotakis on March 29, 2016: "Give an unlimited number of permits, because only so can freedom of speech, media and democracy be shielded". So the National Broadcasting Council that limits the number of licences is destroying freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u61	Another answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u62	No "other answer"! I come to your position, Mr. Loverdo. You come and tell me about number four. What did we say then? Four general authorisations should be granted in order to allow the spectrum and for the theme. So I repeat - and I am not just telling you my position, ask the experts of the National Telecommunications Commission - the number seven leaves too little room for thematic licences. Let me tell you what you were saying, Mr. Loverdo, and what was your party leader saying? Let me tell you. Gennamas on October 24, 2015: “We are in the digital age and you are still moving with the logic of analogue frequencies, where de facto the licenses were measured. The digital platforms have so far reversed restrictions on the number of licences granted.’ Men Loverdos: "Everyone says that today's technology allows an unlimited number of permits." [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] These charges you are firing against us for 'Venezuels' and 'North Koreas' will you say them to the PSE? Let me get this straight. Because it has limited the number of licences to the PSE. The nonsense about an unlimited number of possibilities has not been repeated. Because people sat down, discussed with the National Telecommunications Commission and ended up in this number. What can we do now? Should we reduce the requirements of the law on the number of workers? I don't suppose you're asking for that? Should we look at stealing a multiplier from ERT? I hope you do not insist and say so inadvertently. Or should we take our measures so there won't be a price? None of this. Now we're going to the mailing with the PSE. If I may, Mr President, misuse your tolerance so that Mr Loverdos does not complain that I am avoiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u63	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u64	There is no decision, therefore, by the PSE, which considers the recent legislation adopted by Parliament unconstitutional and the type of clarity to be unconstitutional. Our regulation was necessary, because the type of clarity...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u65	Do you have an opinion on this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u66	Listen to me! So there's no opinion. There is a question and a confidential letter, which I will invite you to my office shortly afterwards to see with your eyes. And I would ask you, in consultation with the National Broadcasting Council, to call for confidentiality to be kept - it would be a good thing. You are welcome immediately after coming to see her. There was, therefore, this confidential letter relating to the question of clarity. This issue had to be resolved because it was formulated in the previous law in the articles that were repealed following the decision of the Council of State. Let me remind you what we did. We said that by 2021 the channels would also have high clarity and formal clarity. Is it a revolutionary change? Is there any evil of ours to narrow down the spectrum? Because your argument is that we did it to limit the number. And it comes all of a sudden and leaves you with artificial offside in front of the defense line the PSE says: 'Seven licences'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u67	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u68	To conclude, because I think it will be very creative. I've printed screenshots from last night's TV stations. I have them here, I'll testify to the Minutes and I want you to see them. At the moment, pan-Hellenic channels are emiting both standard and high resolution at the same time. These screenshots, which I'll testify are from last night. And this reality has existed since February 2016, for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u69	Good. The rest in your dentistry, Minister. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u70	Of all the things I have said, and I then take advantage of my speech that it has brought an unconstitutional amendment here again, because it has, as he has said, not been given a prior opinion from the Television Council. I will use it and explain practically what that means next to my speech. It is also clear with what the Minister said today - and with what the Minister said earlier in reply to Mr Kegeroglu - that the country is within the limits of the democratic diversion. Here in the press are the four channels, what it says today, are blackmail - especially in newspapers - with the threat of not granting state advertising, it is what has happened with the blackmailing for two purchases, for the sale of "DOL" and for the history of "PEGASOU", it is what has happened with SYRIZA Channel and SYRIZA Bank. It is now a pretext that they are moving in the information field. And not only in this area: they are attacking decisions by independent authorities, they ignore the constitutional function of the independent authorities. They're attacking court decisions. None of us will forget the Government's representative on the night of the decision of the Council of State. “Explained judicial decisions”, says a leading executive member of the independent judiciary. Plan B, Varoufakis, Kim, some time ago others, plan B, in violation of proxy, in breach of Article 151 of the Criminal Code. But for all this, there is the next day. Hundreds of millions of contracts are currently being executed, and they have ended, with tsamboukas, because it is the left Maduro, the establishment of their own. The previous question by Mr Papatheodorou was very clear. Woman lies about what is technically difficult to understand: public debt, memoranda, development, surpluses. Smuggling in cigarettes. While the Minister of Justice rightly says that there is a criminal case for smuggling, another minister decides on a radio that there is no cigarette smuggling. Customize charges against political opponents in a blurred way. And you, television laws, which one after another go to the basket of unusable people. You have confessed here that you have brought an amendment - we have not voted on it - by mocking your Members, without having done what you have been defeated by a state a while ago by the decision on the number of channels. What's going on now? Can a man say: "Good! There are seven of them, but it cannot be said that this process will end, Minister. And you know why? Because anyone who does not want, for example, to fulfil one of the conditions you have set him, has given him the right to cancel the law. So you've set that up. I can't accept that you're ignorant. You're two and a half years Minister. I cannot accept that this is because of ignorance, ignorance or for reasons of well-being, as someone else can say who doesn't like you. I don't accept that. I'm doing this out of the way. I'm saying you're appropriate. You cannot, after two and a half years, organize the nullity of the law you brought here for a formal reason. And you're laughing because you want to show you don't understand. You understand very well. You're doing this on purpose. And one is the political conclusion of what I say to you: you are finished. We've been living in your last few days. We're living the end of you. And you've been dangerous in these last few days. Because laughingly you're bringing in here, you're organizing the anarchy here in the television scenery that you set up. You do so on purpose, Mr Pappa, and there is no reason to forgive what you have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u71	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u72	In other words, we would love each other, and then a crescendo by Mr. Loverdos, like what he did when we discussed the law on permits. It seems that this issue really irritates you, Mr. Loverdos. It's coming out of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u73	It's coming out. Because what I said comes out!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u74	Nothing's come out, but nothing has come out of what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u75	Everything you say doesn't come out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u76	We said 'fiction in power', but here, we are talking, we have broken every record. The speaker was accused of undermining the licensing of television stations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u77	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u78	Please address this point. Go out and say that the relevant Minister and this government do not want the licensing of television stations to be completed. In fact, I think it will give rise to abundant laughter to anyone who hears that argument. I repeat, will you apologise for what you were saying - I hope from ignorance - for an unlimited number? The PSE came and said "seven permits". Yes, sir. What are you gonna say? Where did the argument about the unlimited number go? Where did the argument about the unlimited number go?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u79	What about you saying four?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u80	Let me tell you, then, that we have had a lot of trouble and that, when this matter was coming in, you were struggling and wetting and described, and of all, you did, and they were fascistically calling me a specific television station, which specialises in intercepting the ERT's badge. Of course, we've all been through and done. But we are in front of a new reality. We have a certain number of permits. And which is surprising about the ownership of television stations? There is also the paragraph 2 of Article 9 of Law No.4339, on the basis of which the tender will take place, as the National Broadcasting Council admits, which says that the employees per channel of general scope are four hundred. So when this process is completed and on the basis of the provisions of our law, workers in the pan-Hellenic channels will be two thousand eight hundred, many more than those who are now. And I want to send a message to those who during the licence used the workers as a shield, telling them a load of lies. They have now begun the redundancies both in the STAR and in the SCA. To adapt, then, to the reality and prepare business plan to hire and not bet on your help. That's not good enough. Because we will invite you every day to defend these rules for defending the rights of workers in national channels. And if you don't, you'll be very exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 9/10-2-2017 will be discussed with seventeen Members of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMARS etc. Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, Georgios Arvanitides, Ilhan Ahmet, Evangelos Venizelos, Leonida Gregorakos, Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Vasilios Kegeroglou, Charulas (Haras) Kefidou, Yannis Koutsoukouou, Dimitrios Kremastiou, Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Andreas Loverdou, Ioannis Maniati, Theodoros Papatheodorou, Constantinos Scandalides, Michael Jeleni and Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject of "The deception of the Government of SYRIZA - ANDEL continues." The reason for ten minutes is the first questionable MEP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago in this Chamber we heard the same story, after your complete failure, 'the others were worse', when you have failed and you are worse in all areas. Of course, today we are talking about growth - the issue in which you are completely worse - at a time that is particularly critical of the Greek economy. What is this long-standing development that has become a joke among the Greeks? Is it a arbitrary concept? Is this something we can achieve simply in good intentions, or is it something specific that needs to have content, goals, result? Development, Minister, depends on three things: the investment environment, the climate in the economy, confidence. Unfortunately, for you and the Greek people, we have a problem. I'll start with trust. No major investor will put his money in a country in which everyone knows that there is no strategic development framework. Bad lies, when you go invest somewhere where there's no plan, there's no business plan, whether you go snatch or go and buy sharp. And as long as you do not build a strategic development framework for the Greek economy, you will be forced to grant public property at prices much lower than their actual value. This is what you do at the ports, that's what you do on the land, that's what most of the big investment the country needs. Second condition is climate. What should we start here? Should we talk about an economy that has been in the neck for two years? Only losses from the shipping currency have reached two years 2015-2016 at 5.32 billion euros, because Mr. Varoufakis has closed the banks, who along with your Mr. Kim - yet your advisor - imagined that the Greek economy can operate with coupons. Minister, EUR 5.32 billion is almost the entire public investment programme for 2017. It's not your fault either, it's your previous, it's your engagement, it's your bad strangers. Responsibilities are borne solely by your Government. Can we talk about two years of recession while you received growth? Should we talk about the recurring Greek investment, which sends the message that this government is constantly plundering investors? Should we talk about the second evaluation that would close a year ago without a single additional measure and end up loading on the backs of Greek society an additional EUR 5 billion? What about all this, Minister, do we need to talk? I now come to the investment environment. This is where I want to be fair. You did receive an investment environment with problems. Regrettably, however, rather than making progress, you do things more and more. In your day, Minister, business and free trade have made the state a partner. Business taxation for profits of up to EUR 50,000 went from 26% to 29%, VAT from 13% to 23% and from 23% to 24%. The tax-free 9,100 euros went to 5,600. The excise duty on fuel has increased, as has oil and gas for industrial use. You put a special 5% end to the phones, internet and pay-TV. You put an end to the hotel. You increased taxation on coffee, beer and alcoholic drinks. With Mr. Katrugalou's insurance, the contributions went beyond any previous. Really, Minister, do you expect the system to be supported by an exterior contribution to a labour market with 25% unemployment? Who are you expecting to open up jobs in this place? The public who is still trying to find his pace or production forces that can and must build wealth that we need? In simple terms, Minister, in an economy whose wealth has shrinked considerably, you come and impose taxes on what is moving, what is breathing. And because I don't like to talk in general about development, I want to give a picture of what is happening today on the market in northern Greece that I know well. Do you know what the situation is today, Minister, in Thessaloniki? The industrial area in Sindo is full of industrial shells. Two craftsmen close every day. From the beginning of the year to June, thirty-nine companies put a locker, and opened only a hundred and eighty-six, according to data from the Thessaloniki Chamber of Industry. So instead of seeing how you convince those who are already on the business track to continue investing in their businesses, you tell them to look for ways to get out of the market to limit their losses. This is the reality in business. Talk to people who still produce in difficult conditions real wealth in this country and you'll see what I'm talking about. You'll see what it means sealing a check, you'll see what it means not to have funding and you need to cover suppliers, payroll, taxi, funds. These issues are difficult and complex. They don't just solve by pressing the button. That is why, I repeat, development needs plan and goals. I'm not saying we can lift up the bar and go down. We can, however, set realistic targets and achieve them. I'll get you a simple example. According to ELTAT, farmers, farmers and our fishermen offer 4% of GDP. Do you have a plan, Minister, on how to increase this number, even by one unit? Or do we go back to the logic of'seeing and doing'? Correspondingly if you add all other ELSTAT codes that contain the word "production", you will only get a 4% of GDP. Do you have an incentive plan by sector? Do you specialize in your strategy? Or do we go back with the logic of 'all get out of here'? I am saying this because I have the information on how you set up the development law. You have announced eight aid schemes with just 150 million each only to avoid the European Commission's controls. The result is that in some schemes applications have exceeded 800 million and now eight out of ten investment projects must be rejected. In contrast to some other aid schemes, there is not a single application for investment of more than 20 million. If that's not a plan shortage, then what is it? The same with old development laws. Did we have to get to about five to give you an extension? The extensions, Minister, if we want them to work, must be given months before the deadline ends, before investors abandon their plans before the banks refuse to finance them because of a short deadline. There was also another paradox in your extension. In the 2004 investments, which had more than a decade to reach 50% of the implementation, you extended until 31 July, while in the case of investments that started ten years later you only give five months more. This is a clear injustice which I think you need to correct. I'm coming to the ESDP now. Despite what Mr Haritsis says, the absorption of the new ESDP is lower than the objectives. Specifically, according to official figures from the Ministry of Development on 17-1-2017, of the nearly 24.3 billion corresponding to our country in 2016 only 1.8 billion were absorbed. This money corresponds to 7.42% of the total, which is much less than 11.35% for which the Minister was speaking. And, of course, to date - and this is the main one - there has not been a single euro on the market. There are similar problems in the previous NRP 2007-2013 with outstanding projects. These projects have not only been completed, but were lost in 1.3 billion Community funds intended to complete them. Now you need to find this money from national resources, that is again from Greek taxpayers. With the financial tools you found ready when you took over, you lost two years to update the study that had been approved by the European Commission. Result? Not a single euro in the market until the first quarter of 2017 for something that was ready from 2014. As far as the Yunker package is concerned, not even a small and medium-sized enterprise has access to it. This is what we learned from the recent visit of the Athens Chamber of Commerce in Brussels. In the 2014-2020 rural development programme we are in the third year and the programme has not yet started, unfortunately. Not even a new beneficiary has been joined. Six billion for rural development remains unsolved, and the advance on the fisheries programme has been lost. In the energy sector, you have left the programme "I'm saving by house" frozen for two years. Minister, how do you want the market to move into an economy that was primarily geared to building activity? In the field of the environment, you have found six environmentally licensed and candidates for membership of the ESDP and you have done absolutely nothing. These are only some of the issues that we are criticising. [[At this point, the closing bell of the honourable Member's speech hits a warning bell.]] I would like a minimum of time, Mr President. Therefore, the 2015 and 2016 recessions were neither accidental nor short-term. It was the result of the acts and omissions of a government which demonstrates to the Greek people every day that it cannot. You can't bring growth, gentlemen, you can't bring hope, you can't get the country out of the crisis. The same work, unfortunately, will be seen this year. IOBE's forecasts for 1.5% growth in 2017 are well below 2.7% provided by the budget. So we'll be back in front of new measures to cover the revenue gap. We are in the face of another failure of the government, which, as the Greek people are unfortunately always paying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The second honourable Member, Mr Constantine Scandalidis, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Please allow me to use my dentistry as well, because I want to leave as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u86	Yes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, when we read the question again today, the one we have tabled since February, and by a delay of six months, we have debated a development question, which is the most serious problem which, in everyone's opinion, concerns the country and its course, there is also a good one: it may have been six months, but it is as if it has not been one day. If one excludes the evaluation, which has been carried out in the meantime with the well-known burdensome terms, it is just as timely as it has not been for any day. This is proof that a further six months has lost the country to so much for its development effort and its course. Meanwhile, the paddocks are multiplying with geometric progress, large investments are slowing or caring, capital controls have haunted, while auctions and confiscations are on the agenda. Nevertheless, the government claims that growth has come and is retarding the figures, surpluses from savage taxes and the cessation of government payments, etheric GDP targets that are always frustrated, and the last tropium is the reduction of unemployment, by counting seasonal parttime work, etc., when at the same time productive jobs and full-time jobs are falling sharply, because the most productive part of the economy is being closed down and dismantled. Precipitation, stagnation, constant austerity. And the 'good left government' makes it fair by sharing whistle here and there. It is the myth, ladies and gentlemen, cultivated by the government until the end of its term of office. The numbers, they want they don't want, they'll prosper. Our wise economists say it too: if you catch bottom, the economy is like a spring, it is ejected. Except the numbers don't fill the stomach, the young man doesn't get a job, the locks aren't gone, you can't get away with the house or the confiscation and he goes by saying. The well-being of numbers can prove useful communal tricks at a time. But when the bill comes, it's demolished, because that's how you don't go over the crisis, you're bypassing it. You're bypassing her, but you're temporarily going back to her right after. And if your commitments are like the ones of the last deal with the lenders, which require great surpluses over decades, only badly wait for the country. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to overcome the crisis, it has been necessary for many years now to have a steady upward growth rate. This also requires a sound production base. The country needs a dynamic relaunch of the economy and the development process, which does not exist. We are ponding, we are living a period of development desertion. What would that mean in practice? Is the reopening of the economy and the development process? A few conditions are also evident for the first-year financial departments of universities: tax relief for businesses, effective regulation of red loans to save what is healthy, and today is in crisis, mobilisation of young entrepreneurship, so as to be able to retain elementarily and develop a new generation of businesses and retain the productive potential in the country, strengthen healthy small and medium-sized enterprises. We have eight hundred thousand businesses from which it is estimated that more than three hundred thousand are healthy. However, we had succeeded or held teeth against the lenders, and you, with the infamously 'hard negotiation', have lost them. And other things had to be done as a matter of urgency since then and you two years have now refused to do so, which means - I repeat - the economy and growth in the country. Above all, however, this relaunch means direct investment and a real resurrection of small and medium-sized enterprises. You don't believe in direct investment. For example, privatisation, obstacles and inconsistencies are the example. There is no need to talk about either the Greek, the Afantou in Rhodes, or about anything else, such as the beginning of an effort and disillusionment at the next moment. There is no need to talk about the sale of public property, which, at the same time, does not go ahead with the correct privatisations required to invade investments in the country. And above all it is the small and medium-sized enterprises where you have decided to make the redistribution, which you cannot get from the big capital, from the middle and down to society. This thing is unfair and anything but the 'fair development for which the Prime Minister is constantly talking about'. Simple things: development is slowing down in the country today with ideologies, inconsistencies, bilingualism and amateurism. It is a pity, because today we absolutely need a development alarm with a reversal of the development model. We must turn to the real economy and the country's productive reconstruction. What would that mean in practice? Firstly, that we need to measure all available resources and redirect them. However, from the Yunker package nothing has come yet, no attempt has been made. We need to adopt new financial instruments, extend the PPPs and the productive sectors of the economy beyond infrastructure. Nothing has been done in this direction. We need to use new European structures and practices and European specific programmes. You are completely ignorant of this whole process which is being done to an enormous extent in the European area today. We must establish a fair and proportionate, but above all stable tax regime that promotes investment and the creation of new jobs. And we live not only in a tax wild west, but we also live in a tax instability without precedent. What is needed is in the philosophy and practice of the government that wants to be called progressive? None of this. To this end, we have been responsible for the dynamic relaunch of growth, for the possibility of reversing it, and so far we have built the infrastructure in the country. And now is the time to turn towards productive reconstruction, to make use of the private sector of the economy, but with absolute protection of the public interest. And with a new role of the state, we are building a new development proposal that we called it "Project Greece" - has been proposed by Fofi Gennimata - and which will truly demarcate the basic choices, priorities, practices and tactics that will be followed and to relaunch development. We are not talking about Greece after, we are talking about Greece now in the crisis and the course of overcoming the crisis with the dynamic relaunch of the economy now. That's in our philosophy and logic. I believe that this plan will really be a new proposal that the Greek people can trust in in the main, the exclusive problem it has today, which is to rerolle the wheel of the economy and growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr. Jellonis, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, at a time of budgetary crisis, the big issue is the development and production of wealth in a country, much more when the country is in recession. This is the anguish of the Democratic Association and has tabled this specific question about the illusion of development from the side of the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. I would like to mention an economic sector which, as is commonly accepted by all, is one of the main sectors of the economy where particular attention must be paid. And I'm talking about the primary sector, about the rural economy. It is a three-dimensional, economic, social, developmental, which contributes to regional development, ensures food adequacy in the country and supports social cohesion. Today, in what environment are Greek farmers operating in? On the one hand, we have uncertain factors created by the open European and global market, with strong reshapings. It is affected by strong climate change, the economic and financial crisis, which increases costs and a market that is not effectively regulated, as is the case with a lack of infrastructure. Is that all? Oh, no. Unfortunately, we also have the endogenous factors that come from the policies of this government. Greek farmers are now also called upon to face the policies of the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, which, due to the lack of a wider government plan for the country's productive and development reconstruction and based clearly on a state-owned concept of development, places everything creative and productive, as well as the primary sector. I will not go into the tax and tax measures that you have imposed on Greek farmers, which result in small and medium-sized farms coming out of production, and in substance create 60% -80% of their income, which they have to pay for taxes and levies. One would expect the government to run and implement the rural NSRP of 4.7 billion, along with national participation and private participation at 6 billion, which also plays a key role in the development of the remaining 14 billion of direct payments. These 20 billion have been found by the previous governments. Let's get this straight. You have simply done nothing, you have not added a single euro in order to help the farmer. And all this is due to your uncertainty, your inability to design and implement, to rule in total, I would say. The Rural Development Programme was last approved in the European Union on 11-12-2015. You have updated this programme, after negotiating in 2015 with the 'baroque' negotiation, redistributed the budgets of the actions and did not increase even by one euro the Community's participation, beyond the 20 billion that were guaranteed. On the contrary, with your own net fault and inertia, 900 million were lost from the previous programme 2007-2014, because you stopped payments in 2015, they became "bridge" and were transferred to the new Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020. Therefore, 900 million, automatically, and the resources and money, which the rural world so needed, were reduced. Now, in terms of absorption for the Rural Development Programme. For 2016, you set EUR 2,28 billion as an absorption target, according to the 2017 budget report. Finally, it was absorbed only EUR 1.61 billion. So, 29.3% below target. More specifically, Greece is the last country among the twenty-seven countries of the European Union to absorb the second pillar, the 6 billion, as it has absorbed only 12% by the end of 2016 and today, with alchemys, we are at 17%, and again much below the Community average. In order to present absorption, you have, in front of you, made a subsidy policy, through the payment of the compensatory 335 million in total of the 700 that you paid. But I ask you: When the balancing is 650 million by 2020, what will you give from now on to Greek farmers and farmers in disadvantaged areas? As for the programmes you have announced, there is still a lack of planning and strategy and lack of care on your part. The programme for organic farming and organic livestock is designed for the knee. It has evolved into fiasco, you have given three extensions without having the required budget, which has led to thousands of farmers being excluded. Why were you mocking the farmers and calling on them to apply again and again? By dragging the budget, and from 400 million to 220 million you have given them a call again, and they are still waiting for it after three years that organic farming and agriculture had to start. For young farmers after starting, after three successive extensions, the evaluation was only completed yesterday. I would like to tell you, however, that the rough design here also appears. Two thousand sixty-three were integrated in the region of Central Macedonia and a thousand hundred and thirty-four were rejected, with the preconditions. Why? Because you did not make a proper allocation of funds. And even though we stressed that you could increase the funds by 20%, which you could, 'for young farmers not to be excluded', you are the ones who are tempting. For improvement plans, an important measure for the creation and modernisation of agricultural holdings is announced every month and a new starting date is announced. You have made a rough pre-publishment, but when the programme for improvement plans is published and opened is still unknown. There's nothing wrong with nitrate pollution. Instead of running the 2017 program, it was transferred from your side to 2018-2019. The measures for innovation and rural education had to be "run" from yesterday and they were already unabsorbed. Why, too, do you not take the measure of agricultural advisers, and there is such a delay when the new geotechnics need to support Greek farmers with their knowledge? As for the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme, absorption is only 1%, i.e. 2.7 million of the 101 million total. The processing in April was invited for the action, and the one for the half programme. What took you so long? But, above all, why does the program choose to start with the big ones at a time of capital control starting from 600,000 or more? What about small and medium-sized enterprises and crafts in the agri-food sector of 100,000, 150,000, 200,000? What about the measures concerning ELGA and the protection of the production and income of farmers? These are also specific measures, concerning protection from climate change and changes in the market, to support the income of the Greek farmer. No move. For rural tourism, Leader and not even a word, as for the European Innovation Partnerships. For the little irrigation? Nothing at all. For the collective forms of farmers' organization, for the producer groups nothing at all. I would like to say, and I would like to say that the absence of financial instruments at the moment and the failure to access the banking system now discourages investors, especially in the agricultural sector. That is why a new design is required on your part. What was envisaged as financial instruments through the AAS and the Juncker Plan for the agri-food sector, with the possibility of cooperating with the European Investment Bank, could finance, on favourable terms, farmers to participate in the various programmes. We're a pigeon here, too! Just a month ago you signed with the European Investment Bank for specific financial instruments where the evaluation will take place after eight months, when Romania has already absorbed through this action 87 million, Italy 105, Ireland 100 and they are completing the evaluation of other European Union countries. Let me remind you, Minister, that, due to the tightening of the new Rural Development Programme in 2018, there will be an assessment of investments. And if you are like now and then slow in the targets, the country will lose not only the resources from the 'current' disposals, but will also be charged, in other words, 'pinal' for the first three years, up to 180 million. But I guess they don't touch you because you're sure you won't be a government. Unfortunately, however, for the Greek farmer, as great as the government's failure to effectively absorb Community funds and to support the primary sector in a design and strategy, the greater the daily evidence of the deception of farmers and farmers. You are the destructive Roundup for agricultural income and the rural economy, you are the main responsibility for the destruction of the rural economy and there is no search and overlap of your responsibilities from the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u91	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. You are the main protagonists of the well-being of life, effort and labor of Greek farmers. But Greek farmers will succeed and survive because they have a real soul and they have learned to fight. But you don't have a soul to understand society, but you don't know what to say. That's why you're divorced from growth and production. But your time is running out, it is coming to an end. Greek society and much more the Greek farmer can no longer stand for you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I'll use my dentistry too. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled the question of growth in the worst post-multiple government, to the government that has reduced duty-free, which has increased the insurance contributions, which has reduced pensions, which has been subscribing the country for ninety-nine years, to the government that has auctioned the first home of poor and medium-sized households. Do you remember the "no house in the hands of a banker" of Mr. Tsipras? And now electronic auctions, with a button losing his house the poor and the middle. Gentlemen of the Government, to be serious: You will account for your crimes in the first half of 2015, you will account for Greek justice and for your criminal responsibilities for the 100 billion euros that the "baroufakia" has cost us. After it was revealed that President Putin told President Holland that Mr. Tsipras asked for the assistance of Russia to go to the drachma, yesterday was the golden-handed Mr. Glen Kim, your Korean advisor, and revealed the second crime against the Greek people: You had a ready bankruptcy plan, a normal plan B, a bankruptcy plan of the country planned and prepared. Criminal responsibilities will be sought. Yesterday we had another irresistible behaviour of the first-class ministers. Here in this Chamber, we were called Poppas, Tsipras, Voutsis, all that technically - you know - in the spectrum there are only four television licenses. Only four, according to the famous Institute of Florence. And yesterday the National Broadcasting Council says "seven". From four to seven, Minister, it is an increase of 75%. When the lie turns out to be a great deal, how much does the lie have to be to give up a minister who says unregulated lies here in this Chamber? We expect to see the measure of SYRIZA. We, ladies and gentlemen, are very clear. We propose new sources of wealth for Greek citizens, a new state and not the party state with the Karanika, a new, unbroken, perfect state that will save 1 billion euros every year from its proper operation. We propose to make full use of public property through social dividends. EUR 150 billion can be invested in the next few years, if properly exploited, public property, with employment clauses, with a local utility clause, with a clause on environmental protection, with a clause on intergenerational solidarity. Another huge, tragic mistake of SYRIZA was revealed yesterday when he voted against the contracts for Greek hydrocarbons. It is revealed by ELPE that for the next forty years every year the Greek State, the National Insurance System, will receive EUR 2 billion of hydrocarbons research to ensure the country's insurance system. And the Social Solidarity Fund Act SYRIZA voted against him, against the Greek pensioners. But to get through some of the flags of government. The flag of the Greek economy is tourism. I will testify for the Practical Today's Publications of "Kathemerini", which says how Greek tourism is going. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, - he was the Prime Minister yesterday at the tourist business link - in the first quarter of 2017 - they are elements of the Bank of Greece - we had a decrease in Greece's number of tourists by 4.2%. What did the other countries do in the first quarter of 2017? In Spain, tourists increased by 11.6%, in Portugal by 15.4%, in Bulgaria by 16.7%, in Malta by 22.9%. And in order not to forget it, in Greece we had a decrease of 4.2%. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are capable of destroying even Greek tourism. May I give you an example of why you are capable of destroying even Greek tourism? Tourism exists where, apart from tax rates, there is an organised space, there is a spatial plan. The spatial tourism, which has been ready since May 2015, not only have you promoted it, but you have not even set up the National Spatial Planning Council to recommend it. Who will make a tourist investment, when he knows that there is no regional tourism, that we have delivered to you, and when there are not even the ready, we have given you, twelve regional planning plans for the 12 regions of the country? And let me go to the second, you know, in this element of SYRIZA's supposed social sensitivity. The government is well aware of sharing piles with the poor in the middle class and the low pensioners. What he doesn't say is what he doesn't do for growth. I will only refer to the 'I'm saving at home' programme and what we have delivered ready: forty thousand homes of poor households. We have invested in these homes 500 million, we have created 12 000 jobs and saved these forty thousand poor families up to 500 euros a year, every year, and for all the following years 500 euros each year from less energy consumption. We handed you the next 1.5 billion-dollar budget package ready, on the Juncker package, and what have you been doing two and a half years? Absolutely nothing. Sleep, nirvana, lurking, incompetence, indifference, all 'in the air'! Now you promise us that in September 2017 you will publish it. We don't believe in you here either. Two and a half years dead for the Greek construction, not to mention public works anymore. And because I have here and Mr. Koutsoukos from Elia, to say only about the famous "Kalogitsa Channel", "SYRIZA Channel", the famous contractor in eight, which was broken by Mr. Spirtzis, the Patras - Tower, and yet none of the eight contractors have joined the NSRC, and now the government itself is changing the technical features of the project, is minimizing the project. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Gentlemen of the government, you are a group of opportunists and persecutors. You work with the far right of Kammenos, the isovite interlocutor. You are a paradox and abstract, which threatens top judges of the Council of State and of the Court of Auditors when making decisions that you do not like. You're the government that's falling apart. Yesterday, poll results were published on what citizens feel about you: 62% rage, 56% shame, 38% fear of the Tsipras - Kammenos government. You live your Pompey. In this disaster, however, you will not lure the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor now. Mr. Kutsuko, will you use your dentistry as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u95	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u96	So you have eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the development stagnation in the country, I think the previous Members of the Democratic Alliance spoke in detail. The NRP, the Rural Development Programme, the Juncker Package, put in place what SYRIZA told us has over 40 billion resources to make growth. That's what they told us when they became government. With foreign stitches, they accounted for because those were packages the previous ones had negotiated. It has been shown that they cannot be managed either. What happens on the market, what happens in agricultural production, what happens with the development and the investment climate, is all known and recorded. The government in the budget, which voted for 2017, thought we would have 2.7% growth. We said then, without being miserable and disastrous, that this objective is not just an optimistic one, but it is a desire that is not going to happen. And we have documented it by analysing the elements that make up growth, GDP, private consumption, investment, balance, everything. The government has just been forced to land here. In the medium term it voted, along with the other commitments it calculates growth to 1,9% for 2017. And now, serious international organisations are coming and they are landing it further at 1.5% and we are seeing it. Therefore, the expected growth, beyond what I and my colleagues have said, at the macroeconomic level does not seem to be achieved. Is growth not linked to the macroeconomic and budgetary environment? What is this macroeconomic and budgetary environment in which these growth rates can be achieved and this relaunching the economy? It is an environment that takes resources away from the economy and society. The government after the adventures of the first six months of 1915 - the well-known "barefalakia" - which cost the country 86 billion, I said during the discussion of the 1916 budget from this Step, 100 billion people said Mr Regling, and we had reasoned, we said how much the loss of GDP was, how much the outcomes of the deposits, we had all quantified, landed. It came in the second half of the 1915s and we were told by Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Juliarakis, the theorists of development, for the reduction of the primary and the 'air' of 20 billion, with which they would turn resources into development and social policy. That's what they told us then, that's what theory was. This theory for the reasons of the intentions of the government incapacity and the constant retreat in an endless negotiation with defeatal characteristics has been overthrown and from the reduction of the primarys we have gone to increasing the primarys to 3.5% by 2022 and 2% in the biennials. Third Memorandum of Understanding 12.5 billion, fourth Memorandum of Understanding 4,9 billion, cumulative measures exceeding 17.5 billion. In this environment there can be no growth, it is obvious. I shall add some other elements, apart from what my colleagues have said. At the end of the year the public debts will be 100 billion. Why? Doesn't anybody wonder? They increase at a rate of 1 billion each month. The public currently owes private individuals 5 billion. Mr. Juliarakis, when we asked him 'how will you catch these growth rates?', said us 'when we pay the dues, this creates a growth of 1%'. Obviously, they were words 'air', such as the government's budgetary 'air'! We live in the environment of capital control, which is signed by SYRIZA. Mr Varoufakis tried in his communication yesterday to charge it to the European Central Bank, but he has your signature, the signature of the Ministers of the Government of SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras personally. Obviously, with the fact that the government failed to achieve these resources that were removed from the economy, the 6.9 billion primary surplus in 2016, to turn them towards society, to improve the conditions of private consumption, but also to the public investment programme, which remains at the lowest levels ever, it is evident that there is no budgetary and macroeconomic environment favourable to growth. To this, if we add the political climate, the backwards of the government and the ideals, it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the country will not be relaunched. You've lost all opportunities, you've exhausted all possibilities. Can I tell you something else, Minister, since you are attracting your origin from Western Greece? Let us use this as an example. You did not deal with what you and I were dealing with. I remember that when Mr. Maniatis, who came down from Stepma, came to the Tower to present the plan for the recovery of hydrocarbons, SYRIZA gathered out, with your current MPs in front and yelling, exulting because we were selling public property. You were in the back, and you were organizing it. Now you have a tolerance that says "go investment, create an investment climate" and you can't. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that changing the way in which the country is governed, that is to say, a political strategy, is entirely linked to development, because there is a national understanding that will mobilise the productive forces of the country. This must ensure a stable investment environment and incentives for investment. It must ensure a national tax reduction plan and a stable tax system, it must ensure a new social agreement, which is necessary for us to mobilise these powers. These are in the "Greece" project presented by Mr. Costas Scandalidis with openness and completeness earlier. I think that this is the key to development, because otherwise the country is caught in a deadlock which has to do with the commitments you have made over the long term for the country and which the next government will have to manage, which, according to polls, will be New Democracy. Your struggle, your confrontation with the New Democracy today is accounting in nature, it is about the composition of revenue and expenditure, and the country needs to be exceeded and this is only exceeded by changing correlations and changing the way of governance we can achieve. That is why we in the Democratic Association of all our proposals to solve the problem, as we have developed it on all issues, are combining it with this political strategy which is conditional on changing political correlations. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u98	And we'll keep time. Mr. Gregorakos has the floor. Your time, Mr. Gregoraco, is three minutes plus two.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u99	I will take all the time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u100	Okay. You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about something that does not exist. What does not exist is growth. The country has no growth, and that is paradoxical. So we have a winter economy, which is in a state of desertification. I'll talk about the health field, the social state, etc. This whole tsunami of overtaxation, Mr Minister, has created suffocating conditions on the market in any market. Health is always a development area. Also, welfare and social state have within them the concept of growth. You strangled, Minister, as government, the National Health System. You strangled the hospitals. You strangled the private health sector. You raised the money, you owe them the money in the world, and you don't give it to them. These days we see on TVs what is going to happen with children at daycare stations. When we were in the government - then I was in the Ministry of Interior - we were pulling our tramps from you. You've been all day underneath. So I will tell you what Mr Koutsoukos said earlier, that we are not underneath it. You were the ones who prevented us from moving forward. When we went, as ministers, visitors to hospitals or went to the municipalities, we found you in the front. You were ahead. You didn't let us in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u102	Tolls too!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u103	We, therefore, Mr Minister, have never prevented you. We told you: 'Go ahead'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Did time already pass before I came to the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u104	Time is inexorable, Mr. Gregoraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u105	Yeah. My Minister, everything I'm telling you is development. When mother and father have children at home because they can't go to a nursery station, you deprive them of growth. You won't let them work. Mrs Fotio comes out in this terrible advertisement on television and radio and says 'children, we are not crooks'. We didn't say you were cheating. I'll never use that phrase. But I will tell you that you are not capable of dealing with the big problems of the country. So neither investment nor all that was necessary and sufficient treaty. That's not the government's concern. They do not touch this short-sighted idealism you have, with your micropolitical, ideoleptic, state-of-the-art orientation. The state sector, Minister, consumes resources. Inside it, however, it has the meaning of growth, that is, we must have good health structures, good state structures and all that is needed to build all the things that are necessary for people to be psychologically good, so that they can work, be able to get ahead. But that's what you've strangled. You do not let the private sector get ahead to create jobs and be able to pay our insurance system. What can I say now? For your adviser to Korea, my colleagues have said so a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u106	He's still a consultant. He's in the ministry with Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u107	Yes, sir. Well, what can I say? These are the real needs of the economy. That is not all, Madam President. I want to tell you my complaint. You're a left-wing government. Yes, you did this "conscious" you did. Did you do so, but did you, the day before, elect as Vice-President of Parliament, a homophobic MP, who will cause you problems in the European Union, who blames the Prime Minister of Belgium and the left-wing Members of Parliament for electing him? What happened is unprecedented. No one to talk from you? What's this? Well, with regard to the demilitarisation program, we now see a problem. You were yelling for the PPA. You have again created a start there for the ports. You take us back - the Greek front - back, a schizoid situation. One says so, the other says otherwise. There's nothing going on because you don't want to move on. It's not your DNA, bro. It's not your DNA to invest in Greece. You don't want them. Anyway, we understand that since the day you took over, we see daily stories of madness. We know that we have always been aware that in the country, in the country in which we live and in which we also know, the state machine was dealing with major issues with bureaucracy, which was keeping the investments back. But efforts had been made to modernise. I remember the then Minister, Christodoulakis, who had tried to do something. Then there was, I remember, a Minister of George, who said "in one day fast track so that the next day we can invest." Here you, where are you a young man, see this: Go get a license to open a business and get his livers and pockets out. We're with you. Go ahead and if you find one of our own party to be against what is reformist, innovative, with regard to the development of the country, I would like you to come and find me personally, Minister, to tell you whether there is such a thing in the area we are at least managing, in the area of Central Left, in the area of the reform centre. We cannot therefore talk about growth and investment, when the level of taxes and contributions you have imposed is unbearable. I'll tell you this: He wants a doctor to go to work on a second job today with his shirt. The wages are very good. With the block, when it goes to work - for example with 2 000 per month - this doctor, the health worker, will have to pay contributions and pay an advance of 1,600. So, is a doctor going to work for 400 euros a month? That can't be. So here's how you're barricade growth, break the jobs. I shall conclude, because the President has shown me a tolerance. I would therefore like to say this: the country must, of course, enter into development. There's no more room. He's reached the bottom. So we're gonna have to get in, and we're gonna help get in, because we're interested in the country. All sacrifices made in previous years must be taken place and we do not want yours to be lost in your hands. We do not want the Greek economy to shrink anymore. We know that there are advantages in the primary sector for the country's productive reconstruction. We know we have real advantages. My colleagues have told them. Yannis Maniotis said it about the natural environment. Michael Jellonis said it about the rural economy. We have problems, but we can develop much more and better tourism. So we need to see all this together. We won't be toward you. We'll be with you. After all, we asked it so that we could mobilise the ministers and the government as much as possible and see where the country's development is going. My dear Minister, we are not seeing her. If you're kind enough to explain it to us now that you're going to take the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u108	Last of the honourable Members' questions, Mr Papatheodorou. You, Mr Papatheodorou, have the floor for three plus two, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in any normal country the link between the economy, development and justice is self-evident and given. So because today we have to discuss the facts of the government all this time since you took over the country's governance at the level of this association, that is, what you have done in the field of justice in order to facilitate the economic development of the country, we have to see that since the first time you took up your duties, the main concern of the government was to move against justice. What does "anti-responsive" mean? It means that the actions taken so far in relation to the functioning of justice were to find the government against it: intimidation of judges, interventions in the leadership of justice, guidance of some of the most serious cases. Instead of strengthening the institutions, you have ideologically moved, as you have already done, in a conflict with justice, in order either to control its decisions or on the other hand to create conditions of status for your own governance. But things seem to be developing very negatively for the country, precisely because there was no reform in the field of justice. Greece, according to the World Bank, finds itself in Europe for the time it takes to resolve the application of a convention, but also the fourth by the end of the world between a hundred and ninety countries. At the same rate as in Greece today, it takes an average of 1,580 days or over four years to resolve a trade dispute in the courts. According to this, only Afghanistan and Guinea need more time. In Europe, the average corresponding time is 486 days in the OECD 533 days. Even in relation to the OECD countries, we need three times the time. It is disappointing, too, to remain for the time and the country's performance in terms of the time needed to complete bankruptcy procedures. The study by the BSE Business Environment Observatory two years ago points out that the savings that can result from the shorter completion of the process by three years - that is, from 11.3 years today to 8.3 years - could add to GDP 0.3%. So today we are faced with a situation where, on the one hand, justice is not working in development, businesses cannot rely on justice, there is no solution to the disputes in an extrajudicial way, no reform to speed up justice has been carried out so far and, on the other hand, this process is coming to run counter to one question: When you took over, you had almost all the reform of the codes ready. To date you tell us that from one month to the other they will come to be voted on by the House. It's like the growth that always comes and never arrives. The country's objective, therefore, to protect and enhance significantly today the entrepreneurship, investment incentives, attraction of foreign capital and investment, should be to strengthen the business and economic environment with legal certainty. This means a rapid resolution of differences in investment, an effective response to corruption and a fight against crime, equal access to justice services to avoid using the judiciary as a means of unfair competition. What does all this mean? They mean that today it needs a brave reform of justice, so that the country's development can be liberated. Genuine reform means new institutions. Genuine reform means freedom of judicial material from chronic problems. For all this to date, the government has not brought a bill. Two and a half years now is the only thing that has been done in this House is to ratify a series of European directives and only two bills which were essential in terms of changing current law. But that does not mean speeding up justice. Acceleration of justice means above all that we can invent, invent and implement procedures that will take the country out of the dawn, give the citizen a chance, give equality to the parties and, above all, justice to what they ask of the courts every time. To this end, i.e. the country's economic and business development, immediate priority should be given to the reform of the institutional framework, its adaptation to the new social and economic data that are crisis data, and to the strengthening of alternative methods of dispute resolution, such as mediation or criminal negotiation. In all of this, the government has so far given no answer. Two-and-a-half years now, reform of justice remains a matter of urgency, and yet it is a condition for the development of the country. I think that this is linked to the next day, since you have proved completely inactive, but in any case incapable of thinking how you can link the administration of justice to the economic development of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u110	Now the Minister has the floor. Minister, your time is twenty minutes for protology, ten minutes for dentology and five for tritology. Do you want to use the protology? I'll give you 20 minutes and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Since the Members of Parliament, as I understand it, have spent their time and they will not be second-guessed, I do not think there is any reason for me to speak too. Ladies and gentlemen, my assessment is that the signatories to the topical question we are debating today were looking forward to a very different development than the ones that have eventually happened in recent months. They were probably expecting the second assessment not to be closed, they were looking forward to the collapse of the economy and, consequently, rapid political developments, which would quickly bring them back, as they hoped, to power. In other words, this topical question also applies to the overall climate of catastrophe, which has been cultivated not only in recent months, but throughout the two years of governance of SYRIZA. However, the expectations have been misguided. The government has reached an agreement which, on the one hand, gives way to the Greek economy - and this is already reflected in the response that this agreement has from the markets - but also links - and this is very important - the fundamental structural problem of the Greek economy, the debt issue and the country's development prospects. It connects it by including important development provisions, such as the Development Bank and the development countermeasures, which fortify and strengthen this development. We have achieved all this by negotiating hard, in the light of the interests of the country and of the social majority, which the previous governments have never done. We certainly did not achieve it by following your own advice to close the evaluation as - as, by taking what we were given, satisfying the irrational requirements of lenders. The authors of this timely question, however, also looked forward to the collapse of the economy. It is the same estimate that has been repeated once again since 2015 and which, yet once again, is frustrated by reality. The figures for the last few months show a recovery of the Greek economy, which is steadily strengthened by the month. It is not only the growth rate of the first quarter of 2017-0.4% - which is positive, it is also a number of qualitative indicators, which, in our opinion, are more important and show the prospect for the next period: it is the increase in industrial production by 24.5% and 10.7% in March and April 2017 compared to the corresponding months of the previous year. It is the 17.9% increase in exports in the four months of January - April 2017 compared to 2016. For the first time in years, the increase in retail volumes has been. It is the spectacular increase in foreign direct investment by 237% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to that in 2016. These are the official figures from the Bank of Greece. Of course, the most important of all is the gradual de-escalation, the gradual decline in unemployment. It has been announced, as you know very well, in the last days of April 2017 that it has fallen by 21.7% and the creation of new jobs. As announced this morning by the ERGANS system, there was a new record in creating new jobs. Of course, this whole environment doesn't make us celebrate. We are fully aware that the situation for the social majority remains very difficult. That is why in the Ministry of Economy, as a whole in the government, we are striving every day for these positive macroeconomic indicators to be rapidly transformed into tangible results in the real economy and in the real improvement of the lives of the citizens. However, one would expect that, given this framework that I have just described, questions like this one, which would try to table proposals, recognise this improvement in climate, and try to build on it to make the economic environment even more positive in the next period. Instead, ladies and gentlemen, we have a topical question, which I dare say contains too many lies and inaccurate questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u112	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u113	Really. I shall refer very specifically to this. I'm going to override personally invaded reports of my face. These are the authors of the question, and I leave it in the Members' judgement. I'll move on to the point. It seems to me that the seven Members of the Democratic Integration who have already been put on the table have referred only to the key issues raised by the question. But I shall refer to it. I'm starting with the NSA. You're ordering us for low absorption of the NRW. That's what your question says. Really, I'm wondering. Wasn't there even one incremental investigation to see the official evidence before you submitted this question? See exactly what the data are, not ours, but the official figures from the European Commission tables, which show that for the NSRF 2007-2013 we are first in absorption, we have full absorption of the relevant resources, and for the NSRF 2014-2020 we are the first country to activate the relevant programmes. Once again - I have done so before, but it seems that I have to repeat it - the relevant documents in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Alexandros Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] This first is even greater if we consider the tragic situation we received in the NSRF at the beginning of 2015. Absorption was particularly low. I am referring to specific programmes, to talk more specifically, such as the digital convergence programme, a programme that is often discussed in relation to e-government projects and the need to reform public administration. This programme, therefore, at the beginning of 2015, had only 60% of the available resources, and indeed, with many scandals and research by the ILO, the prosecutor and the European Anti-Fraud Office, the well-known OLAF. So, you see, our predecessors managed Community programmes. On the contrary, within a year, by the end of 2015, we reached this programme, like all others, at a absorption of 100%. Even worse - and this is the contradiction between the way in which it was managed in previous years - in other programmes we had overcompensations which reached EUR 6 billion. In fact, in the last few months, before the January 2015 elections, we have had a series of projects in the ESRB programmes that reached EUR 2 billion - I am referring to the period December 2014 and January 2015 up to the last day, Friday 23 January 2015 - which did not have the slightest study maturity and no provision for their funding. I am tabling the relevant tables in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Alexandros Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Basically these overcompensations of 6 billion, in order to know exactly what we are talking about, constituted a budgetary bomb on the foundations of the Greek economy, which we - and this is what we - had to do to deactivate, as the programmes were, by resenting projects which had no economic and social meaning and by ensuring the resources for the really necessary and mature projects so that they could be implemented. In relation to major projects, I am surprised that the question, for example, is not raised in the text of the question on the major roads, with the five concessions for motorways. I would remind you that we are talking about projects that were already under the Third Community Support Framework for the period 2000-2006, which were stuck and that the country ran the very visible risk in March 2017 to return to the European Commission EUR 3 billion, i.e. money that it received in all previous years, precisely because of the uncertainty and delay of the previous governments in the implementation of these projects. So what did we do? We have unblocked the funding in question, relaunched these projects and completed them with complete success. As a member of the Democratic Incorporation was mentioned before overall in public works, I believe that it is a great hypocrisy to talk about public works in the NSRP - it has also been mentioned in specific projects, in the Patras tower project, which is the only major road project that has been included in the new NSRP - when especially in the infrastructure programme we had overcompensations that amounted to 260%. To say this very simply, for EUR 100 available in the budget for this programme, even before the start of the implementation of the programme, projects totalling EUR 260 had been included by the previous governments to understand exactly what the whole plan was. In the new NSRF, however, Law No.4314, which was passed in 2014, was an empty shell law. It was not fulfilled when we received the management of the programmes, nor was one twenty of the institutional, administrative and other actions needed to enable the new programming period of the ESDP programmes. We, on the contrary, quickly completed all the necessary actions, and as a result, at the end of 2015, Greece should be the first and only country in the European Union that had activated the whole of sectoral and regional programmes. Another important priority for our country, which you are unfortunately overlooking. Furthermore, the activation of these new programmes has already gone on to a very significant extent and it is once again surprising that you are ignoring the official facts or doing what you are ignoring them. In 2016, then, we had an absorption of 11.35% of the available Community funds for the whole programming period, while the objective that had been set together with the European Commission was 7% absorption. Of course, in order to have a comparison measure, which is important for the Greek people too, the absorption rate at the respective point of the previous programming period was 1.5%. From 1.5% to 11.35% and yet you talk about the improvement of the new ESDP programmes. In fact, according to the figures that we have only received from the European Commission in the last few days, the total inputs to the country from the new NSRP programmes, from the NSRP 2014-2020, amount to EUR 3.5 billion. However, what is important, in our opinion, is that we had the political will and took the political initiative to radically reform the structure and framework of the ESRB. We have electronicised and simplified all procedures, have strengthened transparency and integrity in all programmes and have opened the ESDP in society. With targeted tools, such as the open deposit account, which has now begun the payment of the relevant investment projects, which allows the advance payment without bank guarantee to be disbursed, we have made the NSRF available for the first time in popular and young productive strata, which have so far been excluded. In addition, the main aim was to upgrade the social pillar of the NSRP. I would remind you that from the co-financed programmes we are financing a number of social services which had been devastated in the previous period, such as the recruitment of assistant teachers. Last year, for the first time, we completed these procedures in time and all the assistant teachers were in place to open schools in time. The positions at the children's stations were financed. You will allow me here, because there has been a lot of discussion these days on the issue of nurseries, to say that for the first time this year we have ninety-three thousand places. So ninety - three thousand children will be placed in the nurseries, and indeed, with social and economic criteria. For the first time, we have more than 205 million, specifically, allocated to this programme, and for the first time also, we have so much involvement from national resources, because our aim is to be gradually able - and that is what we have been doing in recent years - to finance these programmes from national resources. It is 133 million from national resources in this programme. It seems to me that you are criticising this programme, when you know very well that we have a very characteristic example of what happened over the past few years. Because the issue of children stations is not a question of funding, it is a question of the existence of the necessary structures. What, then, has happened over the past few years, over the period of fat cows, in relation to the creation of structures that could be hosted by these children across the country? Absolutely nothing. All the above, the initiatives that we are taking are also part of the development and social area in an integrated development plan aimed at changing the production model. We emphasise the regeneration of industry and processing on new solid bases and the utilization of the country's highly educated human resources with programmes and investment in research and innovation and their connection to production and business. It is a development plan that lays the foundations for sustainable and socially just development so that people's money can finally get a place and not be squandered, as has happened in the past. Another issue raised in the question and to which you did not put yourself in your suggestions is the question of financial instruments. This is where hypocrisy really exists. You claim we found ready financial tools from you, which we did not activate. I say, for the sake of knowledge, that there is no sign of truth in this claim. The only thing that we found in the Ministry of Economy, when we took over, was the financial instruments that you had "parked" EUR 1.5 billion, without the necessary steps being taken to reach this money in the real economy. We unblocked these resources and directed them in time to the real needs of the economy. Of course, we have gone from zero to set up a series of new financial instruments. There was no study, as was no agreement with the committee. This is something that you could cross-check, if you would like with the European Commission itself in relation to the new funds that we have designed. I am referring to the 'EquiFund', the 'Infrastructure Fund', the 'Security Fund', the 'Investment Fund', i.e. the 'EquiFund', which, as the responsible manager, the CEO of the European Investment Fund has recently informed us, is the largest corresponding fund that is currently being implemented throughout Europe. All these are tools which we have designed in full over the last two years and are making progress in their implementation. Overall, from these new investment initiatives, more than EUR 3 billion will be mobilised, which will finance public and private infrastructure throughout the country, companies with an emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises, energy savings of private dwellings, as well as public and municipal buildings for the first time, research and innovation and their connection to production. Instead of trying to indulge in the work that has been done over the last two years, it would be better to be more polite and careful in their statements, because they are exposed inside and outside the country. As far as the Juncker project is concerned, which has been put into some of the positions of the rapporteurs for the Democratic Partnership, you are also wrong here. It is very simple to look at the European Commission's site to see that Greece is in the first positions of the countries to absorb the relevant resources after the five major European economies, because, as you know, the Juncker project is a competitive plan for all European economies. Already through the infrastructure and innovation window, a funding of EUR 1 billion has been approved for eight projects, which, with the leverage involved, will lead to investments of more than EUR 2 billion, and it has been approved for small and medium-sized enterprises of approximately EUR 500 million to intermediate banks and that bank contribution will reach EUR 1 billion. However, beyond the Juncker Plan, because we have made use of the strategic cooperation that we have developed with the European Investment Bank in 2016, we have entered into agreements with the bank of EUR 2.4 billion a year, the largest amount of agreements for the time of the crisis, of which - and this is very important - EUR 1.4 billion have already been disbursed and channelled into the real economy. This year, these disbursements from the European Investment Bank will reach EUR 2 billion. With these funds we finance important infrastructure projects, such as the Athens Metro Line 4, development projects in municipalities throughout the country, small and medium-sized enterprises to invest and strengthen their extroversion, for example, with a special programme to facilitate exports, 'Trace Finance'. We also implement an agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, EBRD, from which Greek companies are already borrowed. Overall, from the work that has been done at the Ministry over the last two years, funds amounting to EUR 11 billion have been mobilised and channelled into the economy by Community programmes, which - and this you have omitted - is recognised by a special reference to the Eurogroup decision of 15 June. However, because we believe that the recovery of fiscal sovereignty presupposes the existence of a strong and firm national programme for public investment, which has, over the past few years, been reduced to an unprecedented extent, we have gone on strengthening it. In 2017 and 2018, it will have an annual budget of EUR 1 billion and in 2019 it will reach EUR 1.6 billion. I will also correct the rapporteur who said that the whole budget for 2017 is EUR 5.3 billion, national and co-financed. The real number is 6.75 billion euros. What I am referring to with the figures, with the progress in implementing the programmes, with the increase in the national public investment programme, is also known in the real economy and in society. You could ask your own people, who are active in chambers, who are active in self-government, to inform you of the very important work that has been done in all previous years. In your study, however, to deceive the work of the Ministry and the Government, you delete reality and make claims clearly false that expose you. I now come to an issue that is very important - it has also been raised by some of the rapporteurs - and it has to do with the new development law. There the situation was worse than the one we received in the ESDP programmes. We had a service, the Directorate-General for Private Investment, our Ministry, the Ministry of Economy, which was essentially dismantled, subordinated, with the majority of the employees calling for their transfer, mainly inactivated by scandals. Because of these scandals, in fact, the DGI, the Directorate-General for Private Investment, is still under control by the prosecutors, the ILO and OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Authority. In fact, because of these scandals, the agency responsible for implementing the development law had lost the possibility of using European funds. In other words, the funding had been frozen precisely because of the corruption phenomena. Haven't you heard of that? Do you not know who they are that led to the agency responsible for development law in this situation? It was also impossible to set up control bodies for investment aided by development laws, because the members of the committees had not even gone through education and their remuneration was so low, only EUR 30 per investment. And many times they had to control investments of many millions, which you understand creates even more, if you want, doubts and leaves room for mismanagement cases. In relation to the laws themselves, and here we have also seen the phenomenon of the NSRF: superficial overcompensation of EUR 6 billion, the financial projects were part of the total amount, particularly in the 2004 Development Act, Law 3299, with no provision whatsoever for their funding. But the biggest problem with old development laws - I am referring to the last three, mainly, in 1998, 2004 and 2011 - was the complete failure to implement them. There was no plan where production should be directed, no targeting, so that these laws would have a minimal impact on the structure of the economy. The contribution of these development laws to address the structural weaknesses of the Greek economy - the small average size of the Greek company, the low extroversion, the decline in industrial and manufacturing activity, the limited investment in research and technology - was from small to non-existent. These poor results were more than expected, given the planning that has been done for these laws. The vast majority of aid has been directed to very few projects. It is characteristic that 1 billion euros was granted to six just investments. 95% of the projects subsidised by these laws were low-tech, while only two subsectors - very large hotels and photovoltaics - received three quarters of all investments. And all this at a time when more than EUR 12 billion of state aid has been provided through these laws over the last 15 years. A more characteristic indicator, in our view, of this complete failure is the required indicator of investment to jobs. Do you know how much it cost every job created by these development laws? It cost 323,000 euros. In other words, 1,3 billion euros of State aid were granted and only six thousand new jobs were created in the last law in 2011. That was the success of the former governments' development policy! Our own development law is moving to the opposite side of all this, setting clear development goals, sharing the same priorities with the other financial instruments, the ESDP and the funds that have been mentioned earlier and focusing on areas that are crucial to the country's productive development, such as industry, manufacturing and information technology. In just a few months' operation - to see where we are today - and only the four of the eight new law regimes, more than eight hundred projects have been tabled for a total of EUR 2 billion. And here, I can only point out that I have read with surprise another very curious point of your question. You ask the government for the fact that the new law has very little acceptance. Eight hundred investment projects, totalling 2 billion, while in the previous law of 2011, in four years, we had a thousand seventy projects. Well, elementary math, I think, they're giving the answer. More important, however, for us are the quality elements of this new law, this new very important investment instrument. And because it has been mentioned, but more unfortunately, as a wish by some of the rapporteurs, the need to turn to productive activities, to productive investments, so let me know that more than half of the projects that have already been submitted concern the industry and manufacturing sector criticals. The vast majority of the projects concern very small, small and medium-sized enterprises. While about half of the proposals - and this is very important, because it also shows a change of logic in relation to the past - applicants for exemption rather than aid. This is particularly important because it links the aid with real efficiency over time. It is now the end of the logic, which prevailed in the past, of the arrogant aid, of the huge advances for projects of dubious quality and even more dubious efficiency. Of course, because this has been set up and we are responding with concrete elements, the issue of decentralisation of production activity. Just 10% of all investment projects concern the Attica Law. All the rest are located in the entire territory of the country. And of course with the new law we have ensured that the investment projects of previous laws are repaid, the sins that have been inherited from the previous governments. Finally, through a number of institutional and organisational interventions, we are cleaning up the relevant service, we are making it possible to manage Community funds, update and extend the register of auditors and assessors, and we are, of course, increasing their remuneration, so that they can respond to this very important task. Since I am already abusing time, I will try to close down by saying this: The reality, ladies and gentlemen of the Democratic Partnership, is very different in relation to investments and financial instruments, which we manage in the Ministry of Economy, from the destructive picture you present in the text of your question. For the first time we have created a financing system, which is objective, transparent and on the basis of a comprehensive fruitful development plan. Together with other interventions in the institutional field that we have advanced in the previous period - I mention features of bills, laws more than the state, to simplify the procedures for setting up and licensing their enterprises, thereby defending the public interest in the real operating conditions, to secure an independent national accreditation body, the ECHR, which ensures the country's imports, the out-of-court settlement mechanism that relieves thousands of companies, the new more friendly framework for strategic investments completed in July - we lay the foundations for a substantial recovery of the economy for fair and sustainable development. We're obviously not doing everything perfectly. Obviously there is a lot more to do, which needs to be done. And we would perhaps expect the anti-population forces to put forward constructive proposals in this direction. Sadly, however, - and this is evidenced by this question - you prefer to engage in an irresponsible catastrophe that has nothing to do with reality. I would say that this attitude is reminiscent of a primitive defense mechanism known in psychology as a "project": I am projecting my properties to the present subject. So you put forward your bad texts to us, incapable of accepting that the people have judged and rejected these things. It should be clear, however you are trying to distort reality, no matter how much the mediator system of interlocutory assists this effort, that we are not all the same. What I just told you, in relation to investment, in relation to financing, in relation to the government's development initiatives, proves that we are doing things otherwise, that we are doing things differently, because we have different political priorities, different social targets. You will allow me, however, to tell you, on the occasion of the question you have tabled - and to close with this political point - that, in my opinion, things are simply, in relation to your attitude in the coming period. We are currently seeing parts of European social democracy in Europe finally entering a process of reflection on what has happened internationally over the last two decades. Unfortunately, the Greek version of European social democracy has not yet entered that logic. Either, then, you will continue to operate as an extreme centre, as a sad tail of a hard neoliberal right, or you will follow the practices of a significant part of your European partners. In any case, we will go beyond the effort to get the country out of the memorials and the committee, to rebuild the structures and functions of the social state which have been dismantled by the policies of the previous governments, to reform the public administration which has been treated for decades as a spoil and to bring the Greek economy on the path of fair, sustainable and sustainable development this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u114	Minister, you have two minutes for your tritology. You've spent all the time. The circle of parliamentary representatives is now beginning. The first is Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence. Mr. Loverdo, you have 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u115	Minister, from your political references I choose two to begin with my speech. The first relates to what you said about political and party events in the European Union, in Europe in general. I would tell you that for a citizen and a political preferable than you say for Europe, it is to appreciate as the most important one, which creates comparative and real references and facilitates understanding what is happening to us. I suggest that you accept as a more important issue the fact that the only country in which populism has won is Greece, namely you and Mr Kammenos, whose only country you are now alike. In France, he's lost. The far right ones lost. In the Netherlands, too, the far right were lost. Austria, too. In England they won the Brexit, but at political level they have been devastated in the parliamentary elections. In Portugal, likewise. In Spain, too. The only case that populism won is Greece with you, who said everything you had said in the election, and that today only anyone who listened to you and tried to compare you with the past will understand: What is the norm? The current specific minister or the "I Do Not Pay"? Your second political report I choose to comment on is that you said that the text of the question and the speakers also spoke badly about you. I did not see that in the text. I have seen a very well-founded topical question standing in political matters. Here if I heard something, it is what is mentioned in 'I don't pay', which you were in charge of, and you made a reference to road projects. That is why you said 'I don't pay' and I don't know if you said any more. A politician, however, must aim at bringing life to the ability of what he said or did, to be proud. That's good. It's the best for a politician. It's not always happening. We are making mistakes, saying things that we consider to be too much. But from 'I don't pay, I don't pay', tell us how growth is going on, it's a matter. And I'd like to know: Why are you proud? About what you're talking about now or about what you were talking about at the time? It is a good thing that we are criticising you and not as you have presented it, and I am surprised to see that it is not documented by the Step of the House today by my colleagues in the Democratic Incorporation and by the text we have tabled. Mr Arvanitides, presenting our positions - I consider it very serious and very important - said the obvious - that in order for growth to function properly a economy, three conditions are essential: the investment environment should be appropriate. The climate in the economy must be positive, that is to say, trust. And trust in other matters also gets a specific one. It could be said that the general environment, when it comes to trust, is a third factor that is absolutely decisive. You, even now that we are talking about, that the country is on a path leading to your political end, we have day after day intervention by your economists. And I'm referring to Kim's case, if that's his last name. He was a well-paid advisor to Mr Varoufakis, but remains an advisor to Mr. Tsakalotou's Greek government today. And listen to colleagues, something which is also impressive: he went to a Bepe Grillo event! So you know what your reference is, which you will also teach us social democracy lessons! Beppe Grillo! And because we say 'the party, the left, the Maduro, the SYRIZA' and the 'Bepe Grilo' from the day before yesterday! These are your reports, Farage, Beppe Grillo. That's who you are! You've been teaching us lessons! So there he said that Plan B was in progress. It was designed in detail. Mr Varoufakis of course took the opportunity to say - you who are now talking about an investment climate - that 'yes, the government knew'. He had put it - he says - and at a meeting of the Ministerial Council. He'll be a very good witness, Mr. Varoufakis. Mr. Maniotis, you quite rightly said that he would be a trustworthy witness, because he was there and was not elsewhere. For all this - the President is well aware of this from her legal knowledge - there is an unused article in the Criminal Code, 151 for the violation of proficiency which is a felony. It is precisely the case of the government in that six-month period that cost the Greek people 100 billion euros, as Mr Regling said, and not us here. Because that, with the same number exactly, I have said it here, but I am a Member of the Opposition, and in any case the government can say what it wants to say about me. So we have a case where the Greek people were fooled, you fooled him and you did other things without saying it. Now the ministers and the officials of that day and of the present day admit it. And take note, because some of you stand in the comfort that all of this was the first SYRIZA period, which is politically interesting as you say - another January 2015 and another in September 2015 - but as far as the criminals are concerned, all come and end up in the second recapitalisation of banks. Everything comes up and ends up in the second recapitalisation of the banks that the cosmopolitan lost his money. The banks became much weaker. And it wasn't in this situation, as the political supervisors of your bank were saying when you won the election. So that is what you mentioned for too long in the speech. Mr. Arvanitidis made three conditions. To live, it has become clear now that growth is essential, a concept of misunderstood by the times of bliss. You were talking about growth and everyone thought it was self-evident. Were you talking about competitiveness? If you were a centre-left, like us, you were told, "What are you talking about? It is a suspicious concept of competitiveness.' Were you talking about education and the need to connect to production? We're not talking about education that has another dimension. We were talking about training that had to be linked to production. You told us we were right. We were talking about things, but the current political reason was downgrading or considering them guilty. I said about the concept of competitiveness. Now we realised that to eat bread, there must be growth. They've all understood it now thankfully. And in Parliament there are few left out of this understanding. Redistribution and solidarity are the signal of our own party. We have established the ESS. You abolished it. Government Simitis has enshrined the CSCE. You abolished it. Now to make redistribution and solidarity, solidarity policies, we must have growth. And we should not go into the logic that your ministers in the field of welfare are constantly saying that they are making policies. I'll tear your house down, give you a tent to live. And that is your policy with a very simple example. Let's go see what's got to be done about development. You made a speech for over half an hour. What did you say? You've made reports. We don't agree. We have contrary information and a view that specialises our information and turns it into political arguments. We've submitted these to you. A year ago, the Minister was Mr. Stathakis. Because then he was a minister. Now, Mr Papadimitriou, let me tell you, without making the position difficult for you, he is an unprecedented man, he is not a Minister for Development. Man has nothing to do with the Greek economy and its needs. All things are back. I was listening this morning to what he's done for Sunday work and the stores. Even the relevant Ministerial Decisions have not been adopted. He's confused all the space. The man doesn't do this job. It's not just that it's politically wrong. It doesn't work for this job, either. But anyway. Four were the axes last year on Statatia. I don't want to repeat it. Four axes, four assumptions. I had them developed here. The development laws and all the things you mentioned are minors. Furthermore, Minister - second assumption - I believe that capital transfers are also a secondary issue. You told us it rains millions of yunker plan. You have not taken - not you, not you, the whole majority - not a single euro. Not even a single euro has fallen on the Greek market. Third admission. The economy must be freed from the state. Fourth admission. If you don't do for the economy and growth what you have to do in the first six months when you're government then the weather is gone. If you're ready to prove it for the first few months of your administration. Then the opportunity is gone. These four assumptions I don't have time to develop them again, but they're in the Minutes of the House on May 5, 2016. I would like to give you two dimensions of development that you have not even dealt with as a government and an example that specialises them. The state must move away from the economy. Stop strangling her. You brought a law. The law on the abolition of authorisations. Not applicable. And from my legal experience today, I have an example. You voted for him last year and you celebrated. Not applicable. But it's a policy measure. A policy measure that would have allowed the economy to be freed from the state if the policy had developed. Secondly, justice. I don't want an investment? Am I a competitor? An application for annulment in the Council of State or a general action and my competitor's investment can go three and four and five years back. And here there is a need for intervention in justice. Are these interventions in justice impossible? Let me remind you of something - I do not think you were then a Member or a State Secretary, but I may be wrong. As soon as you signed the memorandum, in the summer of 2015 or just before that, you brought to the House and passed it, it was a prerequisite for your next, the change of the Code of Civil Procedure, which Mr. Tsipras himself denounced in his own visits to the courts. You voted for her here. You were sliding. We told you. It was a draft law drawn up by the Government of Samara - Venizelos and had a primary role in it at the time, the Secretary General of the Ministry, Mr Nikolaos Canelopoulos. You voted for it. As a lawyer, I have had my new Code of Civil Procedure applied twice in a client's case and my cases ended in three and four months. This is progress. I'm not saying he has no disadvantages. It is, however, about the slowness in the administration of justice in one area, it has been proved, with the legislation that you have brought it in and voted on, that changes can be made. You owe the relevant law to the Administrative Court - I repeat, the right to do so too. If you had this cruising policy and had manifested it from the outset - which you hadn't had, because you are detainees of the worst kind - we would have taken steps. We, as Mr Gregorakos said, support these when you do. But you don't. I will set an example - and with this I will close - how can, if these changes had taken place, with an example of economic operation to understand exactly what we want to say. About garbage: We lived a terrible version of this a few weeks ago - don't forget - on your own responsibility. But, as I said one day in a public dialogue with your current Member, Mr Dimitris Sevastakis, who agreed, the issue of waste management is a source of growth and real wealth, but, with the situation in the area of justice, in the areas that I have said, but also in the state - listen to us, colleagues - that sector will not give us, it will be too late to give us. Until a municipality or region ends up making use of some useful form of waste, it is overdue. The technology has produced dozens of new ones. At the moment, regions and municipalities are struggling to finish competitive procedures concerning forms of treatment or management of waste belonging to two decades ago. They belong in two decades ago! If you understood it as a topic and cared for the economy and growth, you should have intervened there to enable local authorities to change the commodity they want to buy, the product they want to buy. You're elsewhere late, you don't understand that. You, who are the heads of a sector that is supposed to be a combination of the action of the entire administration with the top of development, should have put it down. We are burning, burning, talking about the people. These should have been seen as the top priority. It's not even your last one. We hear you talking in shapes, 'neoliberalism','socialism', to fortify behind the second one, which you do not even express. I hear many times ministers speaking, partly of you today, and I say that they are in New Democracy. So, you hear him and you say, is he a SYRIZA or is he a classic right? Not to say New Democracy, is it a comfortable Minister of Ms. May's in the United Kingdom? Well, the distinct roles...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u116	Why is it wrong to be near New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u117	No, no. I made it right. But you belong in the field of maintenance policy. You must accept that. But the adversaries of this policy are not the words, when one governs, they are your works and works on the one hand they are incomplete and, on the other hand, they have nothing to do with what the Greek people need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u118	I'm going to skip the show because my colleague, Mr. Arvanitides, has an urgent reason to leave. They're entitled five minutes for his denology. Here, Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor, with everyone's permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u119	Minister, in your place you indicted me for an inaccurate number. If you'd noticed, I know it's 6,75 the Public Investment Program. What I said is that the loss from the shipping currency, which has been announced is 5.32 due to capital controls, is almost the development programme. That is what I said in my position, to be precise, because I am one of those who at least as far as the accuracy is concerned I have no gaps. I also have to say, because I owe it, that I appreciate your efforts. You are one of the people who are trying, working and perhaps even in the style of your position was this bitterness from this effort, because they do not achieve the results. Of course, in my first speech, I talked about an investment environment, about economic climate and confidence. This doesn't build your own effort, it's a total result and that's something that's wrong with the chain rings. I would like to raise a few issues that I did not have time for in my prototype. I am going to talk about red business loans and their regulation, which you have mentioned in your prototype, about shipping, for which I am responsible on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Independence Parliament, and unfortunately there is no representative from this sector today and for the programme of privatisation of the WTO. When we discussed the bill, Minister, on the extrajudicial compromise, I told you that we had the possibility - and it was a big bet - to relive seven out of ten companies with red business loans. I also told you that we in the Democratic Partnership want the extrajudicial compromise to be achieved, we want the companies to resurrect, we want the economy to go ahead, so we have entered the debate with positive attitudes and proposals, so as to improve the bill as much as possible. We have tabled ten specific proposals to the debate, which we believe would solve major problems in the draft law, mainly concerning the position of the borrower and the delays in bureaucracy. Unfortunately, with the exception of a proposal which you have partially accepted, all the other proposals have been vacant. You did not accept the irresponsible business account, which we will always discuss, because we consider it particularly crucial for business to function. You have not accepted the relaxation of the conditions for the integration of businesses into the extrajudicial mechanism. You did not accept the inclusion of the free professionals and farmers in order to be able to regulate their debts definitively. You did not agree to open the Coordinator's registry. You did not agree to go into a substantial mediation process. You did not accept to avoid delays in the polyp courtroom. You have not accepted the possibility of making use of the new institutional framework consistently. Why? Because you always possess infallible, because you always know better. That's how you knew better about contractors in the municipalities and we saw the results. As you know, you better negotiate and you have brought the most burdensome and unnecessarily unnecessarily memorable memorial to the Greek people. So you, you better know, have created a law that will work for a few, will only work for large businesses with large debts and many creditors, the Marinopoulos issue, that is. For all others, God has. For the small and medium-sized enterprise, which is going to negotiate with the nipple in the neck, God has. For the store that's going to take a set in which it can't handle it, it's God. For the free trader, who can't set up loans to banks, God has. Unfortunately, Minister, and I really hope that life will disprove me, you have created a law that will not work, a law that will fail. I'm coming to shipping. I address you, Minister, because the Minister responsible is not in the Chamber. It is impressive that you are two, two and a half years in the government and you have done absolutely nothing. For almost two years we had Mr. Dritsa's steering wheel, who only dealt with the sale of the OLF and managed to fail on the only topic he dealt with. Today we have the Minister, Mr Kurubli, whom I hear every two and three, saying that he has a plan for shipping, I hear him say that he will solve the problem of the sector with a bill - a broom, to come to Parliament, I hear him talking about projects which the Government is working on in the shipyards, I hear him talking about water, I hear him talking about upgrading maritime education. Nice words, as always, zero result. But I would also like to focus on something that does not matter not to go through the changeovers. I read today in the newspaper 'MAKEDONIA' that privatisation studies will be carried out for ten regional ports in the country, which are anonymous companies. I also read that by the second quarter of 2017 the competitions for selling or renting the ports will be ready. I want to be perfectly clear, because this is a serious matter. Do you intend to go back to privatisation, PPA and PAH models? Did you take the fort and sell, like, all the infrastructure in the country? I call on the Minister for Maritime Affairs to come to Parliament and take a position, to tell us if he has a plan for the port infrastructure in the country. I'm closing up with the big investments we need. Do we need seventy-five thousand new jobs? Do we need the 8.2 billion investment? Do we need annual GDP growth by 2%? Do we need a million extra visitors, 300 million of the investor's advance, 2 billion public annual revenue, the income for the insurance funds from contributions? Do we need to upgrade the capital's tourist product, at a time when revenue from tourism each year decreases? Do we need the waterways, which have become Arta's york? Do we need the marinas, which are untapped all over the country? The answer, Minister, to all of this is obvious to everyone except the ministers of your government. So if you want, Minister, to come this much-needed development, if you want not to load more burdens on the Greek family, if you want the young children to stay and return to the country, leave the big words, put the cubit where you reach it, raise the sleeves, bring it a result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u120	Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA, MEP Kozanis, Dimitrios Dimitriadis, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing but to say about an element in the speech made by the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance on the political issue, because Mr Loverdos, honestly, has given me a very big impression and I have not understood the connection. You said that populism in Europe was defeated, saying that "Lepen was defeated in France, May in England, the far right-wing in the Netherlands, Austria and only SYRIZA rules in Greece as a populist party". So, we're family? So, to overcome your strategic deadlock in the country, will you rank us on the far right? I close this parenthesis, saying that Mr Yangland, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, explicitly stated that SYRIZA had nothing to do with populism. The question, therefore, of the Members of the Democratic Reconciliation, raises what they would not have had to deal with, but, more so, puts questions that she thinks she has responded to and historically indeed. The title 'fraud' shows, first of all, that it considers its solvency given to it. It considers that its own governance has always been within objectives, transparent and in favour of development. It puts out a lot of talk about what we did not do or what we are not going to do about the economic development of the country. It does not, however, use any of its own examples, such as its restrictive policy of submission since 2010, the restrictive mixture it has implemented in previous years and has led the country to a downward cycle of reduced domestic demand, increasing unemployment and reduced available income. Looks like it's none of their business. They do not concern, in other words, the loss of GDP, the loss of 65.5% of the volume of investment between 2008 and 2014, the average annual decline in Greek domestic demand by 6.2%, the decrease in household gross nominal disposable income by 7.3%, the huge unemployment rate reached in 2013, according to ELSTAT figures, at 27.5%, while at the same time the average wage was reduced by 17%. It's not their own outcome, but someone else, just because they want it and because they think it. They finally think that, when you abdicate others, you've already been transformed. The group that accepted surpluses that were never able to achieve only a signature for the evaluation, the fact that it never met the agreed growth rates, which the next day challenged the basic terms of an agreement, while it had just signed them, was always in the trap it set up. But that was all about the country! We managed to contain the economic sizes from a catastrophic catastrophe, the previous one I mentioned to you. We have achieved - and this is a first answer - surpluses, just recently, greedy for the previous ones, 4.2%. We have closed the second assessment in a satisfactory and balanced way, without new measures. This is a next answer to the question of colleagues. We are completing the medium-term debt arrangement by staying firm, because our lenders have accepted our pursuits, which is a clause for growth and sustainability. That's a third answer. You will allow me to clarify here. The surplus we have achieved, however great it may be, is reinvested within the economy and is not being reduced, as has been the case in your years, by the budget for debt service. This will happen both in 2017 and in 2018, capitalising the growth of the economy for the benefit of growth and exit from the vicious cycle of austerity. In short, the road is open to us and we just have to read it. In view of the budgetary adjustment, therefore, as was actually reflected in the Financial Facility Convention with institutions, stability, credibility and the positive sign, our firm and lasting objectives for our development policy are. Our strategy for exiting the crisis is served by four main objectives: fiscal stability, stable financial system, structural changes and social policy. The most important figures for 2017 are very positive and persuad precisely this perspective: growth of the Greek economy, positive growth, growth of the economy by 12.5%, growth of exports by far more than 10%, surplus close to 3%, reduction of unemployment - a recent figure - in April to 21.7%. Revenues, therefore, and GDP, ultimately increase significantly, contrary to previous years of downwardism. At the same time, however, in order to achieve the objective of growth in the economy, we are using all those development tools available to us and we have organised them. The development tools that we have developed are not only the Public Investment Programme and the Development Law, but also additional ones, which aim to make public and private funds more leveraged to boost investment. With regard to the ESRB, the previous period was completed by 100%, and - I must remind you - you had committed around 6 billion additional funds available, blocking in practice the development and the fiscal position of the country. Under the Juncker package, agreements amounting to EUR 650 million had been signed. We fought close to 1.4 billion from private resources in the real economy and we continue. Through the direct lending of the European Investment Bank, we have signed contracts of EUR 2.4 billion, of which 1.4 have already gone to the real economy. Our objective remains the implementation of projects of high added value, which will contribute to the further productive transformation of the country in areas that the Greek economy has a comparative advantage, based on the capacity of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and high-trained human resources. In the next few months, the NRP will provide calls for the implementation of a series of programmes of a total budget of EUR 100 million for strengthening the environmental industry, further extroversion of small and medium-sized enterprises and the development of locally-sized enterprises. In the short term, within three, four months, programmes will be launched for the second cycle of self-employment support for higher education graduates, creative reuse of municipal property, for the second cycle of aid of existing small and medium-sized enterprises, upgrading of theatres and cinematographic institutions, strengthening the establishment of new tourist units or extending the existing ones. In development law, we have given and continued - and here I am closing down this part, because my time is over - healthy, dynamic small and medium-sized entrepreneurship with strong innovative, extroversion elements, aiming mainly at agri-food, processing and peak technologies. Priority is given to decentralising production activity by strengthening investment projects in the region. The figures for the first four months refer exclusively to this. In the tools we have created and continue, it is the Entrepreneurship II Fund, which finances the guarantees of small and medium-sized enterprises, the Investment Participation Fund, which will mainly benefit small and medium-sized enterprises from the early stage of their creation to the stage of their development, the Infrastructure Fund, which will finance important infrastructures in the energy upgrading of public buildings, urban development and tourism. We have also created - and this is new - the West Macedonia Development Fund, which is a new example of regional entrepreneurship support. So we're still a step closer to getting out of the memorials and surveillance. We're holding the key in our hands to get out of the crisis. We aim at reliability to restore investor confidence in 2017. It is indeed a year of turning the economy. We'll get out of the crisis with society standing up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u122	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Athanasios Bouras, Member of the Attica, has the floor for six minutes. All of you make an effort to keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u123	With your kindness, and I'll do my best. Minister, I really heard a lecture today. You're used to it. I've been listening to you days ago at the Parliament's channel. You have said a few things, but it is good to justify them. Of course, you have not talked at all about strategic investments and while you have committed yourself to changing or amending the relevant law, you have done nothing. All you do - and in strategic investment - two and a half years now is to delay very important tools, such as the airport of Greece, such as the regional airports, such as the ports, which would give important jobs and growth to the economy. Of course, Minister, you have said a lot in your lecture. You also spoke about the evaluation. And you're proud. What assessment? For the one who brought another 4.9 billion meters to the Greek citizen, in addition to about 15 billion, with the fourth memorandum? Approximately five billion! Are you proud of what I've done? If she were to close on time, there wouldn't be a lot of unbearable measures for the Greek citizen. Of course, what can I say when the Prime Minister of Genoa assured that there will be no more EUR 1 measures? And finally the new measures are 4,9 billion! Minister, I really want to make a statement, because it's a very big question. My colleagues from the Democratic Reconciliation have raised a great deal of issues. Indeed, Mr Loverdos, it would be very positive to approach the principles and values and policy of the New Democracy, which at the moment the great majority of the Greek people - at least in the polls - also embraces and has hope in this. I would therefore like to table a few tables, which my colleagues should also like to see. It's completely latest data from the Integrated Information System. I'll explain the course as long as I have. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the minutes the tables mentioned above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I sincerely want to tell you, Minister, this: you have thrown us two documents with some old dates. When, anyway, will you specialize in the answers? When are you going to tell us specifically what the remaining costs of projects that were included up to 31-12-2014 are? What is the budget for the new projects, which have been published since 2015? Tell us about the remaining costs and how they will contribute to n+3 in 2018, which is now no longer financed by the United Kingdom. We risk - if I may, I will analyse it below - that in 2018 we have losses for the country of considerable sums of money. Minister, you failed the ESDP, which has a zero contribution to development. I'll explain to you why I see that your partners are looking at me. The Ministry of Economy and Development - and I do not mean you on a personal level, I have told you on another occasion - is a coordinating ministry and has - except for what it itself manages - a great responsibility to control and cooperate with the other ministries. They were told by colleagues of the Democratic Association in detail. You'll see the painting I deposited. In fisheries, the absorption is zero. The Rural Development Programme is not being exploited, so that farmers lose significant sums. The new "EXECONOMY" is now in the freezer for two years. You have also stated on several occasions, but also in a recent statement by the Prime Minister - if I am not now deceived in an interview in May - that it will be proclaimed. Do you know how much damage you do to the economy by not exploiting these resources, not only as a size of economics, but also as a size essential? Because "EXOCOCOMOVOS" would give work to the building, give thousands of our fellow citizens a job and freed, with the completion of it forty, thousands of our fellow citizens from burdens with the lack of insulation, etc. of the buildings. Minister, I sincerely want to tell you the following: you have said some things. Okay, now you've been running for two and a half years. You have the right to condemn previous governments, but now you have to apologize. Looks like you don't have the power. Perhaps the Minister has it - and I know it - on many issues. But honestly, have you defended the development issue? According to the IMD, the International Development Institute, we are in the run-up to global competitiveness. Greece, in other words, because you said something about it, is on the fifty-seventh of the sixty-three countries involved in this process. I do not have time to mention to you the other positions on the domestic economy - sixty-four years ago - for international trade, for tax policy and for many other things. Spring forecasts for development are very sloppy of all the relevant international organisations. Absence of a national development strategy. What do you think, like, a year or so? What development law are you talking about, Minister? For the one who hasn't got an investment yet? You said a number. I'll tell you the exact numbers, because you know I'm watching your Ministry as Deputy Department of Economy and Development and with my experience in the past as a State Secretary. I must tell you that you should not be able to take it if there are eight hundred applications and projects submitted. It's not that much. Let's not look into it right now. But I'll find it. I'll tell you that the four special regimes have been activated from eight. The first two do not have economics, but have - not to explain them - tax exemptions and so on. As regards the third, namely general entrepreneurship, there were four hundred and twenty-seven applications, and as regards the fourth, namely the new independent small and medium-sized enterprises, two hundred and ten. Where are all this? Nowhere. The files haven't even been evaluated. Do you know why? Because there is no complete plan, so that it can be checked, and you have assigned it to the SGP, a service that you control. I suspect why he's stalling. Because there are other problems. As far as the ESDP is concerned, of the twenty-three actions you have announced - not to say them, seventeen to March, etc. - only two have been activated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I must tell you, Minister, because you said a few things - and I sincerely thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance - that this is a very big issue and we have to say some things and it is good for the country as well, because we are not making a sterile opposition, we have proved it to you. If you read the questions we ask you, they are in the direction of finding solutions. Minister, in 2015 European lenders agreed to give Greece EUR 1 billion in advance for the new ESRB to finance the new funds and entrepreneurship support actions. National participation has been zeroed, we know that. The solution you gave with the well-known curiosity was the transfer of programs from the old-bridges to the new NRP, with the phasing process. And, of course, the continuation was to break the works into smaller works. It is well known that colleagues have said so from the Democratic Independence. New projects, new proposals, new projects that meet the current needs of the economy do not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Bourra, you can't go any further. You've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u125	I shall conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u126	Your colleagues will protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u127	Even today they are evaluated and stay in drawers. I conclude by saying that, as far as the financial instruments are concerned, Mr Minister, you should not be involved. Nothing. Zero. 'JEREMIE', 'JESSICA', 'PPP', you are simply cutting off any ribbons and you have not gone any further than you have always been against. Just cut ribbons and celebrate. That's your policy. Try to fix it for the good of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Before I begin, I would like to make a very quick comment on the shipwreck of the Cyprus talks. Fortunately, Turkey's intransigence saved Cypriot Hellenism from a new tragedy. Also, welcome your new transfer, Mr. Chohatzopoulos, to SYRIZA, who said he supports SYRIZA, after his executives, his advisers. After a lot of people who left PASOK and went to SYRIZA, now you have Mr. Tsohatzopoulos as well. We agree with the PASOK on the timely question it has tabled, on the illusion of the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA in terms of development, which does not come here at all. Of course, we should remind the PASOK gentlemen that the total destruction of the industrial infrastructure of the country is the result of the 'democracy' which began in 1974 and peaked from 1981 onwards. We can talk a lot of time about this issue and look at examples of colossal companies, Greek industries, which have been literally destroyed. We will start first from a bank, ETVA, if you remember it, where the monstrous scandals of the PASOK governments have literally blown it into the air and from a bank, which, as he said, could be a pioneer in industrial development, was ultimately the lever for various scams of what they were running at that time. Remember companies like "MALKOUTS", the company that built tractors, machinery, engines and that an agreement with the Greek State, with ELVO, literally destroyed it. Remember the "PIRELLI", which had a factory here, but with the incredible strikes of the various workers of that time, they were forced to shut it down and take it to Turkey. The same was done with "GOODYEAR", the same was done with a very big company, "BIAMAX", which was one of the best trains in Europe, where vehicles of all kinds and types were fitted, and now you see that actually this activity has moved to Turkey. Let us remember the factory of 'NISSAN', 'KERANIS', the shipyards that made them a paper war and instead of building hundreds of ships in the shipyards of Greece, are shipped across the globe other than Greece and not just in countries with much lower cuts. They are also shipped to Japan, where the share of seamen is five and six times greater. You see, then, the state along with professional workers, who only wanted to have a hostage clientele, literally dismantled the infrastructure of this country. We are talking about a timeless incapacity and the governments of the New Democracy, with a peak, as we talk about growth, and we see the results, when the New Democracy took the lead in entering the European Union countries such as Bulgaria and Romania, with all the result that this has on businesses and facilitating fleeing there because of the European Union. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, we cannot say that you are key to everything that is going on in our country, because you are only running for two and a half years, except for your members, who were most members of either the PASOK or the New Democracy and who had also put their port in the destruction of this place. Seven years, Minister, with unemployment being the first in the European Union, but also throughout Europe, regardless of whether, as you are advertising, you put it at 21.6%, if I am not mistaken, but you know very well the hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who are not considered unemployed, because very simply work an hour or an hour a week and cannot be calculated. Official unemployment or rather unofficial unemployment in our country - silent unemployment - exceeds 30%. Debt from 321 billion in the first Memorandum, after all these measures that you have voted for and the memoranda that you have voted for, has exceeded EUR 326 billion. It is more than 200% of GDP or tends to become more direct. It is neither sustainable nor manageable, so no country can move forward and cannot have any kind of development with such unthinkable figures. And if we add the debts of the banks, the insurance funds and the private individuals, who touch 100 billion euros, you understand that the situation is tragic. You are giving up - so you say - the silver of the patronage against a lentil plate, and that is what you consider growth, with a VAT which is extremely uncompetitive in relation to any other country in Europe. And here we could talk for now about this VAT. The low VAT rate in our country, which is 13% for all the products and services left, is the standard, the official VAT for other countries. Taxes together with contributions exceed 82% of private income, when agricultural and industrial oil has the same price as oil as a owner of a Porsche Cayenne, when since 2012 the padlocks have been plus - but 60 thousand in total, when you are currently due to private individuals EUR 5 billion and these 5 billion are strangled and these 5 billion do not make any setback. You may be owed as public to a private person EUR 1 million, to owe the private person EUR 100,000 to the public and, in any case, to destroy him and not make a setback. Two hundred and three days a year, someone works to pay off the government's money. You've got a paperwork that doesn't exist anywhere. You do not make debt write-offs or rather make selective debt write-offs. You deleted with a circular of 4.3m euro debts of "MARINOPOULOS" and other companies that broke cannons, voluntarily or inadvertently, and at the same time you're chasing microprocessors. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we will give an example of a country, Croatia, which is deleting the debts of small and medium-sized enterprises and the poor of all kinds. This is a country which is also in the European Union and which has a much more attractive investment programme and is advertising it. What can we advertise in the 'ECONOMIST' or 'TIME' or in other magazines, that at the moment whoever comes here in our home country pays everything in the Greek state and goes out in debt? Who's investing in our country? The crows, the spokesmen, those who take silver against a lentil plate with guaranteed agreements, such as the investment of the Greek, whatever the company that took the Greek, loses - wins, will pay nothing, because within the terms it is that the Greek state will also pay the possible failure of this government. What investments do we want in this country? It's something you're talking about, but basically nothing. If we do not control this huge debt that our country has, if we do not claim the EUR hundreds of billion, we have something in our hands, so that we can move, nothing is done. If you do not support the small and medium-sized ones, you see them as the greatest enemies of this country, which the small and medium-sized ones are the real pillars - we say it, we say it and we will call it - every healthy economy, nothing happens. If there is no protectionism for Greek products and for Greek workers, for imported products and imported products - within or outside import - nothing happens. How can a company that makes a product competes when the corresponding product from China is twenty-fold cheaper, because - quite simply - in China the worker works for about twenty hours a day? They work five, six, seven, eight years old and are nourished with a cup of rice and no insurance contributions of course. If you don't generally support primary production, nothing happens. And because a lot of talk is about the ESDP, at last let the ESDP programmes go to primary production and not go somewhere where they are actually money-cut, nor to rebuild squares, streets or some other things, which at the end of the day have nothing to bring us at all. If you wanted growth in this country, you should have the products in the contracts, whether or not they are all "made in Greece" or "made in China" or "made in China" and not say that in the context of globalisation of the economy, the Greek army can now receive clothing "made in Pakistan" or "made in China" or at the same time close Greek craft industries. We have a Greek banking system, which literally collapsed with the various crooks who ran it and you reward them too. You cheated on them once and now you're working with them. We need a national monetary policy. That's another conversation. It can't be done now, because we just don't have our own currency. In order to do all this and much more, which takes a great deal of time, however, there should be governments and people who make up the governments of patriots, not men of massons, not slaves of bankers and foreign interests. And you, like the previous ones, have nothing to do with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u130	Now there is the floor for the spokesman of the JRC, Achaias MEP, Karathasopoulos, and I ask that the time be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Madam President. We have heard a lot of numbers, programmes, tools for development and finance, but we have not really discussed what growth means. Let us see practically the issue, without resorting to financial instruments and ESDP programmes and everything else. For example, is tourism an economic activity which breaks one record after another development? It is. What is, in fact, the results of this development in the tourism sector? The concentration is the first result. The tourist activity concentrates on less and less hands. In the big chains of hotels, the tour operators, while on the contrary the rest of the self-employed and professionals in the industry see their turnover falling day after day. Secondly, does this miracle in tourism and its parallel records result in increased work? Here there are workers who are unpaid in the hotel sector. Contracts are implemented that escape imagination: day-to-day contracts, time-consuming contracts, there is age-to-age racism. Are these results of this fantastic tourist development experienced daily by hotel staff? Sure. And third element: This tourist activity is a luxury for the vast majority of the people's family. That's right. They can't take one day's vacation, go to rest. This practically shows what growth means to you and to the other parties, which you are defending precisely this capitalist character of development. It is, therefore, a growth that accumulates wealth in less and less hands. And if you say me too much, look at the publications I've made and recently how many hands the wealth gathers worldwide. 1% of the world's richest has over 50% of global wealth. So there is a accumulation of wealth in less and less hands, of a multiplier riches. Secondly, there is an increase in social inequalities. Increasingly, we see them living well below the level of needs, the level of development of labour productivity and the level of utilization of productive forces. That's all you're not talking about. Nor did you say either PASOK and the Democratic Reconciliation, but also the other parties. Or when you say a word, you simply make findings that have absolutely no effect. You are fighting about who will be the best manager for implementing, meeting the needs of monopolistic groups. So it is not really a question of growth, but who wins from this development and who loses. The issue is development for whom. Will we have a growth that at its heart will satisfy the people's needs or the capitalist profit? Let us now ask a few very specific questions. Of course, they will not, we know, because we have already set them up several times. Are there or are there wealthy sources in Greece? Of course, there are wealthy sources. Why are they destroyed or not exploited? Who's to blame? And we say not only the period of crisis, but also the period of growth. A number of sectors of the economy were destroyed in the period of fat cows in the 1990s, the 2000s. Is it the capitalists, who just do not want to invest in these industries, why do they not have a guaranteed profit or can they find a higher profit rate elsewhere, in other sectors, in other sectors, or are they transferring productive activities abroad, as was done, to the Balkan countries, Turkey and elsewhere? Anarchy of production is called this. Is there an experienced employee or not? Why is it not exploited? Why, on the basis of the data from the European Central Bank yesterday, are 31.7% unemployed on the substance? And the size is larger, but let us take what the European Central Bank says and not 21%. Why are the achievements of research, science and technology, when exploited, exploited at the expense of workers? While they increase labour productivity, they throw workers away as useless. Instead of reducing working time, increasing their earnings because they become more productive, i.e. working less and being paid much better, once they become more productive, that is not the case, but the opposite. They're throwing them out of the production process. And at the same time, the results of this research and technology are greedy, expensive for the popular layers. And let's just take the drug issue. Many achievements in research and technology are not exploited because it does not suit capitalists. These are the factors. So what they do not want to use the wealthy sources, the workforce, or on their behalf the results of research and technology are the interests of the capitalists, that is, the need for capitalist gain. And with that, Minister, we have to get this over with. It cannot be the motive, the lever of the economy. It's a parasitic motive. That is why it destroys the labour force, which is why it destroys productive potential. That's why he's fighting for his salvation the capitalist profit. This capitalist gain and its defence lie behind the memorials, behind the anti-grass policy implemented by you and the previous governments. Who want cheap workers without rights? The industrialists, the shipowners, the bankers, the big dealers. They also told you and the previous governments through the troika to abolish with the memorials everything that the working class had, to reduce wages and pensions. Who want motives and privileges, with development laws, tax exemptions, taxation? They're the ones. Who's paying for this? Workers, by increasing their taxation, with the huge state debt created to satisfy the self-evident interests of the people. Today, the people are being called upon to pay a state debt for which they are not responsible and from which they have not benefited at all. Who are calling for the liberalisation of markets, the opening-up of so-called 'closer professions', privatizations? These, so that their over-accumulated funds are invested in other sectors, to trade in other areas of social needs. So these industrialists, capitalists, shipowners, bankers must point to the people and, of course, the governments that serve these interests. It can, in fact, be exploited to the full extent of productive potential, to exploit this huge increase in labour productivity to the benefit of the people only through the socialisation of the means of production, the central scientific design and labour control. On the basis of these three axes, the economy and production can be organized for the benefit of the people and their needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u132	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u133	I shall conclude, Madam President. This can only be done through our release from the imperialist organisations, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and NATO, with unilateral debt remission and with equal relations with other states. So what is needed is the overthrow of the correlations, to fly, that is, the working class from the neck of its exploiters, to take her into her own hands. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of ANEL Mr Lazaridis, MP for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Madam President. With this question, even reading only the title, PASOK shows that it does not forget its "good" self. PASOK knows it's synonymous with interlocutory, lies, etc. We've heard a lot of things today. The party, which is primarily responsible for the country's destruction, accuses and criticises - and even irrational - this government, which is trying to correct and lift the country on its feet. I shall start with the comment of a good fishing colleague. He talked about absorption of 0% on fishing. I will reply to him by reminding him that their governments were then subsidising the catastrophes from fishermen. I don't know if you remember, Minister. I have heard a colleague from PASOK, who has likened - to see, ladies and gentlemen, what their economic policy was - the economy with the spring and bottom. That's how they ruled. They waited for the bottom economy. Then we heard - and here, from the Step forward in plenary, when they were speaking on television - saying 'we got bottom and now we're waiting for an economic rise'. But they were so incompetent that it turned out that from the bottom there was even lower and eventually reached us where they reached us. Two hundred and fifty-two thousand operations have been closed. The ultimate disaster. A colleague from PASOK also spoke about agriculture. Agriculture, you know, in 1981, when we entered the EEC, was 23% of GDP. In December 2014, when the two parties handed over the government, agriculture had fallen below 3%. If we look at it in absolute terms, in economic terms in 1981 it was at EUR 10.5 billion and in December 2014 they had dropped it to EUR 5.5 to EUR 5.7 billion, which is less than half. So, that was their ability? This government is still paying debts, as far as aid is concerned, and so on. to farmers, starting from 2008-2009. Do not forget recoverys from the various packages. We have been talking about recoverys since 2008-2009 and so on, which Europeans are asking for, and also of interest. Those were their abilities. Another PASOK spokesman for health revealed who was their target. It's something we were shouting about, but he revealed it here, talking about the private sector, about health, about the private nurses, etc., where he says that private nurses are wronged, etc. This is what they were trying to nullify public health and turn the whole world towards private health. This government is trying to put public health back on its feet. He's done it, and people feel safe. I would like to remind you here - the colleague made no mention of the government's obligations towards the public hospitals. On Thessaloniki - I say it for once - Papageorgiou had reached the limits of the closure. The debt has been 240 million since 2012. In 2012 this government ruled? Oh, no. About ten months ago this government gave more than 70-80 million to enable the hospital to stand. The hospital cannot blame it for mismanagement, because the hospital's debts to suppliers were 70 million. So the hospital had a positive effect of 170 million. They closed down the "Panagia" Hospital in Thessaloniki. I've noted something else here. A colleague made a reference to the ports, to their exploitation, etc. Well, wasn't it in PASOK that they chained to the bars and didn't let the Karamanlis government get on with using the ports? Now what does the PASOK mean? Renounce his responsibilities? Get him out and ask for an apology. Another colleague spoke of the reductions. Thirteen reductions were made by the PASOK and PASOK Government in five years. I now speak quickly, Madam President, and in telegraphs, because I see that my time is running out. In the case of television licences, they were shouting for an unlimited number. It came out and said then - a year ago - that the number is not unlimited and is now coming and being justified. Seven are the licenses. The Television Council took them out. Now they come again and they turn them and say 'no, we were not talking about an unlimited number'. In any case, thankfully there are the Minutes, which show who is telling the truth and who is lying. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. As to tourism, for God's sake! I'll give you two numbers. The global rate of development of tourism is 3% and in our country it is 7%. I mean, we're two and a half times over the global index. We must therefore congratulate the Ministry and this government on its performance in tourism and not say these things. As far as the para-state is concerned, it was the para-state who went and were hospitalized free of charge at Henry Dunan Hospital and charged it with more than 28 million. More than 28 million hospitals have to receive from people who were neither undignified nor have had a problem paying these costs. Also, sea-loving is known in the media, etc. and media support to their parties. Another colleague referred to the primary surpluses. This government, with its efforts, reduced the budgetary adjustment measures, for which they were committed, by 20 billion. In other words, our country pays 20 billion less, because they had agreed on absurd primary surpluses. I'm closing here with the report that a bank colleague made. Let us not forget that their own governments have closed down the banks, namely the Commercial, the Agricultural, the Post Bank. In fact, after closing down these banks, they also created the problem with their poor policy and the PSI even the banks that remained open. And I'll close here with the phrase...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Lazarides, you're always closing, but you're not closing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u137	Madam President, I violated for one minute a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u138	Two minutes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u139	You know, building is what we say: there are two major categories, demolitionists and builders. Democrats can't build. The builders are the ones who raise the building. These two parties, New Democracy and PASOK, have now been registered in the conscience of the Greek people as demolitioners. So they cannot ask people to trust them to rebuild the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u140	Now, there is the floor for the Parliamentary spokesman of the Association of Centres, Mr Saridis, MP for the Thessaloniki I. Mr. Saridis, I'll bet you six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you some truths. Mr. Samaras was tossing memorials in the election process. Mr. Tsipras did exactly the same. Mr. Samaras did it in a suit, Mr. Tsipras did it without a suit. Mr. Samaras did it in Zappeion, Mr. Tsipras on a tractor. Both governments have implemented a different policy than the one they promised. Both conflicts were promised and others did. All the Memorandum Governments, despite the burden of the responsibilities they had on them, lied and took the vote of the Greek people. The first government of George Papandreou, the second confrontation of Antonis Samaras, served for two and a half years - possibly the same government can withstand - and they fell on their own because they were not able to carry out the lies they had made. What is it that keeps governments? What's so important about these chairs holding the governments for two and a half and three years? Despite the burden on them, are these chairs worth more than the value of the country's future? The country has more challenges than prospects. The prospects are only in the government's mind. All the others in government live in our world. We have no unemployment, no employment, no tax, no wage reductions and no pensions, no growth, but we cannot see it coming and - most importantly - we can have primary surpluses of 2% for forty years, but we do not know it! The Ancient Greek Secretariat, ladies and gentlemen, seems to have its honour these days. In the White House, you know, they call university professors to explain what conclusions Thucydides had drawn during the Peloponnese War and how they could find application today. As I have heard recently, in the context of a special programme of psychological support and preparation for the US army and for the armed forces, the tragedy of Aianta and Philosophy has been regularly presented in theatre for decades. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] On the other hand, the journalistic references to ancient Greek tragedies aimed at restoring the real situation in which the political and economic situation of the country is found have not ceased for seven years to appear in the European news reports. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today's debate and the image presented by the Greek Parliament strengthen these good parallelisms. The most important element of the tragedy, you know, as far as I remember from my school years, has been the tragic irony. Tragic irony we have, when the project heroes ignore their fate, things that the viewers already know from underneath. This ignorance of the protagonists for things viewers know very well is that it ultimately gives the element of tragic irony. As other protagonists of ancient Greek tragedy, therefore, we are talking about development in this Chamber, Minister, in political terms, with party purposes, as if we were not aware, what all the other Greeks know. Neither the New Democracy-PASOK coexistence nor the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence were able to bring growth to their own. That is a fact that cannot be called into question. Nobody! But what we do not know, or what we politicians do not admit, is that we are politicians, because there are members of the government who say 'I am not a politician', and it makes us laugh at citizens' eyes, as they know well, is that no one can bring growth alone. No political party has the authority to do it, the power required. No political power enjoys the respect it needs to bring growth to that country. Only united will we be able to achieve this. Instead of doing what we should do, and the opposition and the government, we are now choosing anti-population to ask things that they know they do not have an answer, and the government is willing to give answers, which they know are worthless. I will close the position of the Central Association, making two remarks. We're talking about growth. When have we had real growth in this country for the last 40 years? When? When did we rely on work, our production as a state? When? When we got the Mediterranean Integrated Programs? When we got the first backup package, the second, the third? How did we create these growth rates that we were talking about? With our production, with our work? We never had one. And whenever we had or went to create some growth, you, Minister, were coming - not you personally - a small party then, and with appeals, with voices, all the designs of the governments concerned were dissolved. Finally, I would like to make a comment. Gentlemen of PASOK, you have really done a very serious job and you have presented a very serious question. On the first page, however, you chose to highlight in a bright black color, Bold, all the "will" of the SYRIZA Ministers. You have, in my view, added in this way another dimension of the tragic irony in today's debate. You of PASOK talk about 'will', isn't it ironic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr George Mavrotas, Member of the Parliamentary Representative from Potami, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. In six minutes I will just try to outline our perception of growth, that is to say, a little bit of the big picture. I won't go into details. There have also been numerous studies in recent years from MCKINSEY, IOBE, INTERNATIONAL, which have been talking about the comparative advantages of our country. We have also done similar events with the River. As in all things to improve something, you have to first measure it. In order to improve the level of development in a country, you must measure it. The most common indicator for a country's level of development is GDP. In the various indicators, either as a numerator, for example, GDP per capita, or as a denominator, for example the GDP debt. Speaking of which, I have mentioned the one-stop-stop-stage debt, I have to say this. We have always said that the debt problem we are discussing is not so much a numerical problem, that is, the debt level, as a denominator's problem, the level of GDP. When the government was blocking the negotiation, pronouncing the numerator in the major, it was losing the denominator. The 2.7% increase in GDP based on the budget adopted in November has become 1.5% loss, i.e. 2 billion national wealth. Sadly, the numbers are very witnessing and do not understand any of the communal terrain. GDP increases through four factors. Increase in consumption, creation of investments, public expenditure on the purchase of goods and services and exports. In order for growth to be healthy, it must be based, in particular, on investments and exports or on the substitution of imports. When it is based on consumption and public expenditure, it is short-term and mortal, as we have learned well from the years of the crisis. But what's sneezing us? The opinion survey carried out by the World Economic Forum showed that the main inhibitor for business in Greece is political instability and follow the high tax rates, tax legislation, bureaucracy, access to financing that is difficult and some figures in relation to business taxation, last World Bank report on business, the Doing business of 2017. According to this report, therefore, the taxes and insurance contributions that companies are required to pay are 50.7% on their profits, when the corresponding average in the OECD countries of high income is 40.9% and the high weight in Greece has gone to the middle class. But let's go to the kind of development we want. Greece, in the global division of labour and within the European Union, in order to have a future, can only develop a knowledge-intensive economy and the knowledge-intensive economy clearly has innovation. A common misunderstanding that is made, is that innovation is inextricably linked to technology. But innovation can also be developed in low technology sectors in processes or in organisational structures. The knowledge-intensive economy is therefore based on good education. Good education - to confine myself to higher education - needs the appropriate institutional framework, which has certain characteristics. As indeed self-sufficient institutions, self-sufficient institutions, with control and accountability - that actually means autonomy - in terms of the content of studies and not just of papers, not just of titles, international competitiveness and extroversion. Of course, the main thing is the connection to production. Especially with the Greek business model based on small and medium-sized enterprises, their interconnection with universities, TEIs and research centres is a one-way road. But that is why we will say more in the bill that will probably come next week on higher education, which let me say that it is going right in the opposite direction. Universities introverting the least common denominator. A knowledge-intensive economy, therefore, but within the context of sustainable development. Sustainable development, which has been a great deal of talk over the last decade, has three pillars, three criteria, three dimensions. Economic, i.e. GDP, social, that is, social cohesion and environmental. The combination of the three criteria is the key to the generations of the future. You can't optimise only one of the three criteria, because then the solutions you get are not viable. This tripartite must be compass in all policy decisions by the smallest, for example, a small investment, up to the largest, that is, a strategic project for the country. Economic growth, therefore, without social cohesion, is a palace built in sand. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me close with some more general considerations. In the modern world but, above all, in the European context, a country can only be supported for its development on the private initiative. Political government was another era in the 1970s and 1980s. But it is difficult to dig this in Greece, in the country of state-owned capitalism, which even the right-wing parties that have been ruling, have had a state-owned perception. No state, then, but yes to a firm, effective state that plays its role, that is to say it will lay the rules and monitor their compliance. Same rules for everyone, equal opportunities for all, open procedures, open and non-closed institutions, a regulator, landlord and not a business state. Without such a firm state it will not succeed, but neither the private sector nor the private sector can you have wealth and resources to finance your public policies. Public and private sectors in modern states, therefore, are doomed to coexist, needing each other. So the issue is which public sector and which private sector. In Greece, however, where we see them all black and white and we like to smack, depending on the ideological perspectives of each individual views the entrepreneurs lame or the civil servants lazy. If we do not escape these stereotypes at last, we are doomed to sinking into the corral of recession. The populism that fuels these stereotypes like so many others will finally throw the country to the margin and then some will rub their hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing our debate with the Minister and Mr Loverdos, who will have three minutes each. Would you like to precede Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u145	No, and I don't know if I need to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u146	Do you want to speak, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u147	If you can, Minister, include something that is not your responsibility. It would be good to see if the Scientific Committee of the Development Council under Mr Cragel ever met. If she met, if she did anything. It's not your responsibility, it's the Minister's.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u148	Minister, if you'd like to say anything, if you'd like to finish the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u149	Just two minutes, Mr. President. I have to reply to Mr Loverdos, who, once again in my political remarks, responded with a matching of SYRIZA with European extreme right forces. I think - I think - that this is an approach, which is unspeakable and political. Fortunately, Mr Loverd's colleagues in Europe do not agree with that logic, the European Social Democrats seem to be. I think that what makes sense at some point on the part of PASOK and Democratic Partnership is ultimately in the strategic dilemma that is in front of them, how they are placed. Or with Blair or Gorby and the two together. Issues have also been raised in secondary cases, which are important. It will also allow me to correct him in relation to the law on authorisations to which he referred, which, in fact, was passed last November - December in the Greek Parliament and because it is just a framework law, it includes...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u150	No, summer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u151	The law on business permits was passed in December. It is a framework law, which includes a number of secondary regulations, ministerial decisions, circulars, which need to be adopted, so that it can be implemented. This process, therefore, informs you that it is progressing properly and on the basis of the initial timetable. For this reason, I am telling you that the new information system has been in operation for almost a month, through which the entire licensing procedure for these enterprises is being carried out electronically for the first time. We will be announcing the next week and the official information, but know that more than three thousand businesses have already joined this new law licensing system, which we voted on last year. However, issues have also been raised more widely, which, if you wish, do not relate to the debate which arises from the specific questions of the question, but which is understandable, because the question of development is certainly not exhausted on the issues of financial instruments or institutional interventions to improve the economic environment. For example, issues relating to justice have been raised. I have been asking the questions, but I am surprised that the position of representatives of the Democratic Alliance and of the New Democracy, who are now being dealt with for the first time, is as if these groups had not been governed for for forty years in this country. The question of justice, for example, and the delay in the performance of justice and how this can affect investment, is an issue that has taken place over the last two years? Wasn't he being treated all the previous years? None of us derives from virginity, and we do not deal specifically with such structural issues, in a way that tries to transfer responsibility. I say this because, in my opinion, the challenge that this government has to face is double. It is not just about the issues of the budgetary crisis which has taken place over the last seven eight years. It has to do with even more, I would say, and with pathogens of the productive model, which have existed for many years in the financial crisis. This double challenge is to be tackled. Of course, issues which have also been raised by the KKE Member, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, in relation to what is exactly growth and who is benefiting from this development are issues which concern us as well. These are, in fact, the issues that we should discuss in the next period, namely how this development will not be a bubble, as has happened many times in the past, how it will be a sustainable development, how it will be a development that has social characteristics, how it will be a development that has local and regional characteristics, how it will be a development that takes into account environmental specificities. Of course, I would say, above all, that it will be a development which will lead to a recovery of work, a reintroduction of labour relations. What I gave in my first speech, I tried to show that we were trying to achieve this through the available funding and institutional interventions. We do not adopt the neoliberal logic of 'trickle down', which says first that the wealth generated will be increased by aid and then to see how, and if possible, it will be distributed more fairly. We believe that now that we are in the phase of economic upswing, at the stage when we are entering a developmental orbit, we must now also put these questions to the attention of us and now see these issues, with the programmes that we are running and the actions that we have announced. That's exactly what I tried to do with numbers. I did not just want to fly numbers in the air, but to show that a vote, action, we are trying, precisely, to change this productive model and that is what we are going to do in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u153	Thank you. From what you say, I would like to comment on four issues very briefly. When a party is governed, for example, by the ACF in Cyprus, when it was governed, all our party formations in Europe, the political brothers who are joining the Socialist Party, this party coming from the left, even though it is a communist party like the ACF, are somehow trying to approach it. It is called upon by its ministers to be an observer at the Councils of Ministers, those of the ministers that belong to parties that govern, where we do not govern but are present. This does not make you delusional and obscure the political scenery. Because that is exactly what is happening with you. In fact, I have to say to the National Representation that many of my fellow Members of the Democratic Union who are taking part in these pre-Councils are standing very honestly towards you. Let's say they don't transfer what Mr. Tsakalotos says here, which is something they could do to show resentment of foreign and domestic speech. We speak creatively and in a mood. The examples are too much. This is a situation that also makes it weirder in your eyes and you are trying to use it when, for example, the socialist is speaking, but Commissioner now, Mr Moscovisi. When we ruled, Mr. Moscovisi came here, told us the best that the negotiations were closing, and so on, he flattered us internationally, and when he went there, in the organs he participated, he said the opposite. There is no need, Minister, for our word to contain references to this. We are clear, we are clear, we are part of the European Socialist Party and after the next elections that you will see what the people hold you, we have another story between us, as far as the centre and the centre-left are concerned. The honourable Member, Mr Dimitriadis, but you also reacted politically when I said that populism from all over Europe only won in Greece. You know, what I'm saying is true and completely accurate. I don't care where populism comes from. I don't care if it comes from the extreme right and it's Mrs. Lepen or from the left, of course, it's Madour there you, or the Podemos of 2010. I don't care at all. People'sism is populism. It's the resentment of speech and deeds. It's the ruthlessness of real potential and the resultant reason. It's, like, what I'm saying and what I'm doing. It is, I win votes with silky slogans promising everything, and I do other things when I come to rule. That's populism! In the meantime, my course towards power for the Greek people - which you have only won here - says that you have made an effort to tackle the crisis by 2014, do it again now, after you have brought the populists up and not the frustrationists to power. So it is not surprising to unify the political spaces on the basis of this criterion that I have mentioned. In addition, however, Minister, you have Mr Kammenos's partner with the ties by not voting for any law, which you are proposing for human rights. It is from us that your laws pass, because we have declared our faith, and the Potami, on fundamental rights. Your partner is pushing you, pushing you, as last time with the examinations, into places you would not want or at least not everyone would like to share. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, a moment ago he said that he would not mind an examination of NOOR-1. Mr. Kammenos is pushing you! You are like Mr Kammenos slowly and that is more tied to the argument I have put before him. Finally, with regard to permits, to go to this point, what I say is that what I say is accurate. Let's talk about sanitary shops...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u154	And what I'm saying is accurate. Based on evidence, I'm talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u155	You're the one who invokes formality for me. I call upon you to live and I am a lawyer and I am a lawyer, and I am an active lawyer. You may say that you are licensed and come after I check your data, cover weaknesses, but there are so many actors involved, that the municipality can tell you "excitement" and never start, but they never spend months and don't say they are provided...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u156	I spoke very specifically about the implementation of the law, Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u157	Please, I'm closing. Do not say that they are subject to administrative regulations. These can also do one and two and three years to be issued and do not identify these regulatory acts with the circulars, which are an interpretation of the law, which can be issued once the law is passed on to a day. Circulars are gone, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u158	That's what I'm telling you! They were issued.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u159	Let's see what happens when you complete the action, because in 2013 a law was passed by Mr. Hatzidakis and it was not implemented. So caging licenses is real. I don't care about the reason, I care about the result, and you who count it most from the opposition, because you're government, that's what you should be most concerned with. Finally, you are absolutely right as far as the previous ones are concerned. We are not virgins, we are not against each other, nor are you the consulate of the problems. Did I say that? But also to us that we have governed, you can find - to me personally telling you this - since 2009 stressing the need to decapitate the economy from the state. We owed a lot. Development and good weather and also the time of the crisis have been hampered over our days. But it is a question of evolving. You're government and we're talking to you, we're not talking to a minister, not about growth. We're not telling Mr. Kammenos. I'll see you guys, who have the final care of the growth patterns. But in my speech, because we must also say that, I mentioned the changes to the Code of Civil Procedure, which accelerated the trials. You voted for it because they took you out of the ear. You have denounced it as opposition and prepared it by the Government of Samara - Venizelos with the main responsibility of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Ministry of Kanellopoulos. I told you this. There's been one step. You didn't want to. In the House you voted for it in the stagnation. We were all here in the summer of 2015 and it was Minister Paradise. Two years since then, should this not have been extended to administrative law, to administrative courts and administrative matters? I had to!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Loverdo, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u161	You have the method, which is given by us to you. You're not moving on. That is our criticism and you must accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, my colleague. Minister, do you have any comment to finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u163	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, I would like the floor for half a minute to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u165	Yes, Mr. Demetriades, but if possible, in a minute or so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u166	Yes, Mr. President. On the political issue I wanted to make a clarification to my colleague. He talked about populism in Europe, mentioning examples of the far right that was defeated and of the SYRIZA who won.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u167	And Podemos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u168	This creates a framework for political correlations. We're not naive. It's unprecedented, it's original, and what Mr. Loverdos said is being evaluated. As regards the second, the fact that we do not have a good relationship with populism stems from the fact that we elections in the summer of 2015 won them with a very specific programme called the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u169	The parallel.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u170	There's no version of populism, but we were talking about other things. We went down with the programme of financial stability, which we signed this summer. With this programme we went down to the elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 4 May 2017, Friday 5 May 2017, Monday 8 May 2017, Wednesday 10 May 2017, Thursday 11 May 2017 and Friday 12 May 2017 have been distributed, and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u172	The minutes of Thursday 4 May 2017, Friday 5 May 2017, Monday 8 May 2017, Wednesday 10 May 2017, Thursday 11 May 2017 and Friday 12 May 2017 were validated. The debate on the number 9/10-2-2017 topical question on "Development: The illusion of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL continues". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-07-S1-commons.u173	With the consent of the House at 14.46 hours the sitting for the next Monday, July 10, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
