ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 10-10-2017, the minutes of its VI sessions, Tuesday 10 October 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Legal recognition of gender identity - National Mechanism for the Training, Monitoring and Evaluation of Action Plans for the Rights of the Child and other Provisions".]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 13 October 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 43/9-10-2017 by Mr Simos Kedicoglou, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Speech for the selection of the President and CEO of the Anonymous Society of Ports of Evia’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 33/6-10-2017 by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Without ELTA Patmos, due to the extermination of the unique official". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) The question by No 44/9-10-2017 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Request to the European Union (EU) for the financing of rehabilitation projects in Kos' infrastructure, which have been damaged by the earthquake".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS According to the information of the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, today's topical question issue will not be discussed for the following reasons: The fourth question under number 70/10-10-2017, with regard to New Monastery of Chios, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr. Konordos, abroad. Also, the first question under number 36/9-10-2017 of the First Cycle of the MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Completion of work for the formation and fence of an expropriated area at the airport of Chios and construction of an extension of the Christos road", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzi, as it is located at the Development Conference in Thessaly. For the same reason, the third question under number 29/5-10-2017, the first question of the Senate MP of the Democratic Compact PASOK - DMAR Mr.Michael Jelloni, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new Toll Stations on the Promahona - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki, is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres". The second question under number 42-9-10-2017 of the New Republic MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Each road axis of Drama - Amphipolis", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister responsible. The second question, under number 41/9-10-2017, of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning measures on the demographic problem of the country, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the relevant Minister, Mr. Theanos Fotou, who is in a meeting with representatives of European institutions. For the same reason, the fourth question under number 68/10-10-2017 will not be discussed in the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the deadlocks in the functioning of the children's stations and the thousands of children excluded from these structures. Also, there will be no discussion of the sixth question under number 69/10-10-2017, first question by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the immediate compensation of the flood victims and the restoration of the damage in Samothraki, due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior Mr. Skourletis, because he represents the government in events for the liberation of Athens. Finally, the sixth question under number 71/10-10-2017 of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "To re-enter the arbitrary school-leaved cleaners in the Municipality of Zitsa in the Prefecture of Ioannina", will not be discussed for the same reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Jelloney, why do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u6	I would like to talk about postponing the timely question I have tabled on tolls in Serres Prefecture. I would like to point out to the Bureau that this is the eleventh consecutive time that the Minister refuses to attend parliamentary control. It is now invoked as being at the Larissa Development Conference. Mr. Apostle was there late last night. Mr. Apostle is here today. Mr. Spirtz is evading to attend Parliament, degrading it. I would ask the Bureau to take a position! It's the eleventh consecutive deferral. Finally, this secret from the ministers, because they are ashamed of what they were saying in the election, will have to stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u7	Mr Jellée, the Bureau, as you know, and all the Presidents are members of the Conference of Presidents. They have raised this special issue on several occasions for all the ministers. It has changed the way in which the Ministers in Parliament - in other words, they are being put together - to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Spirtzis has had to attend parliamentary control since the sixth month. Since the sixth month!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u9	From there on, it is the government's task, because as you have heard, the Secretary-General of the Government is aware of the inability of the ministers to be here and invoke the relevant reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u10	It's not weakness! I told you that Mr. Apostlelos was here today, while he was together yesterday at the Development Conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u11	Yes, I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u12	It is a deliberate escape to parliamentary work!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u13	Whatever it is, it's a matter of government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Cryazides and you on the same subject do you want to put yourself on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u16	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u17	Good, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I have had the feeling that I am wrong, in the sense that this is the fourth time the issue of the isolation of Drama - and I mean road - has been on the way - but my colleague said that this is the eleventh time that Mr Spirtz is not coming. I therefore consider myself lucky - and the Draminists too - that at any rate at the eleventh time Mr Spirtz may be coming to us to answer us, because there is a huge mockery. In March it should have been discussed in April the same thing in May. You told us that the process was changing and that the ministers would be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u19	The process's changed, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u20	Yes, and what, Mr President, has changed? Has something really changed? They avoid any control, and this is a challenge, a deterioration, a destabilisation of our presence. Let's close it, let's finish, anyway, going to another regime. This practice and practice cannot be continued. When people there gravitate, is it possible for this process to continue? I can assure you that when a bill from the Ministry of Infrastructure comes to plenary, there will be a reaction from me. It's no different. How are we gonna react? The Bureau is doing well and intervening. You see, as your Bureau, this is an insult to you, but also to us as parliamentarians, we are being despised. Anyway, let's get out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Kyriazides, I told you that the Bureau of Parliament changed the way the ministers appeared in the House to make it easier for ministers to come, to know the date...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, we do not see that, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u23	From that point on, as I said to Mr. Jelloni, the government through its Secretary informs the House of why the ministers...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u24	It is, however, a bad time for the Minister for Infrastructure. Mr. Apostle was together yesterday. Mr Spirtzi's appeal is obviously, 'You know, I'm at a conference'. But he was with Mr. Apostle at the conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Cryazides, it's a government matter. Once again your protests will come to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u26	The government deceives, equals everything. We must protest. We see that we are addressing unhearing ears. We have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u27	All right, Mr. Comrade. We move to the debate of the first under No. 38-9-10-2017 topical question of second-round Members of Parliament II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The Support Account of the National Bank of Greece (LEPETE)". The Deputy Minister of Labour will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, good morning. Good morning, Minister. The question I submitted today concerns the developments regarding the Personal Bank's Privacy Account, the so-called LEPETE, which was set up under the legal form of a "special account" for the needs of workers at the National Bank as an agreement between the employees' association and the administration of the National Bank in 1949. On the basis of his Regulation, he is a resident, a common special account under the heading ‘Help Account of the National Bank of Greece’. The purpose of this account is to provide monthly assistance to the outgoing and outgoing staff of the National Bank. I would stress this because it is a special account, because many are last written on an ancillary fund and so on. LEPETE resources are employee contributions and contributions from the National Bank, 3.5% and 9% respectively. It is run by an eight-member management committee. Today in LEPETE they are insured for about four thousand nine hundred workers at the National Bank - those who make contributions, that is - while pensioners are about sixteen thousand five hundred. Recently the management of the National Bank, and in particular the CEO, sent two letters - one on July 28 and one on September 28 - to the associations of employees and pensioners of the EIB and to the Management Committee, stating that the EIB is unable to pay subsidiary after October 2017. The main argument of the administration is the risk of the company's viability. I give two letters for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Charula (Haras) Kafantaris, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, keep the time from my denunciation. I will mention the time of this account: It has been working since 1949, but it has been a overwhelming blow to its course.Law 3371/2005, which provides that workers employed in the National since 1 January 2005 will be insured with the IKA subsidiary - EKAM. This regulation, therefore, makes LEITE a closed scheme, because there are no more contributions from new workers. A burden for LEITE’s finances has been the successive voluntary cost plans at the National level since 1999. The appropriate amounts provided for in Article 69 of Law 3371/2005, have not been paid by the bank to the LEI. Also, the substitution of normal bonus pay in the form of bonuses - which has been done very much in recent years - which are not subject to insurance contributions, is indeed depriving the LEITE of resources. We note that in 2007 the National administration attempted to implement a plan for the integration of LEITE into the Mortal EFF, but without the willingness to make a financial contribution. This, however, after reactions from workers, pensioners and their associations, has not been implemented. On 1 August 2008, the main worker insurance fund was incorporated into the National Insurance Fund at the IKA under Law 3655/2008. Then the administration made a strange move. He suspended payment of the subsidiary benefit for a few days. There have been movement of workers - retired, and the benefit has finally been paid. Since then, it has provided the necessary amounts each month in the form of borrowings with a guarantee to the shares of the National Bank held by LEPETE. Then it has been followed - and so far it has been - the practice of the cash facility on the basis of some agreeable, unknown, I would say. The total annual resources of the account are about 30 million. It concerns, as we have said, four and a half thousand workers. Annual benefits - pensions are 135 million. So there's a problem. In doing so - and I am ending with this prototype - the administration of the national state to dismiss the financial management and the proper functioning of the LEPETE, is also involved in the government, Minister, in resolving this bilateral dispute. It proposes that the EIF, the Single Assistance Fund and one-off benefits be provided. In fact, the bank does not assume its obligations. This ultimatum - the two documents that I tabled for the Minutes - is a cause for disruption among the workers and pensioners, who have already made progress and on Friday they will proceed again to strike moves. Minister, will the Government allow the exemption of the National Bank from its obligations towards workers and pensioners?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. Time-to-time prototype has covered both dentology, but in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u30	You'll give me two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. As this is a very serious matter, I would also agree to give Mrs Kafantaris the possibility of a dentistry. This account of the subsidiary of the National Bank has supported the bank for all years since its creation. In fact, because of the fact that there has also been talk of shares that, as a pledge, were held to provide funding from the pensions bank for pensioners there, these shares were purchased in support of the bank from ERIPTE's money at different intervals. So, from this point of view, LPETE supported the National Bank. This is also known at the National Bank. It is common secret how banks and PPC used to operate in particular, as they maintained in their own services the operation of relevant pension schemes. In fact, the benefits in question were managed by the Bank's Directorate for Insurance. Therefore, I am not ignorant, Mrs Kafantaris, how LEPETE works and how the bank has been operating all these years, but it is not ignored either. For this reason, I will not get away from the position that I have expressed from the outset, that is an issue that the bank itself has to resolve with the collective representation of workers and pensioners. After all, this was also the position that has been formulated by the International Labour Organisation since 2005 - the report with number 334- highlighting the bank's obligation to negotiate this issue. That is the right solution. But even though the bank itself has indeed adopted the relative position that I myself have now expressed, and the international body, the International Labour Organisation, has stated, over all these years, that all these decades have not done anything. It is clear that at the moment our attitude cannot be formulated differently. I have also said that to the bank, I have said this to everyone: the bank must negotiate and find an appropriate solution to this issue. The fact is that the bank's abstention over the years from a wise management of the matter has led the situation here. It is not a responsibility of our government. This does not mean, of course, that we should not stand as a government with the proper political response to this issue, but that it has been subject to the prior negotiation and finding a solution from the parties themselves, because this account has been founded on the basis of collective autonomy, on the basis of the agreement between the workers at the bank since 1949 even evolved. Despite the different legislative interventions of the Greek legislator, it maintained this way of operation. In fact, even the position of the bank itself, i.e. the bank's agents, in its resolution of Law 3371/2005, led to the choice at that time of maintaining that account rather than breaking it down. If it were - and it had to be - a different management, then the bank should still have solved the issue by Law 2084/1992 and not bring it to date in a way that will actually have dramatic consequences. We are not going to contribute to such a development.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 21st Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u34	In fact, it is a matter and an issue that is not currently the case. He's got a story of years. I would like to comment on the argument of the bank's own national viability risk if LEPETE continues to operate. We note that over the last few years the National has gone to urban recruitment of consultants, "Gold" contracts with specialists and companies, "outsourcing" work. All this is a burden on the bank's expenses. However, in the sense of its administration, subsidiary benefits which are also a contractual obligation on pensioners constitute a risk. Clearly, we are interested in the viability of the country, as are the workers and pensioners. The liquidity of banks in today's conditions is necessary to finance a recurring Greek economy. Of course, it is also the issue of the management of red loans. However, there are also the workers and pensioners, those who have contributed for decades - since its establishment - to having the National Bank we have, who are in danger of staying without subsidiary. If the administration's intention is to dismantle, stop subsidiary provision by the end of October, I would say that we will perhaps have a new generation of red loans, because many have housing loans, cards, etc. and will be unable to meet their credit obligations. Minister, we really need dialogue and sincere negotiation - and when I say sincerely, I mean without threats, without ultimatums - to resolve the issue between the two sides, namely workers and pensioners on the one hand and the administration of the National Bank on the other. But a solution needs to be found within the framework of the LEITE, this special account, so that there can continue to be decent subsidiary benefits for the national pensioners, without, of course, putting the company at risk. This is, indeed, a bilateral issue. However, as you have said before in your position, the Government's interest in the social issue created for the 16 000 five-and-a-half pensioners is a given one. But, Minister, it really must be avoided that the bank's administration intends to send pensioners to the public body to avoid its obligations. Unfortunately, the story in the banking sector has been years and this has been done before in the 1990s, through merger and takeover procedures in the banking system. I think that the case of TAPILT - AT, a fund which now ends up giving, instead of benefits, tips to pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Please, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Because I have been very concerned about this over the past few days in particular, I have sought and seen the relevant issues of the functioning of this body. Since 1949, it has provided how it operates and how decisions on the fate of subsidiary insurance are taken at the National Bank, in particular Article 4 of the relevant Regulation, which is the law of operation in fact with regulatory effect. I say law, but it's not standard law. It is a regulation which forms part of the general working conditions for the National Bank. And the amendment procedure is put in place, provided that the Management Committee takes the relevant decision by a majority of 4/5 members. The bank then proceeds to the relevant arrangements, based on the general deadlines of the special account and after approval of the bank’s board of directors. This procedure cannot be violated by our side. I've said it. I'm showing it again. Therefore, the mechanism exists. The procedures are laid down and must be complied with without any derogation. I wonder why the administration, like all the previous ones, has not been sitting here talking to workers and pensioners to resolve this issue. It's a demonstration of irresponsibility and lack of seriousness. I say it that way. It is not possible for so many years to bring together so many problems against workers - which in the end are called upon to pay the marble - with a bank which simply showed a solution for the future, which has never been chosen. And the solution is specific: to discuss, sit down, to be taken at noon. From now on, if they haven't started yet, they will. There is no case at all, for our part, that we should do anything other than what the relevant regulatory provisions apply to the bank in this respect. Do not drink water, not eat bread. To end and agree. That's how it's done. And there's no other way from Step that. I assure you, Mrs Kafantaris, that this is the Ministry's position on this matter. The bank is invited to start the negotiations. The workers' association and the pensioners' association sit on a table to find a solution, just as these issues have to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. We move to the fifth, with number 37/9-10-2017, a timely question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary Evros of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Anastasia Garas to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Agriculture at the School of Sciences of Agriculture and Forestry of the Democritus University of Thrace". Please, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Apostle, for your presence. I would like to raise a particularly important issue, at least for my own region. It concerns the scientific community, but also the producer community and the local economy and society of Evros as a whole. It is about the operation of the Democrat University of Thrace. As you know - a brief history - in 1999, the Democritus University of Thrace was extended to Orestiad with two parts, a rural economy, agriculture and a part of forestry. The university's contribution to the local society of northern Evros and the whole region of Thrace is very important. In particular, the Agricultural University is not only contributing to the expansion and strengthening of research, knowledge and production of new scientists, it also contributes to the quality of products, to the strengthening, advice and support of farmers in our region, a community that is quite large in Evros, as you know. However, this university since its establishment lacks basic infrastructure in Orestiad. I would say that it is also characterised by a relative indifference from the governments that have spent so many years. And why am I saying that? It lacks basic infrastructure for the education of scientists, but also for cooperation with local society, particularly with producers. Recently, by our government and under your signature, a building of "ELGO - DIMITRA" has been given to the Democritus University of Thrace, at the Agricultural Department of Orestiad, in order to create workshops in which young scientists and young researchers, undergraduate and postgraduate students can experiment. The work is already completed and will be given to the university. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. And what we are asking today is to grant a farm, owned by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to the Democritus University of Thrace. It is a timely request of the school that this property be granted, an area of thirty - three thousand five hundred square meters, which is part of the number of six plots, a total area of eighty-four thousand and ten square meters, the reafforestation of an Orestiad farm in 1973-74. This plot is located very close to the premises of the Democritus University of Thrace, and this will help not only to strengthen research, to experiments but to cooperate with the local community. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The question therefore, Mr President, is whether there is the intention of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to solve this more than a decade's loose end and to satisfy the request from the University of Evros and what action you will take to make this concession and finally to strengthen basic infrastructures and needs of the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u39	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u40	My fellow Member, as you are well aware, is a basic prerequisite for promoting the primary sector of our country. It is the activity in the agricultural sector of people with appropriate training and highly qualified qualifications. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food serves this perception, and that is why it wants and aims at the potential, I would say, of staff who will deal with the agricultural sector to strengthen it as much as possible. During my term of office at the Ministry, I have signed fifty decisions of this nature, particularly with regard to public interest, but also to the training of young farmers in particular. In the context of this conception and function, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and, of course, in conjunction with its policy on the use of these lands, will positively see the demand of the Democritus University of Thrace for the concession of the thirty-three thousand five hundred square acres, because these are educational needs of the School of Agriculture and Forestry, an activity which is very important for the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. However, I would like to repeat what you have said, as well, that we have a cooperation with the particular university that comes from a long time ago. We have already made a concession since December 2015 to cover housing and educational needs. I am also saying this because a building, which had been abandoned, was looted, allocated to the university and with their own efforts, has been almost restored and has therefore begun to meet the needs of the university. So, in conclusion, I would like to tell you that in the next few days, because there is a procedure, I will sign this concession decision, in particular by stressing that we particularly want to see the young farmers who enter the area strengthened by the appropriate training and, of course, the students in the school in the outermost region, who really need this kind of support.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is a very pleasant answer to your answer and the intention to put an end to this pendingity and to grant this parcel to the university community and, above all, to the Democritus University of Thrace. I hope, and I hope that this will end very soon. As you said, the signature will be completed in the next few days. After all, more than ten years, this request has been made. It is delightful that it will end in the next few days. I keep your commitment. However, what I would like to note from the Step of the House is that the Democritus University of Thrace and especially the Orestiadas Department are already ahead of his time, I would say, because he has a very good and advanced cooperation with the local society and especially with the rural society of Evros. Findings from research that improve crop quality and methods and product quality go to the field. The farmers of local society are trained. What I would like to say is that, for your own part, the Ministry, but also our own, must be exhausted - and I put it first - all the possibilities for this cooperation between the university and research community with local societies and economies, particularly producers and farmers, so that we can spend another era, a different era of cultivation, a different era of rural economy. The last thing I would ask, and from this step, is to exhaust all the margins and possibilities so that we can make use of all the meticulous property that is owned by the public, and for many decades now remains inactive, such as the plot we have mentioned, such as the building that has now been turned into a laboratory for experiments on the ability and disposal of students. And there are other farms for which I would ask that we work together so that they can be allocated to rural communities and producer communities in order to facilitate and strengthen the work of these people. Thank you again. It is pleasant to welcome your intention and I hope that soon the issue of signing the concession of this agricultural parcel will come to an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u44	Madam President, since you have referred to the use of the land and, in general, the property of the Ministry of Rural Development, I would like to point out that we are currently in a process of meeting needs in all the schools concerned with rural activity. They will also be allocated to other regions. At the same time, the great issue we are serving is to safeguard the diffuse public property, both in terms of rural areas and of course in terms of facilities. What we've done is, by setting up an organization, the DIAGE, we're trying to protect these properties. Of course, protection is not just registration. It is also the right use, especially when we are targeting the introduction of young farmers as a basic target. You realise that in this direction and at the same time supporting cooperative schemes will channel the concrete exploitation of the property of the Ministry of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. Next is the third with number 35/6-10-2017, a topical question by the MEP of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “The Ministry of Rural Development and Food does not resolve the integration of the leading young farmers of Elias in measure 6.1 of the Rural Development Programme (PAA)”. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. We all agree, Minister, that we all need a renewal of the population in the countryside and that the role of young farmers in the reconstruction of the primary sector is important. But it seems, Minister, that you did not make good accounts. And it seems that you did not make good accounts, because the system of allocation of resources has led to great imbalances. It appears that some regions have no perpetrators, while other regions have entrants exceeding 1/3 of applications. The region of Western Greece, which belongs to the prefecture of Ilias, has about four hundred twenty-eight people, of whom a large part is in the prefecture of Ilias. With the information I gave in my question in July, when the results were obtained, I said that we have in Elijah the lowest percentage of the requests that were met. It was only satisfied 60 percent. This shows an imbalance within the region. So something you haven't done well. I told you my question, after giving the evidence, to give a solution to the people involved by identifying the problem in Elias. You answered me three months later, together with another twenty - thirty colleagues who had asked a question about their regions. The answer was "other words to be loved", because it refers to the overcompensation of 10%, but one of which was made by Mr Tsipras in Western Macedonia. For reasons that apply also to Elias, he said that all applications would be met. The other party has received five regions to make additional notices. I did not see in a mini-review you asked, ask for more money or go back for more overcompensation. I would therefore like you to answer with specific figures whether these young farmers who have the purpose of living in the countryside and produce, have no hope of being justified by the policy you are going to pursue to satisfy the applications that have not been accepted and are currently waiting. I wait with interest for me, but I imagine with much more interest the young people who have a life vision to stay and produce on the fertile plains of Elias, but also in mountainous volumes as farmers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, you have not referred to the basic point, namely that the allocation of these amounts was after consultation with the regions. It was the regions which, together with them, set the criteria on the basis of which this breakdown would be made. From that point on, three categories emerged from the distribution that we agreed together. One category was the regions which were unable to absorb the specific amounts allocated to them. That is where we agreed there would be a second chance. In regions with more demands, there have been perpetrators. In other regions we have had no problem. What do we do now? Too simple - you know - the first batch came in. It was given 70% of what we had made a distribution. We are now entering the second phase, which is to see what we are going to do with the regions that did not cover and the regions which have problems with the participants. But we have a sum from the overcompensation, which we kept, because we expected that there would be such problems. So we are now going to do the announcement immediately for the three - four regions, which have an excess, to give them what I have told you, the second chance. From there on, for whatever money they have left behind and, of course, with the stock at the end, we will be reopening for the regions that have been involved. We in the account we've done we estimate that over 50% of the participants will join. And since you mentioned in particular in Western Macedonia, I would like to tell you that Western Macedonia is a region which is a champion - I mean in the negative view - of unemployment issues, an area that you know is in a transitional period and we said to give the opportunity, in particular, to present strategic plans to promote agriculture, to get everyone in. We believe that on the way, through and overcompensation to the measures relating to the Rural Development Programme, the improvement plans and everything else we see on the way, we will give those who do not enter the other process the opportunity to join. I would like, Mr President, to make one thing clear between us, because I always see everyone dealing with the young farmers, how they will get in to get that distribution, not to mention what has happened over the past few years with this kind of procedure, and what is all of us thinking about. The aim of all of us must be to stay as permanent as possible for young farmers as possible. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] For these issues in my dentistry, I'm going to say more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u50	Minister, we all agree that those who join the programme must remain and produce. That is why I have not referred to the rejected requests for Elijah, which were left out because of a low score, despite the fact that we should also see this issue. Why did we have a low score in a particular area, which is primarily agricultural, as 50% of GDP produced and above it is from the primary sector? Because Elijah has neither a heavy industry nor a tertiary sector. And that doesn't seem to have bothered you. But let us now come to the perpetrators. The perpetrators in Western Greece are four hundred twenty-eight. With the money of overcompensation - because I have made the accounts, and I challenge you, Mr Minister, to quote the figures and numbers to which you have referred - there will be no 1/3 of the best, I repeat, that overcompensation will have an apportionment on the basis of applications. Because, from what you have said to us, I conclude that it will not have a proportional distribution. I do not know what other region Mr Tsipras is going to go to, and what else he will say, because unemployment is not just Western Macedonia, it also has Western Greece, and I invite you to see the indicators. If you assume, then, at best, that you are making a proportionate distribution, you do not reach the money for 1/3 of the participants. And your answer 'from what you have left behind', I think it is irreversible and wrong, Minister. You must fight to secure more resources. And that must be done, whether by increasing the commitment or in the mid-term review, to claim more, to propose an increase in the resources of measure 6.1 for young farmers. Based on what you have told us and also by making the accounts, because Elias has had the lowest rate of meeting the applications with the information I have given you, not even 1/4 of the participants will be met. Approximately agrees mid - edges, and the region based on its estimates that of the four hundred twenty - eight, about one hundred fifty - one hundred seventy persons will be satisfied. So the hundred and fifty of Elijah cannot wait, on the basis of what you told us, much more they cannot wait for the hundred and twenty who were rejected because of a low score. Therefore, Minister, your answer is not just satisfactory, but I would say that it also shows an unsuccessful response from the Ministry of Electricity that has been created and the expectations that have been cultivated and led thousands of young people who have chosen to stay and produce in the countryside to apply, expecting that the government would receive a provision for them. Unfortunately, I am sorry, I hope you will deny me in your dentext for the good of young farmers and the countryside.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u52	Mr Colleague, I understand your anxiety, but to say that our position is defeated and that the approach does not work. It doesn't work for a simple reason. I agree with you on what you say to see as potential young farmers, in principle, who are engaged and then rejected. Let's see this thing. But you will also agree with me that we cannot proceed on our own. You know that in particular in the Rural Development Programme with Regional Government we have a relationship I would say every day. A working group has been set up for all problems and we are trying to approach them by consensus. So you realise that since we have committed ourselves to regions which have not absorbed the sums, we will also do this. We cannot plan without having calculated what amounts will be left over from there. We have the overcompensation. I didn't say we wouldn't see things in the future. The amendment and transfer of funds from one measure to another has not yet begun. You can see that we cannot haunt it, because we will not have specific figures in terms of course. So, for our part, all this is within our planning, but you know that without the approval of the European Commission, we cannot make such moves. We have already made a first change. We are preparing for a second amendment. In view of the 'Omnibus', which is completed in mid-term review, we have intervened. So, be sure that only defeated is not our approach, and at least we understand that every day. I think what you and all of Greece brought together yesterday as a picture of Thessaly showed something else beyond what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine German visitors. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will now discuss the fifth under number 39/9-10-2017 a topical question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panayotas Vranjas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "National reserve of payment entitlements". Mrs. Vanja, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today is a good day for farmers. The procedure is followed by the debate and the vote of a bill which is very important to the rural world of our country. It concerns the compulsory registration of the country of origin of milk, milk products and meat and also the payment of fresh and vulnerable products over the sixty days. The government's intention is clear: Strengthening the production process and ensuring fairness and transparency at all stages of production. In the same spirit was the Prime Minister's statement last night at the Larissa Regional Conference. It is necessary, the Prime Minister said, that the system for allocating the European Union's basic payment rights immediately should be revised. It is also my deep belief that the change in the system of allocation of rights will solve many problems and create a completely different landscape in the country's rural world. The same wavelength is moving my own question. It concerns the national reserve. Given the distorting and unjust distribution of the basic payment rights, which we have naturally inherited from the previous government and the conditions of unfair competition it creates, the national reserve acquires greater importance. In addition to supporting young and new farmers, it is also called upon to alleviate the great injustices between farmers with huge differences in the number and value of their rights. In accordance with Regulation 1307/2013, payment entitlements from the national reserve should be allocated by the Member States in accordance with objective criteria and in such a way as to ensure equal treatment of farmers and to avoid market and competition distortions. In accordance with the same Regulation, in Article 31, the national reserve shall be replaced annually on the basis of specific conditions. Thus, each Member State has the possibility to grant annually, but mainly in the first year of implementation of the programme period, rights of basic support to producers. The way in which the national reserve is allocated is in accordance with Decision 1047006/22-11-2015, which is the national proposal of the Common Agricultural Policy and there is a ministerial decision on 21-6-2017 regulating individual issues. While the rules of operation and distribution of the national reserve are clearly laid down, it is not at all clear, Minister, for those involved the result of the annual allocation. No one knows the number of applicants, the number and the value of the rights allocated and how many, what category and what are farmers who benefit from the allocation. Since the national reserve can be a tool to alleviate the injustices caused by the CFP in 2015-2020, because the opaque procedures may create conditions that favour the execution of illegal acts and transactions, because the lack of information is deterringly functioning for the entry of young people who would like to engage in the agricultural profession, I ask you the following question: Do you intend to institutionalise the disclosure of procedures, but also of the beneficiaries, such as amount, area, type and size of exploitation and age of applicants - and ultimately of the beneficiaries - of the allocation of the national reserve of the basic payment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u55	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u56	Madam President, you and we are dealing with the great issue of rights under the new regulation. At some point it must be understood that we are applying a regulation, which the previous governments have agreed in the framework of the common agricultural policy. Of course, the problem that has arisen is well known, especially for a group of young people who have lost their rights. We are doing a great deal of work, but at least we have managed to resolve the problem in part, with the agreement of the European Commission. From there on, after this process, to meet the needs, we proceeded with the adoption of a ministerial decision. I tell you that this is yesterday and perhaps it has not been made public. I signed a relevant Ministerial Decision, which amends the relevant 2015 decision and provides for an increase in the linear reduction in the value of all basic payment entitlements up to 4.5%, because we want to cover the cases of the allocation of rights to young farmers, starting from 2017. At the same time, of course, this decision also gives the young farmers who joined the measure who had this problem that I told you before. So at this point we have the people who will be joining us. There are ten thousand eighty-sixteen plus one thousand four hundred recruits - they will also go in - eleven thousand five hundred or eighty-six. To this we can add both thousands of eight hundred who have had the problem from the past. The two thousand two hundred go in. It is a well-known problem, Mr Colleague, that I see Mr Michelovannakis - particularly in Crete, with 'Forma 6' and is resolved in that direction. So we are actually giving the opportunity and strengthening the young people we have said. Of course, from there on, because you raised the big issue of rights, it is an issue that arises in all the discussions that we have done. Yesterday in Larissa it was also on the Prime Minister's side that we should see how we deal with it in the context of the new revision. And since the phrase 'couch farmers' is constantly being used, we simply say that it is not possible to go with rights that have been dragged back for years, depriving the people for whom we are all interested and we are all talking, to join this activity. We are prepared, with a view to the review, to table concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u57	Madam Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u58	Thank you for your information, and I understand that you also see the national reserve as a tool. Of course, I have some objections. It is not enough, in my opinion, only to increase the allocation rate of the national reserve in relation to the basic aid, and I will explain exactly what I mean. And, of course, I would point out that since we all agree that we need to revise the common agricultural policy and create a different way of sharing rights, we should be prepared in 2019 to table the proposal. The reason, therefore, for which I consider that the terms and conditions for the allocation of the national reserve are of high importance and of importance, is based on the experience we have had since 2015. According to data, among the beneficiaries of new entrants 2014-2015 there were many older pensioners. As you can see, this does not contribute either to the ageing renewal of the agricultural population or to the growth of production and productivity, nor to the development of the primary sector in general. Furthermore, the fact that the vast majority of these rights have been transferred since the first year shows that the whole process has been part of the well-known process, where the usual suspects earn as not to the detriment of young and basically healthy production forces. We could have avoided this if we introduced a very high retention rate - I propose 90% - for those who make direct transfers and I hope that this will be foreseen in the next allocations of the national reserve, as this is a national option and is not subject to European regulations. Furthermore, the choice of a new entrant for a single year is contrary to spirit but also to the essence of the regulation on ensuring equal treatment for farmers and avoiding market and competition distortions. There are many new entrants from the historical period - and you know what I mean - from the allocation of rights - I am talking about 2001 - very often young people still, because they started too early, with rights equal to 20% or 30% of the average of the region. These farmers, almost all of whom are conscious of their choice and not hunters of programmes and aid, have no luck in perpetuating. You also said about a horizontal reduction in rights. I believe that this will also be unfair, since we do not have the same regional distribution and value by rights, it does not make sense to bring in the same percentage of farmers with rights of less than twice the average of the region's average of those with rights of up to fifty times the value of the average. You can understand that this is not just an obstacle to the regulation, but, above all, to common sense. As regards livestock farming, where the aid is based on the pasture, which is distributed by the known sinful technical solution, the situation in terms of injustice and inequality becomes explosive. I think that payment to citizens of public money, national or European, should be governed by transparency and publicity - it is an issue that I want, Minister - always in accordance with existing national and Union legislation, which is not done for the national reserve. Here too, it is not enough to be honest, but we must also be honest. So I urge you to do everything necessary to ensure that, on the one hand, the national reserve is shared fairly and that it is productive and, on the other hand, that this is done with full transparency and that all the information is in the knowledge of farmers and all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Programme "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, sixteen students and students and an educational meeting from the 9th Primary School of Alimos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u60	Madam President, first of all I would like to agree with you, in particular in view of the revision of the new CAP, that we need to look at all these issues and, in particular, to transfer resources from the first to the second pillar. But at the moment we have to deal with matters on the basis of what we have before us. I say this because raising the reserve from 2% to 4.5% you realise it is a doubling and something. This has its effects by reducing the basic aid. So moves should be as measured as possible so that we don't have any more kinds of tramps. The second thing I would like to say is that it is not a simple thing to make names available, with sums, etc., because we may find ourselves in the breach of personal data. And from this point of view, we do not want to create problems, let alone when we have a European Commission behind us. However, since we have really started a debate on rights, we must, from our own point of view, start preparing for the European Commission to document our views when the time comes. Of course, we will do that, not on our own, but in cooperation with other countries, in particular with the countries of the South, where we have a common understanding on a number of issues - particularly on this issue -. We'll see all this, though, along the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. And now we are moving to the last for the last seven months under number 40/9-10-2017, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Theocharis (Charis) Theocharis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the delay in the compensation of affected fishermen from the pollution of Saronics. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the disaster suffered by Saronic fishermen is a given and existent. A month has passed since the shipwreck of the "Saint Zone" and the leak of the fuel oil, but delays are important and sufficient now. I think that the Ministry of Rural Development and Food should help fishermen, in fact since 1 October, the period for average fishing has been opened and for trawlers, so their profits and the threat to their financial situation are now specific. There are specific compensation procedures for affected fishermen, but at the moment we see that there are delays, as well as a lack of coordination of state services, which delays the claim of compensation from the International Oil Pollution Compensation Fund, established in London, as well as from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund under the 2014-2020 Operational Programme. So on the basis of the above I ask you: What are the actions you have taken for the financial relief of the fishermen affected from the pollution of Saronics? Is there provision for exceptional or even single compensation from national resources? If so, what is the number of fishermen to be financially supported? What progress has been made by the Ministry in drawing up the dossier in order to ensure the exceptional support for fishermen from the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme for damages due to the forced cessation of their economic activity? Have you contacted the Commissioner responsible for the environment to investigate all the available support measures for Saronic fishermen from this fund? Is there any intention of coordinating with the relevant ministries in order to achieve regulation on ‘commitment freeze’, for example, in the insurance funds of the affected fishermen to support the sector until their activity has been relaunched? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u63	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Comrade, you have spoken of delays. So let us see what we have done for all the difficult position the fishermen have found. We, once the incident has been known, have mobilised our services towards dealing as directly as possible with the problems that have arisen. There was a mobilisation, which was the first to see whether there are any direct effects on catches. That is why we started the same day, I would say, on-the-spot checks taking, of course, the relevant samples which, after days, showed that there was no impact on the catches that were available. That was particularly interesting to see what is happening at the Keratini Hill. From that point on, we have begun to monitor particularly the issues in cooperation with the other ministries, and what we so far have had in mind is that there has been no suspect sample of fish, fish in the fish auction. It is therefore an issue, which was at least a dominant issue in terms of the safety of catches. What has been said by many has been because we have not directly banned. For the sake of clarity, the coastal fishermen themselves have stopped on their own initiative and because there were no fish, since after the pollution the big fish have gone, but at the same time they know that if they use their tools in these polluted areas they are as if they were using their own tools. So there was no activity. Of course, we did not leave them without any information and immediately invited them to the Ministry and discussed with them the possibilities we have, so that we can definitely serve their need for a minimum income, because they have lost this particular period. We have examined the possibility, first of all, of seeing how through the Operational Fisheries Programme, from this Article 33, we will use this measure as a measure of the temporary cessation of fishing activities and we will establish a dossier in this respect. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] At the same time, of course, under the 2014-2020 Operational Fisheries Programme, we discussed with them the establishment of a Solidarity Fund, as provided for in Article 35 of the Regulation on the European Maritime Fund. In fact, the Operational Programme commits itself to setting up the 10 million euro fund. But, of course, it is also a prerequisite for the establishment of the Solidarity Fund to complete trade union representation. We also have this issue with fishermen. We have tabled - the consultation has been completed - a bill on the subject. This fund, as you can see, also needs the participation of fishermen. We are therefore looking at how we will create it to have a permanent situation - I would say - relationship to dealing with such situations. We also have Article 57 of this regulation on farms. To date, we have no sign that there are consequences for farms and shellfish. I would therefore suggest that we wait for the PPE's conclusion, because on this point I think we have all agreed that this procedure should be completed and that we will be going to the next steps.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u65	Please, Mr Theocharis, and again you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I can hear you and understand that we are talking about two types of action which you have described to us. One action is self-evident, to start studies to see how much this infection affected fish, shellfish and all the fish in general. This is useless with regard to the specific issue that we are discussing, because you yourself admit that the fishermen themselves have stopped fishing for themselves because they would use their tools. Most importantly, however, the world cannot be convinced that at the moment a middle family will go to buy a fish from Saronics while all this fuss has been done in relation to the infection that has occurred. Therefore, in relation to the issue of fishermen's incomes, their problems with their livelihood, their work, to support their families, but also to pay for the insurance, tax and other obligations they have, it is clear that it does not solve any problems. The second series of actions is firstly positive, in that you discuss and see the articles of the regulation, which you can activate, but it is also in 'will'. You say: 'Compensation will be granted'. That is why the association of fishermen has drawn up a press release, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, denouncing the delays in the procedures and expressing the anxiety of fishermen who see their income collapsed. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You should therefore proceed to substantial measures to support these people's incomes and claim compensation from the International Oil Pollution Compensation Fund. I am speaking, for example, of the form, which each fish must submit, if he wants to be able to receive compensation. These people will have to go to lawyers and pay, because it is a very complicated process, which they cannot complete on their own. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, the Ministry must set up a special local office to help make group or even a large group recourse to this fund so that they can get their allowances more quickly, since this fund is in line with group applications in relation to individual requests and can even compensate within ten months. At the same time you must work with PPE, the only research organisation that can and has the know-how to do these studies. In fact, the EDUCATION in a press release last day, September 19, which I present in the Minutes, said that even the fish farms of the centre itself have been affected by the infection, from the tar collected at the points where water is pumped. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the real disaster that has occurred to these people is perceived. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, on this tragic situation, which has led to a loss of income, it is good to work with the Ministry of Labour - Mr Petropoulos was here earlier, and good luck has brought him at the same time as you answer the question - to see at last how the obligations of fishermen can be frozen. We cannot ask them for money, at the time that their income has been zeroed, and possibly some fixed costs have been incurred, which cannot be stopped. Minister, we must not look at the situation that the fishermen are going through today with an analgesia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd Rafina Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, our interest in coastal fishermen in particular in this area, I would say that it is a priority, because we have already informed the European Commission that we have an incident there and we will probably ask them for the activation of Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure, in cases of serious threat. Of course, if we do not have these figures from the PPE Group and our own, which we gather from the services to produce a dossier, we cannot. At this time, that is, we are in a process of waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u69	Is the pre-process done?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u70	That's what I want to tell you. So, one parameter is that the European Commission is definitely waiting for what we will send as a dossier, but this dossier will be very important for fishermen as well, as far as the claim from the International Fund is concerned. Because you realise that there will precede any claim from the International Fund because the European Commission will put this to us as a precondition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u71	Will an office be established?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u72	So in the context of the fish auction, we are already talking about setting up a permanent office with representation in any case of one of the coastal fishermen and one of our own Ministry. From that point on, we'll see how we open this working party. We were planning to move on with what we got from the PPE report. The co-legislative ministers have also been informed. These displacement of debts are not ours. You know them because you've served in space. So we wait that way too. However, I have told you from the outset that trade union representation is causing us a great deal of trouble, and that is why a committee has been set up on the part of the coastal fishermen, with whom we are discussing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u73	The application when are you waiting for her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u74	So I would tell you that when the EPP/ED procedure is completed, I will reply to you. Already on Monday, for example, we have scheduled a meeting at the Ministry of Rural Development with PPE. We're inconvenience, we're waiting. We may have results on Monday. But I can't tell you right now. We must all help, especially on a matter. You know that these aids presuppose - you, Mr Theochra, are better aware - the drafting of a dossier based on data and conditions. And there, as you can see, we'll have difficulties. So you, having a know-how on these issues, can help us so that we can haunt as best as possible the loss of income for these groups of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Movement and marketing of fresh and vulnerable agricultural products and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 4 October 2017 to discuss the draft law at a maximum of one to two meetings, depending on the evolution of the debate, united in principle, on articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u77	So the House unanimously agreed. Because I see that SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr. Karayannis, is not in the Chamber, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u79	Here, Mr Moraite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u80	We want to raise a matter for the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u81	What do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u82	As far as the amendments are concerned, it is a point of order. To tell us which amendments from the amendments already tabled will be accepted and whether others are to be tabled. If they are to be tabled, they will now be tabled, because it is common to table amendments at the last minute, surpriseing the parties and without the time available to consider the amendments. So the Minister will now tell us which he holds and will be accepted and what is to be submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u83	Minister, are you ready to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u84	Look, I told you that we would give from the point of view of the Ministry of Rural Development the amendments we intend to bring in the legislative improvements. We have also, of course, sent you the debate we have held in committee, but also some texts to which we have - I would say - mentioned the legislative improvements and the amendments that we will bring as the Ministry of Rural Development. The absence of two Ministers abroad has caused us a problem in the signatures and we have removed the amendments that the ministers concerned have had to sign and we will bring them to the next bill, which will deal with the trade union representation of farmers. Therefore, there is nothing more to be tabled by the Ministry in terms of both legislative improvements and amendments. It is now in the Secretariat-General, and in a short time, what we have decided. Two, three amendments calling for the signature of these ministers were simply removed. From there on we continue on the basis of what we have agreed. Of course, if the government decides at some point - I have told you from the outset - for reasons of urgency and urgency that it must bring an amendment, we are discussing this when this matter arises.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u85	Minister, is this amendment an addition to the great one? It's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u86	They've been removed. They're coming now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u87	Mrs Arabaji, when you want something, I would ask you to do so through the Bureau. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Karayannis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it begins today in plenary, after the positive figure that emerged almost unanimously from the fruitful debate in committees, the debate of a very important bill, which supports rural world and primary production, puts order on the market in terms of payment times and protects the Greek consumer. With this draft law, which consists of four chapters and the addition of an amendment, entitled ‘Staturing and marketing fresh and vulnerable agricultural products and other provisions’, years of issues are dealt with, which have to do with delays in the payments of fresh products, the Greekisations, modernisation of the country's institutional framework for the exploitation of farmed waters, agricultural cooperatives and other smaller issues, which will be developed in detail below. Chapter I of the draft law regulates issues relating to late payment in commercial transactions for fresh and vulnerable products, such as fresh meat, poultry, fish and green fish. The nature of these products and their small life cycle leave no room for long delays in the repayment of the relevant invoices. The retrospective invoicing by the producer in judicial proceedings of the misuse of payment terms - in any case it is difficult to prove - is not capable of preventing the problem. The delays in the payments of fresh agricultural products have dealt with the European Commission, which adopted Directive 7/2011. That Directive was incorporated into the provisions of Law No 4152/2013, but in practice it became inactive and ineffective, thereby continuing market malfunction and increasing the problem for producers. The delays in such payments have a negative impact on the producer as they affect its liquidity and cash flow, complicated its financial management and hamper its development. Naturally, the problem is becoming greater for small and medium-sized enterprises and their respective farms. From my twenty-five-year experience in the market and in the food sector I believe that a product with a life-long period of just a few days cannot be paid after a hundred and twenty days without calculating in this parameter the other ones agreed with the large sales points, which have to do with refunds, discounts, promotional actions, participation in brochures, tailor-made payments, etc. It is not possible to compete between the chains, which are located mainly in fresh and vulnerable products, to be transported with these suffocating and irresistible pressures and practices on the production basis. Excessive expansion of distribution costs as a key component of a product marketing mix and pressures on its pricing policy, in particular in the context of a crisis and liquidity problem, becomes a time bomb on the business foundations. Consider the dimension of the problem in micro-enterprises, particularly those selling fresh and vulnerable. Several European Union countries, such as France, Italy, Spain and Romania, with the incorporation of Directive 7/2011 have made significant reductions in the time of payment of fresh products and the imposition of fines for the non-application and compliance between the Contracting Parties. Romania, in particular, has established the shortest payment time throughout the European Union, which amounts to seven working hours. The above unfavourable data suggests that a special arrangement should be introduced with regard to the time-limit for payment of fresh and vulnerable foods, which is set at sixty days, with the explicit exception of the possibility of contractual overrun of the time of payment and with particular provision for administrative sanctions. The fines are initially imposed on the value of the invoice and relate to both parties. The aim of the proposed provisions is to restore a fair balance between producers and traders and eliminate undue delays in payments of all fresh and vulnerable products of the agri-food chain. Chapter II of this draft law regulates matters relating to compulsory labelling of milk, milk products and meat products. The mandatory labelling of milk products in milk and milk products is laid down. The equivalent will apply to the meat. This is a first, big step towards tackling the problem of Hellenism and a fair request from the country's livestock world is being met to break them down. The combination of origin markings and an integrated system for traceability from the stable to the national level that will monitor and control the balances of milk and meat will become a protection shield for the Greek farmer and the Greek consumer. We must not forget that the livestock sector is of particular importance to the rural economy, regional development and the country's productive reconstruction. It employs about five hundred thousand people, produces excellent quality products, many of them PDO, supports processing - five hundred cheese shops - it offers hundreds of jobs and gives life to the mountainous and disadvantaged areas of our country. Unfortunately, today our country is a deficit in most livestock species. We import 65% of cow's milk, 85% of beef, 65% of pork, and there has already been a problem in the poultry sector. These imports exceed 2.5 billion a year, with what this implies in the country's trade balance. At the same time, the occasional food crises, the agreements between the European Union and third countries and the current critical European livestock season do not allow for complacentness and inertia. It is necessary to adopt measures and policies both to improve the degree of self-sufficiency of the country and to protect Greek stockfarming and products produced, especially feta. This draft law meets the above requirements to a sufficient extent. In particular, compulsory labelling of milk origin includes the country of milking, the country of processing and the country of packaging. Depending on these three origins, the relevant marking will also be available. The indication of the particulars is lawful in Regulation 1169/2011 of the European Union. This is how the Greek consumer is protected against illegal Greekism, based on the income of farmers, creates competitive advantages in the production of branded high-priced food products and strengthens the national brand name of our dairy products on the world market. The corresponding regulation on meat achieves the creation of an integrated system for labelling and information for the consumer, with traceability rules at all stages of production and distribution, from slaughter to packaging, to ensure the correlation between the meat and the animal from which it comes. One factor which creates favourable conditions for the Greekisations - and this has also been pointed out at the hearing of the bodies - is the fact that we do not know exactly the number of farmed animals, especially cattle. The extension of traceability, the stricter controls, the electronic registration of the movement of animals, the establishment of slaughterhouses and customs, the control of milk and meat balances are an important procedure for protecting the Greek farmer and the consumer. For many years now, the European consumer has been able to have a simple scanner at the point of selling standardised meat to the supermarkets to have a full picture of the product he bought. The information was far beyond the self-registration of the country of rearing or origin of the animal and contained details that could be described as excessive. However, this traceability system with a simple barcode builds consumer confidence, supports the producer, helps healthy competition and hits instantly phenomena and practices of unfair competition, such as the problem of Hellenisation, a problem that has become cancer and must be removed for the following reasons. Firstly, it dismantles the national production base and the rural economy. Secondly, it supports and feeds up a large circuit of counterfeits and virtual invoices, of parachute economy and of black money. Thirdly, it creates corruption circuits in the public. Fourthly, it misleads the Greek consumer. Fifth, he's deducting revenues from the government. Sixthly, it suffocates milk prices, especially for sheep - and we see what is happening today - and Seventhly prevents development and, in the worst way, mortgages, the future of our PDO products, especially the feta. I take this opportunity to express once again my concern for our national product, especially after the agreements of the European Union with third countries. The decision of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in 2005 must be respected and be the basis for drawing up the new national feta strategy. We have a duty to protect our national heritage and tradition and to prove to the international community that there are neither acquired rights nor common uses of names as defined in the fine letters of agreements. The feta is a Greek! With regard to Chapter C, this is made up of the following regulations: The first concerns an amendment to provisions of Law 420/1970 (Article 10), where the proposed article attempts to modernise the institutional framework for the exploitation of farmed waters in the country. Since the 1990s there has been a significant reduction in both inland fishing and inland ports and lakes, mainly due to environmental pressure. The institutional framework must be reformed by the fact that these waters are productive systems, internationally protected, with traditional fishing holdings and exports of high biological and quality fish, with an export orientation such as Messologie egg and Ambrose shrimp. These arrangements are of an urgent nature because, in addition to the intensity of the problems, they relate to the possibility of taking advantage of the opportunities provided by operational programmes relating to intensive fishing, lagoon and inland waters. I refer to the measures of the 2014-2020 Operational Fisheries Programme. The objectives of this regulation are firstly to restructure the operation of employed fishing cooperatives, secondly to ensure the sustainability of fishing holdings and thirdly, to facilitate the implementation of the necessary interventions in public support facilities for public farms. The second regulation - Article 11 of Chapter III - concerns an amendment to provisions of Law 3955/2011. The proposed Article provides that the Directorate for Agricultural, Animal, Veterinary and Fisheries Controls of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is to be designated as the competent authority for the management of the register. The third regulation - Article 12 - concerns amendments to Law 2637/1998 on the number of members of the OPEKEPE Board. The fourth regulation - Article 13 - amends provisions of Law4384/2016 on cooperatives. The truth is that any debate on cooperatives is by definition sad, because of the known pathogens, which I have no intention of referring to. We must, however, all restore the lost value of cooperation in our country together and not let the same things happen for the social economy in Greece. We have a debt towards the rural world to open up all the files of shame, from the illegal financing of the ATE, until the break-up of European funds by cooperatives - seals and sinful administrations of cooperative organisations that left behind deer and dismantled the country's productive base. New and modern cooperatives, should operate on purely private economic criteria, introduce strict internal controls, protect the interests of members producers and the prestige of cooperation, in accordance with the principles of Manchester. The settlement of the register and Article 13, which amends the provisions of Law No.4384/2016 on the disposal of their assets through DIAGE, houses the cooperatives and retains their assets necessary for the productive reconstruction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute and a half. The regional representation is fully compatible with the current juncture and the management of resources from the 2014-2020 ESDP, from the regions and finds a positive response from the cooperative space. The proposed amendment - Addendum regulates editorial issues of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on vocational training for candidates for meat-and-breeding, by continuing until 2018 the programme for the collection of dead animals, with the conditions for retail sale of agricultural products, by maintaining the water-growing activity in inland waters, lakes, rivers, lakes, wildlife shelters, by extending the competence of ELGO - DIMITRA to control the market for animal products for the ‘ARTEMIS’ system, with the possibility that Benakio and the EFET may participate in research programmes of the General Secretariat for Research and Technology, by implementing recommendations, mentioned in the OECD toolbox, by separating purchases of conventional and organic farming producers. To conclude, let me point out that the rural world, and especially young farmers, stand helpless in the country's great effort to reconstruct production, with the production of branded high-priced food and quality products that can be worthy of the international market. I urge you all to vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr Karayannis. Mr Fotini Arabatzis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that for today's bill we are discussing in plenary, you have the necessary parliamentary majority in order to vote for it and that the Independent Greeks will not bring you back to your situation the day before yesterday. After all, from now on, we should keep asking you this question in each bill, since your Government and your majority in Parliament are now seriously injured not only by your government partner, but also by the SYRIZA Members themselves, since four have not been dying in the orders and decisions of your party and government. Of course, apart from your four MPs, you were turned back and all the Members of the Independent Greeks, with the exception of Mr Zouraris, after having voted against the contested article 3 of a bill that you described as emblematic. So your famous government stability, the famous strength of fifty-three Members, we all understand that it is going for a walk now. The day before yesterday seems to be the beginning of the end for your Government, as everyone understands that without the votes of the River we would have the following paradox: the government will vote for a law at first and will not finally be able to vote for its articles. You have attempted to set up a well-built trap in Anti-Population in order to bring it - as you would, of course - into a difficult position, but you have finally fallen into the pit you have been digging yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to plenary today to finally discuss a bill - the second series - of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, almost three years after the works and days of SYRIZA - ANEL, almost three years after the longest-lived, perhaps Minister of Government SYRIZA - ANEL.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u91	You're not saying it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u92	We are going to discuss a bill very advertised, a bill which has reached the committee for five months since the conclusion of the consultation, a consultation which you did not seem to be taking very seriously, since the final draft law is far from being the case, Minister, from the original text. You wouldn't call this a consistent piece of legislation, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Of course, speaking of consistency, I cannot help talking about your commitments, Minister, which you have moved to correct me, that I do not know how to measure, the following: in the committee on 3 October - I read specifically - you committed that by the next Monday, that is to say, the day before yesterday, we will have the possibility - to have all the legislative improvements that you have announced and at the same time the amendments concerning the Ministry. We regretted, of course, Mr Minister, that the legislative improvements - like the ones you committed to us and the institutions - never came to this House and we only received one mammoth amendment. Is this an amendment, Minister? Because it wasn't understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u93	Mr Colleagues, I think that in my position at the beginning of the procedure, I have explained what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u94	It wasn't understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u95	If you didn't realize, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u96	The other Members did not understand that. I'm asking this simple question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u97	I'm sorry if you don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u98	No one understood it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u99	Is this a mammoth amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u100	I was clear. There is no way that there will be an amendment in addition to that which you have taken in your hands. I told you that there were just two - three ministers and three amendments - so as not to do other things now among us - they will not go in, because the ministers are absent abroad. They're going into the next bill, which the Ministry of Rural Development has already completed, and it's about...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u101	That's not what Mrs. Arabaji asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u102	I ask, Minister, this is the amendment - addendum, is it true?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u103	That's not what Mrs. Arabaji asked. But what you're saying is understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u104	It's understandable. Secondly, as far as legislative improvements are concerned, I have already announced that legislative improvements will be made, that there will be no...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u105	We're asking ourselves another
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u106	Well, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u107	Okay. Keep going, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u108	Legislative improvements, in order to restore things in their classroom, ladies and gentlemen, have been announced by the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u109	Can I interrupt you? Legislative improvements are the ones I told you about. He's already here. You get them and when you get up to speed, then I'll let you know in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u110	To be distributed, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u111	However, we have discussed these since the second reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u112	To be distributed, Minister, because you told us that we would have them on Monday afternoon in the official text in the official draft law. Well, this amendment is coming, which, even now, I have not understood whether or not it is a matter of urgency, of course, but a matter of timing, which demonstrates on the one hand the curiosity, the genography of your legislation, on the other hand, of course, the debasement to the legislative initiative. This disgrace, of course, reaches the limits of the parliamentary smuggling, since you are trying to trap the Opposition in relation to what it will finally be voting on, knowing very well our prudent attitude to every legislative provision, stirring up in the same article in the bill - much more than in the one and only article of a multimodalism - provisions that are positive, but also manifestly outrageous. Since, in any case, you have complimented the world of primary production with policies of wild taxation, the evacuation of insurance contributions, the gigantic cost of producing and draining any financial perspective provided by the Rural Development Programme, for which it made many references yesterday, as a magical picture of the Prime Minister from Larissa, you come to deceive the world of primary production by serving a firstly positive legislative initiative, which, however, looks like an empty and legislatively inapplicable shirt. The main theme of the bill is the obligation to pay producers from traders within sixty days for fresh and vulnerable products and issues, of course, of the origin marking of milk and meat. There is no doubt - we have said so since the first meeting - that this is, in principle, positive arrangements. With individual provisions, however, the draft law creates distortions, while lack of structures and forecasts makes it practically inapplicable. Payment of trade for fresh and vulnerable products in sixty days is in the right direction, as it is also linked, of course, to the life expectancy of products. It is also a tightening up of the existing Community directive that was ratified by the 2013 Act and provided for repayment in sixty days, unless the parties otherwise defined. Of course, the term abusively used has actually led to its being abolished. In order to have an effect, however, this arrangement must concern all parties involved in the production, processing and marketing chain, otherwise there are market distortions in favour of one and the other sectors. At first reading, we ask, and of course we ask, that the bodies which attended the hearing should, if, in the regulatory framework of the law, Article 1 (b) and the concept of 'traders', be subject to retailers, otherwise supermarkets. With the great deal you have confessed, Minister, that it falls. You told us that it was expressly mentioned in the explanatory statement. Of course, this is what you know that it does not cover the legislative text. We are still waiting for an explicit legislative improvement, which you promised at the last meeting of the committee. Likewise, producers who are entitled to repayment in sixty days and the first processors, for example cheesemakers, should be included. The inclusion of the first processor in the concept of a producer is an income support for farmers. Because, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, milk, for example, is not sold all fresh. If the first processor does not have the benefit of paying from the supermarket likewise in sixty days, he will finally press the producer for a lower price on the raw material. If the circuit of the production, commercial, manufacturing chain is not closed, it cannot be regulated for the benefit of the producers. That is why the need to incorporate the cheese products in the list for example 1, which you also committed to bring, is imperative. Otherwise, an entire sector, which numbers about five hundred small cheese houses, is in an unfavourable position, having to pay the raw material in sixty days and be paid in uncertain time. Of course, Mr Minister, you said at the second meeting that you were adding milk pasteurised, feta cheese, yogurt, leaving the issue of meats and the time for the payment of feta. In closing the referral to Article 1, I have heard what the President of BSE said about the definition of the product for fresh and vulnerable products, that it is not related to the definition given by the Code of Food and Drinks, and that it should, where appropriate, be extended, as laid down in the relevant code. With regard to Article 2, it should be clarified whether and whether the implementation of the law will affect the existing agreements on contractual agriculture and the new ones. It should also be added that any agreement between the parties which is contrary to the provisions of the preceding subparagraph shall be considered void, unless it is in the interest of the producer who, according to the ratio legis, is the protection of that legislation. I am referring, of course, to a more favourable regime of sixty days, which may be advance payments and repayment within sixty days. With regard to Article 3, it is the producer's obligation, and even for a fine, to notify electronically to the competent authority of the sales documents, etc. This creates additional administrative burdens and costs for the producer. It should also be clarified that the check referred to as a payment method will also be sixty days. Most importantly, however, the application of Article 3 - and so the law - becomes unconscious, because the competent authority is, as far as we know, subordinated. There are few employees under five. Such a control work is absolutely impossible to implement, even if the competent authority has more staff. Secondly, banks cannot be implied to form part of the system's obligability. In addition, the banks, which are supposed to be responsible for cross-checking and auditing under paragraph 3, with a memorandum, Minister, shall speak of conflict and contradiction of regulation, proposing their exclusion from this paragraph. It says the Banking Union finds that it finds a weakness and contradiction in Article 3(1) and in paragraph 3, since the transaction is carried out in cash and therefore it is not compulsory for the bank to be involved up to EUR 1,500, it is not possible only to part of the transactions and outstanding invoices to be investigated through banks. In their view, a timely payment check should be carried out by direct information to the competent authority without their mediation. We are therefore coming to what we have said since the beginning. Since the banks declare reluctant and reluctant, what will be the supervisory authority to ensure the implementation of the law? Let us go to Article 5 and to compulsory labelling of milk products. The Government introduces the obligation to indicate the country of origin of the milk in three stages: negligence, processing, packaging. This, of course, creates a differentiated advantage for the Greek dairy industries, which use Greek milk and is undoubtedly a regulation in the positive direction. We must of course note, Minister, that the issues of compulsory labelling on the milk market also concern other Member States. The French authorities first notified the European Commission of the draft law on compulsory indication of origin of milk. Italy, Portugal, Lithuania and recently Spain followed. The European Commission has evaluated this positively in the light of the general principle and provisions and has given France a limited period of time of two years. As you know, the draft law you enter is a copy of the French law. It is understandable, Minister, that since the European Commission has allowed milk to be registered in other countries, it should also be given to our country reasonably. Therefore, any references to the Committee on Leventis Fights at European Union level, I think, Minister, that they are superfluous. Of course, at the same time that with paragraph 1 you defend the Greekness of milk, with paragraphs 3 and 4 you create unfair competition in domestic enterprises in relation to foreigners. This is because while you obligate Greeks to register from outside the European Union when one of the three stages of production are from outside the European Union, for example milk from Skopje, which is processed and packed in Greece, domestic industries will have the obligation to write in the box 'origin from outside the European Union', at the same time as under the mutual recognition clause of Article 7 foreign companies, which are handling their dairy products in Greece, will not have the same obligation. And I ask: who are you protecting, Minister? Domestic corporations or foreign companies? To the benefit of what is the relevant arrangement? We're coming to Article 8. Here really the ingenuity of your Government to present the black white and seaweed for our silk ribbons exceeds. Under the assumption of evaluation of services, you are actually hiding that the draft law has been in force for two years - what it gave you, in other words, in the thirty months, the European Commission - as a transitional stage. In other words, you hide the implementation of the committee's draft law, which is supposed to be assessed by the Ministry's services. We're coming to Article 9. Madam President, can I use my dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u113	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. Not all of them. I'll use 20 minutes. In the mandatory labelling of origin in meat we recall that this labelling is an initiative that has been in existence and is active since February 2012, according to which the shops with the known ‘ARTEMIS’ system had the obligation to register the country of origin in the weighing machines. You extended this control to the cash machines as well. You are continuing a ready-made legislative initiative that is in the right direction. It is necessary, however, to have an effect, but it is necessary to carry out checks. Traceability should be made at the source. Checks at slaughterhouses, “ARTEMIS” system and to be completed before meat reaches the weighing machine and cash machine. There is, Minister, the register of production units for meat production. There is the possibility of controlling large and limited numbers - and therefore easy and costly - meat wholesalers who indicate what they are selling and what origins are of the meat producers. The Panhellenia, in fact, complained that in the legislation under consultation, control began from the source and suddenly this bill only ended in the final stage. As regards the last subparagraph of the first paragraph of the first paragraph on so-called Greek breeding cattle over five months - and you promised it as a legislative improvement - the word 'can' should be stated instead of 'the breeding countries', the words 'Greek breeding for over five months' and the reference to the country of birth should be deleted. I move quickly with Article 10 and go to paragraph 7. The possibility of OTAs, Minister, to lease fish-farming waters without auction to the fishing partnerships of an administrative region directly entrusted is an exception to public procurement and an infringement of the concept of clarity. They should be auctioned and - we agree - a preference factor in fisheries cooperatives. After all, the New Democracy supports long-term leases with small rents for the sake of biodiversity, for the sake of the fisheries cooperatives themselves, which are sure and quiet, they will be able to properly exploit the lagoon for the sake of the consumer. We come to Article 12 for the reduction of the members of the OPEKEPE Management Board from eleven to nine. We have no objections to that. According to the report from the General Accounting Office of the State, 9,600 euros are also saved. Let's go to Article 13 now. Here, in fact, the government's effort to monitor the trade union representation of cooperative organisations, both at regional and at national level. If we link this article to the draft law on agricultural trade, we will see - and in fact paragraph 1 - that there is an absolute power for the FDI, which is even a premium of EUR 180,000 from the national budget, to have all the commentary cooperative property that is in liquidation, in due course, without criteria and without transparency. We are, for our part, reconstructing our position that we are calling for the distribution of the schooling cooperative property by auctioning by the best cooperatives, by the most experienced, of those who have the guarantees. Because I talked about circumvention of the initiative, I really wonder: Why are the provisions on the DIAGER in two articles, on the 13th that you put it in and on the 14th? We're coming down to the drop...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u115	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u116	Mr Colleague, she had three minutes of the dialogue and she wants to take time from her denology. What's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u117	We do not have, Madam President, but we have to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u118	I've already taken two minutes, Mr. Colleague, because I had fifteen and three minutes that interrupted me, eighteen. So I've got two minutes already from my dentistry, so while I'm down there, I'm gonna get second. So for the reduction of the members of the ELGA Board from nine to seven linked to the regime for the clearance of PASEGAS, did you manage, Minister, for the first time in time - and I see no objection from colleagues in the Coupling - to remove from the representation of the ELGA board, who? His most valuable donors. In other words, they will be the only ones who have no say and no representation. And because you say that you are linking it to the abolition of the PASPEGES, the New Democracy's proposal was clear and certain from the outset. One of the new PASPEGES and one of the SASOE. It must therefore remain clear about the labelling, which we have already done. We come to Article 16 and the repealed provisions. You are abolishing the requirement of the participation of the President and Vice-President of the ELGA and OPEKEPE boards to establish a quorum, which is obviously linked to the failure of the register of government officials, from which presidents and Vice-Presidents are supposed to arise. [[At the point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] I would also like to say that in Annex 1 the term 'fish' should be mentioned as 'fishing and aquaculture products', because you exclude aquaculture products very important to the national economy, such as seabirds, seabirds and mussels. To close, I cannot help talking yesterday about the Prime Minister's speech and presence in Larissa, where we really saw a repetition of the distortion of reality and of the black - white - in relation to the Rural Development Programme and the so-called plan for structural and productive reconstruction. I mean, Minister, that the 3 billion, which the Prime Minister has said very strongly, should relate, not to notices, but to payments and projects in the real economy. You are only four points below the Community average, only 18%, and these take-ups concern absorptions of the previous programme, misappropriated liabilities that are "loaded" in the current programme and known voluntary policies. He had the courage, of course, the Prime Minister to talk about young farmers as well. Who? The Prime Minister, who, with your policies, has left three thousand young farmers out of programme, the Prime Minister, who abolished the age-long renewal of the rural development programme...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u119	It does not refer to the bill, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u120	I'll say what I'm judging, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u121	You've already spoken for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u122	You're trying to find a account. All you've found is, unfortunately, for you, a fairy tale that you don't sell. Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Will you indicate us what we're going to say? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u123	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u124	Mrs Arabatzis, however, you have, unfortunately, been left a minute and a half for your dentistry. I write two minutes so we don't count. I'll give the Minister the floor to make any legislative improvements. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u125	I do not want to interrupt the course of the debate, just what we have debated in committee, and they have been binding on the legislative improvements I put to you in the Minutes and will be distributed to you. If there are questions or if there are any questions, I shall refer to issues which are relevant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u126	I would ask that they be distributed to my fellow Members too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u127	We did not ask a bad question, Mr Minister, that was a useful question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u128	This is a bill, which is really a station for the rural area and does not go into any other kind of procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Jellock from the Democratic Association has the floor for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Madam President. I see, however, that, beyond 15 minutes, we are talking as much as we want, and we are doing well. It's free to move. Minister, on the occasion of the topical questions that have been raised earlier, I will begin with the development conference in Larissa, a conference which was a public relations and a state of affairs, particularly in the agricultural sector. As long as they were looking after you ten degrees of MATs to make this dialogue, you will unfortunately not escape for you from the outcry and the fierceness of the rural world. I have told you on several occasions that the policies that you have implemented in these almost three years of your government are the disastrous roundup for agricultural production and agricultural income. And because lately we have heard a lot about sofa farmers and you have to explain what you mean by that, I will tell you that your policies lead the farmer there. Because no farmer, who is going to grow up, grow his fields, with your tax-supporting logic and the tax-fixing policy that you have imposed on agricultural income, is not in any interest to cultivate. They will all leave their fields in set-aside, resulting in a reduction in agricultural production and what that means. Even at the last minute, change your watch. As for the Rural Development Programme, much has been said about its absorption. But you say something else now, perhaps to prevent the possibility - as you see - of your failure in the negotiations on the new Rural Development Programme, which starts in 2020 and for which you will enter into negotiations a little bit. I hear you say on several occasions that: 'You know, Europeans get less. They take about 26 euros the acre. And this is where we get a lot. We get around 52 euros, 53 euros the acre, as Greek farmers." I would remind you that these agreements have been reached by the PASOK governments over time and that money you are managing today. You say that "You know it's Brexit now and probably the funds will be reduced. They will not be these 20 billion euros in 2020, which in the seventeenth year Greek farmers received EUR 14 billion." Look at you, Minister, failure agreement, as you did with feta, do not bring for the Rural Development Programme the negotiations that you are now doing. And then when these negotiations were taking place, we had an enlargement of the European Community with four additional Member States. So you cannot prejudge the reduction of the funds for the new Rural Development Programme. And I'll come now and then, because there's a lot of talk about how many legislation you bring. Look, in three years you'd better not bring anyone. Unfortunately, however, for you, other ministries bring such legislation, which is at the expense of agricultural income, either through increased taxation or reforming the increase in contributions that destroy agricultural production. This bill on the movement and marketing of susceptible products, the labelling of milk and meat is admittedly a bill trying to touch the bad texts on the marketing and payment of susceptible agricultural products and on the labelling of milk and meat. I say that your intention is to be able to give a solution today to a problem that exists over time. We have the experience of previous legislation, and we should have this together and made a bill, which can fulfil the purpose for which it comes to Parliament. In relation to the marketing and marketing of sensitive agricultural products, you are starting, Mr Minister, from who the trader is and how he is characterised as a trader of agricultural products. There was in 2011 a legislature for who is considered a trader, which procedure has to follow to register in the Register of Traders of Agricultural Products, which was established then, in order to monitor it by the Ministry of Agriculture. Yes, it did not apply to the absolute later today. You come here today and say that a dealer is whoever is written in the Register of Traders of Agricultural Products. After four, five years it hasn't been implemented. Who guarantees that it will now work? In fact, there is no guarantee against the trader. Is it not planned to have at least lodged guarantee letters to show who this trader is anyway coming out and gets millions of agricultural products? Does he have a fortune behind it? Does he even have warehouses? What's wrong with him? Nothing. In fact, you get out the last thing that existed, that this dealer, who says he takes the property of the Greek farmer to trade it - because you know the practice of open prices - to get a certificate from the Ministry of Rural Development that he is a trader of agricultural products. You're removing that, too. It's not gonna be written there too. I am a trader of agricultural products, who wants to come and say 'I am a trader of agricultural products'. What assurances do you have? How do you ensure the farmer? In other words, we're starting at the beginning of a mistake. And now we're going to the commercial transaction. When national legislation was adapted to the European Directive 7/2011 in 30 days, you are now coming and say sixty days. I'll understand. Sixty days due to the capital controls, your own capital control. But you're asking the producer, who is going to grow three months to produce tomatoes, wait another two months to get paid? Should there not be a product segregation so that some products can be paid in thirty days? Or make a commitment to the bill that once capital controls are abolished, the payment will be repaid in thirty days. Sixty days for many agricultural products, which will be re-productiond again, is a long time. We'll have to see. As far as sanctions are concerned, Minister, I agree with you on the amounts. But why would they need the approval of either the Chief to a certain amount or the high fines for the Minister's approval? These should operate automatedly. Whatever the law says. There is no need for approval either by the Head of the Ministry of Rural Development or by the Minister. Why are those windows coming in? We're talking about the farmer now. In order for this system to function, the farmer should immediately submit the invoice to the competent authority to be made electronically, then be transferred to the banks and the banks to check the millions of invoices to see what was not paid. Do you think that many farmers can do that? You know very well that cooperative schemes and producer groups have not yet worked. Those who are members of the cooperative farmers who will be present will be able to move forward and make this information electronically. So we have a problem here, and we see that this whole system is difficult to operate. That will not work, Minister, as much as you intend to do. We'll agree, I'll tell you right now. Something will get better in the whole process, but unfortunately a bureaucratic mess is being created. In fact, if the farmer says he does not deposit the invoice, he will have a 5% fine on the value of the invoice. In relation to the banks, are you sure the banks will carry out this project? Are you sure they can do so, watch those invoices how much they have been paid or not? I have told you, Minister, that it could be followed easier, with an electronic platform at the Ministry, where the farmer who has not been paid for the invoice and this invoice could follow the procedure to be followed, the procedure to be followed, the control, the penalties, the penalties to the trader and all the subsequent ones. Many questions in relation to whether this whole system will work for marketing and marketing, for paying time for vulnerable agricultural products. We must now go to an important issue in relation to labelling in milk. It is important, because it really concerns a sector in the agricultural sector, animal husbandry. Indeed, it is of direct interest to consumers as to how to ensure that they have quality milk. It is important for our national product, the feta, how there will be a guarantee of the movement and marketing of milk, the processing, standardisation and exports. Country of origin: Greece, when milk is milked, here it is processed and packed. Country of origin: the European Union, when one of these three is not in the country. The same industry, Greek industry, when taking part of the milk from the Greek producers, which, however, is not enough, either for the fresh, yoghurt or for the cheese, is imported. How will the consumer or the services that he used the Greek milk and where the imported milk stand out? Do we have organised electronic services, in balances, to monitor in every processor or major industry what is going on? Oh, no. So there is a problem here with regard to the implementation of this. I have stressed from the outset that what is clear about this is the country of milking. That's where everyone knows where that milk is from. Now we're confusing it here. We'll see. As far as the movement and marketing of meat is concerned, there are many temptations, because it is a great deal of profits, to the introduction of the traffickers, to imports and then to "baptize" through Greekizations the imported meat and to be shipped to the market. What are you doing here now? What do we change now? We have since 2008 a country of rearing through the weighing machine, place of slaughter and origin of meat. You have now decided that the Greekizations did not stop through the weighing machine, and you say that the problem now is along with the weighing machine to put the cash machine in place, which issues the tax proof of the meat. In other words, you focus and identify the Greekizations of the imported meat, of dubious quality compared to the Greek ones, only in the meat shop.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u131	And the consumer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u132	Yeah. And the consumer. Is that the problem? When the Greeks did not stop with the weighing machine, where all this was recorded, will they now stop with the cash machine? No, Minister. There should be intervention throughout the movement and movement of meat from the stable to the plate. That's it. All the way! What do we have here today? Cross-cutting services. We have the competent veterinary authority centrally controlled by the Department of Agriculture. We have the DAGs regionally, to do the checks, and we have the ELGO "DIMITRA" to monitor this movement through the "ARTEMIS" system. Did it come out so far with this system, as it was set up, to stop the Hellenism? Oh, no. Did you make any intervention in this system, as it was set up? Oh, no. So all that's going to be done is that we're going to have to charge the resettlement creams and cash machines to record these data - they've already been charged to have weighing machines - and we think that's how we solved the problem. On the other hand, I ask you: is meat the window. You have experience. Everyone enters the market and says the consumer: 'I want this part'. What identification does he have? Does he know? Recognition should prejudge the weighing machine and cash machine, which is not even provided for, i.e. the identification and quality of the meat by species. We don't touch that. In relation to the rest, I would like to say about the reduction in the administrative boards of OPEKEPE and ELGA, where you are getting from within farmers. Minister, you who are tired and say that you are overly sensitive today to the farmer, to agricultural production, to income, to income, should know that when the farmer is involved in the administrative boards, he is transferring the problems that he is experiencing every day and there, in connection with the technocrats, who are designated in the administrative boards, he can get the best result. I ask you: why are you taking the farmers off? What was your motive? Even the OPEKEPE is doing it. I say 'even to the OPECE', because that is not where farmers contribute, but the OPECE operates with the money from European funds, which is farmers and those. I'll tell you about the ELGA now. Not only does the state pay a euro for the operation of the ELGA, you are also getting farmers out of the inside. You owe them all the 70 million you took last year to repose them to the Bank of Greece and you haven't returned them yet. It's farmers' money. Why do you keep them and slow the compensation and can't even be estimated? We have also tabled an amendment to change the way the assessors are paid, because, on the other hand, there are reports from the President of the ELGA that the cost in the way they apply now is doubled for the estimates. What position are you taking? In relation to the notorious organization you want to set up, the DDIAGE, where you want to get the property, you tried this with the cooperatives law, Law No.4384/2016. You understood it and you took it back that it was unconstitutional. You are all saying today about the cooperative movement and you shed crocodile tears and you remember the cooperative principles, whether Manchester or the Vineyards that you said the other day in Larissa, the autonomy of the cooperative movement, the cooperative movement, and the possibility of deciding on the members, why do you remove it? Why are you taking the property of Greek farmers, who have been created for years, into a state agency that you will appoint the administrative councils and, indeed, open the door? You're not saying that this will only go to other cooperatives. You say that they will also go to other similar actions in relation to the rural area, i.e. private. We insist again that you get this back. You're saying that alongside the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u133	Mercy, really! Where did you see these? You mention even a paragraph that mentions these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u134	I'll tell you in writing. Yeah, he says it, unless you didn't read your bill. It doesn't explain otherwise to object now. I am glad that you have put it, because if you read it even now, you will get it back. I'm going to give you that in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u135	There's no dentistry. You've done everything, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u136	I shall conclude, Madam President. I would just like to say that we have tabled an amendment, Mr Minister, on the responsibility of the administrations of cooperative organisations, which have been liquidated or bankrupt. You know this is a topic of many years and it is stirring too much people. Commands to cooperative organisations and associations that did not do any management, but because the cooperative they took over had public debts, whether in the IKA or in the tax office, pledged them the properties, do not have insurance and tax information and cannot function, because their organisations have been wound up. While their organisations have assets that when the liquidation is completed will be multiple in relation to the obligations of the cooperatives, you continue to hold them hostage to all of them, instead of finally giving a solution. You don't have to hurry someone to say we're going to cover the lame. We are not talking about cases where there are criminal responsibilities or where the cooperatives are in the courts. We are talking about cases where there are no pending trials and criminal responsibilities. I would also ask the other parties to put themselves on this amendment tabled by the Democratic Independence, whether or not they agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Jelloney, you've been over your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u138	I shall conclude, Madam President. As far as the draft law is concerned, despite all the problems it has and I have said before, we will agree at first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u139	Before you complained about Mrs. Arabaji, who was in time. Now what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u140	Did I complain?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u141	Yes, of course! You were yelling to stop her. Please, gentlemen, you're managing time here! Mr. Shahinides has the floor from Golden Dawn for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. After everything we have seen in the last few days, we see disagreement. With this draft law you claim, Minister, that you are coming to protect the Greek producer, who produces soft and fresh products, setting a maximum period of time for the payment of production for the sixty days and the final consumer, through the introduction of the compulsory registration of the country of production for the products of animal origin, namely milk and meat. The above-mentioned objectives are clearly the desired objectives. However, the analysis of this draft law, the hearing of the bodies and the discussion in committee shows that this draft law is incomplete in many respects and above all does not solve the problem of the country's primary sector, which should be the main pillar of the future development of our national economy. In the very definitions of the draft law, the qualities of the producer and trader, or in combination with each other, are not only clear, which may, as we have mentioned in the committees, create confusion in terms of dealing with certain categories of professionals. For example, agricultural cooperatives will sometimes be treated as producers and sometimes as traders. The definition of the maximum repayment period of a producer from the trader on sixty days after the issue of the invoice is certainly favoured by several producers who have so far waited for months to repay the goods they supplied to the traders. However, it is also a kind of injustice - and we would say - for small producers, who usually grow short-term products, such as tomatoes - we have referred to them and to the committee - who, while awaiting the harvesting of their products in a very short period of time, of the order of two to five months, will have to wait for their repayment in another two months, with all that implies for liquidity. Nor can we understand the sixty-day limit, when in many countries of the European Union there has already been a narrower margin of time for producers to repay. We will tell you that in Italy, Spain, France and Belgium, payment within 30 days applies to sensitive products. In our opinion, the legislative framework for the payment of the products produced must also be tightened up, but not only for processors and traders, but also for the final commercial recipients, that is to say retailers and, above all, for the large supermarket chains, which we all know are paying in times that, unfortunately, touch the hundred and twenty days and in some cases reach up to one year in the cheques. Otherwise, it will continue to move this delay through traders and brokers to producers, whatever laws you may vote on. Of course, for us, for the People's Association - Golden Dawn, the correct solution would be the complete and complete elimination of the phenomena of late payment and shameful traders and intermediaries so as to benefit the consumer and producer through direct supply of the entire market through local rural cooperatives. The producer will thus benefit, since it will be paid in time and at the price that will ensure a decent income, but also for the consumer because of lower prices in products, as the production price and final consumption price will be closed. This draft law obliges the producer to produce electronic data to the competent authority so that it can be repaid for its production. This information includes electronic copies of invoices, cheques, documents and others. The competent authority will carry out checks on compliance with the provisions of the law, send these electronic data to the respective banks for a branch payment check, the banks will then send to the competent authority a list of the amounts that have not been repaid, and the bank's confidentiality is not in force in such transactions in order to allow for cross-checking. In addition, a Joint Ministerial Decision will lay down detailed rules on the procedure for the reimbursement of invoices and cheques, as well as the amount of expenditure resulting from these checks. One question, however, Minister, which will certainly arise as to whether the producers - and we have said it in committee, we repeat it today - who have no knowledge of electronic system handling will be able to carry out the missions of the data in an electronic way, making it even more difficult for them to work uninterruptedly, or burden them with an additional exit for the management of these data by natural or legal persons who possess the knowledge of this process. Furthermore, with regard to the Joint Ministerial Decision, it is stated that details of the amount of expenditure resulting from the controls will be laid down, i.e. this translates into the fact that producers will incur those costs. At the same time, a gap that arises - and here you must pay too much attention, Minister - is that in the case of transactions in cash up to EUR 1500 the producer will not be guaranteed because the invoices will not be sent to the banks and the institution. This means that producers should send the relevant documents directly to the competent authority with the abovementioned amounts. There is also provision for the submission of sanctions by the competent authority or Minister of State to the offenders, in other words 30% of the value of the invoice to traders - and for the negligence of the submission of the information to the competent authority, i.e. 5% of the value of the invoice for producers. For traders, it is foreseen that, after three continuous infringements, they will be deleted for one year from the single register and will not be allowed to be marketed in that period, otherwise a fine of EUR 100,000 will be imposed on them. This is where the question arises, mainly from the fact that sanctions may be imposed by the Minister himself: How will you ensure that the competent authority is incompetent and that corruption is not phenomena covering the traders? As regards the provisions on compulsory labelling of origin in milk, it is stated that the labelling of milk and milk as a ingredient in milk products is mandatory. It is compulsory to indicate the country of aggregation, the country of processing, the country of packaging, unless all three are made in one country, so the country of origin will simply be indicated. If the three phases have taken place in more than one country within the European Union, then it will be stated that milk is from the European Union. Otherwise, they are from outside the European Union. Here we have heard from previous rapporteurs that all this is happening because of the Greek milk quota imposed by the European Union. Mr Minister, in this part you must claim an even greater quota, because some years ago Greece was self-sufficient in both milk and beef and pig meat. These should be corrected. But here, the provision itself does itself, and it certainly does not protect the consumer, because the entries 'origin: European Union' and 'origin: outside the European Union' are completely unclear and do not contribute to what you are supposed to say because the countries of the European Union are many and in every case there are different conditions of milking, processing and packaging, with what this means for the quality of milk, positive or negative. Also, on this basis and domestic milk can be labelled as ‘origin: European Union’, without the consumer knowing whether the milk is Greek or, for example, from Romania or from Bulgaria. If we want to inform the consumer properly, then there should be a separate indication of milking, processing and packaging for all countries, regardless of whether they are within or outside the European Union. Here - we have also pointed this out to the committees - what you have to give a very large basis is the size of the font - which should be legislated - to be used for the entries on the products. If the font of the indication of a country of origin or what each product contains is number 8, it is letters which you cannot read with a magnifying lens. There must also be this provision. We also have to note that the latter will contribute, even indirectly, to strengthening the domestic production of dairy products, since consumers who want to buy Greek products will turn to those that bear the relevant indication, and this will, of course, be prevented by intensive controls, for example, by the ever-increasing Greek companies that are working in Bulgaria and manufacturing or packaging and selling dairy products in Greece as Greek. We also consider the penalties provided for companies which infringe the provisions as a result of fines of up to EUR 500 and up to EUR 30,000 in the mutual recognition clause which stipulates that milk products referred to in paragraph 2, which are lawfully produced or marketed in another Member State - Member State of the European Union or in a third country are not covered by the provisions of Articles 5 and 6. This clause is clear and extremely problematic because it makes it easier to import and market dairy products from other countries and, in any case, increasing suffocating competition with Greek products. Why do you legislate on the indication of origin for milk products when, in this clause, you are undoing exactly the same content and substance of the provisions you are supposed to introduce? This is obviously linked to milk and meat production. It is sad to import milk and meat from other countries, and we could be self-sufficient in both areas, as I said before. You also designate the Department of Animal Infrastructure and Processing of Animal Products of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food as a competent department to assess the effectiveness of those provisions and to submit proposals to the relevant Minister. But you say nothing about the adequate staffing of this agency and whether it will be able to meet these obligations, Minister. As far as meat is concerned, where there is a duty on the labelling of originating products, you are confined to making the retailers compulsory, the labelling of information on the origin - origin and the weight of the meat sold - which should be recorded in the documents issued through the electronic data-processing mechanism. From these documents from the tax electronic mechanism come easily and by simple checks the weight and value of the meat. The evidence of origin, however, that traceability cannot be checked, Minister. We consider these provisions to be problematic. There should be a declared marking of origin, slaughter and packaging combined with strict control by the State mechanism, so that domestic production can be effectively strengthened. Otherwise, the "Greekisations" - within introductory terms the word - will continue indefinitely. In order to ensure traceability of meat, there should be a strict scheme for the protection of domestic breeds, for annual continuous recording and monitoring at all stages from rearing, slaughter to the slaughterhouse. The other provisions of the bill, amending the provisions of Law 420/1970, are redefined as the legislative framework for the exploitation of farm water. Provision is made for the provision of services of fishing tourism and crafts activities in rented fish-farmers' waters. Fishing services shall be allowed to rent within six months of non-farm public farms. The renting of farmed waters to fisheries cooperatives pass through the public to local authorities, without auction and by direct delegation, with a lease duration of five to ten years. The value of the wage production attributable to well-established institutions or to actions of social solidarity shall not be taxed. The compulsory payment of 5% of the value of daily fished wage production is abolished in favour of the public. Finally, a Committee on the Control of Rented Water Fishermen is set up by decision of the Regional Director. Here we have to tell you, Minister, that the exploitation of fishermen's waters should remain in the hands of the public and in such a way as to contribute to the development of the national economy. Direct awards and no auctions are certainly problematic because of 'days' service phenomena mainly. In addition, it is not clear what the legislature means by 'good foundations and actions of social solidarity'. Evidently, some of your NGOs who have played their well-known role in recent years in our country could also be included in this context. Also, if you want to support fishing, why are you paying 10% to the free professional fishermen? By amending the provisions of Law 2637/1998 you are reducing from thirteen to nine the number of members of the Board of Directors of OPEKEPE. It is not specified in the explanatory statement why this reduction is being made. For you, who are allegedly tired of democracy, does not this reduce representation in democracy? Also, in what sense are the President, the Vice-Presidents, the Director-General of this Service appointed by the Minister? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. Further, by amending the relevant law of L.4384/2016, provisions relating to the establishment, operation, conversion, etc. are amended. the Federal and Confederacy agricultural cooperatives. The agricultural cooperatives resulting from the conversion of agricultural partnerships shall be exempted from the payment of each tax. It is also financed by a joint ministerial decision from the state budget with the sum of 180,000 euros, the Real Equivalent Management Agency, the well-known DIAGI, to cover the costs of starting up. This amount will be reimbursable to the State within seven years of its payment. You say that you want to strengthen with this agricultural cooperatives and the FOD. However, this is only indirect support for farmers participating in agricultural cooperatives. Why don't you help the producers themselves? We think it would be more effective to develop the real primary production sector. In a subsequent article, it is laid down that a joint Ministerial Decision lays down detailed and procedural matters for the payment of fees for evaluators, establishment of young farmers, members of advisory committees and monitoring committees for long-term and other obligations. The fines are increased from 5,000 to 15,000 in inspection stations for equipment, for agricultural medicines that do not comply with the procedures I have mentioned. It shall cease the operation of a retail price monitoring centre for pesticides, reduced from nine to seven the number of members of the ELGA Board of Directors and extended until 29 August 2018 the deadline for adapting to the provisions of L.4282/2014 of aquaculture units that were proven on 29-8-2014 without authorisation for establishment and operation. Article 14 provides that camping costs for children of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food are to be paid by the Agricultural and Animal Health Fund, since, Minister, the Ministry's camps are not operational and are not able to offer hospitality for reasons not due to them. Free properties under the management of the Ministry of Rural Development may also be granted. Article 14 refers to camps in the Sunion region, where, in the last three years, refugees have been staying against you - illegal immigrants, against us - of Kurdish origin. The Greek people cannot be charged with some of the costs which must be borne by children of the Ministry of Rural Development to go to a camp. Like you did, take them. Since your Ministry's employees did not react to the hospitality - as you did - of illegal immigrants, to pay from their pockets to take the children to other camps. In this context, although positive provisions such as remuneration payments are also included, the whole of the provisions will not agree on us. Is it not, Minister, that the Retail Sales Observatory I mentioned before is stopped to free the multinational companies on the Greek market at the expense of Greek pesticides? Also, for years now, the camps I mentioned have been used to host these refugees. As I said before, apart from the fact that this is clearly a racist attitude of the state towards the Greeks, we should point out once again that the damage will not be paid by the Greek taxpayer. It is clear that the Golden Dawn cannot consent to this. It is also unthinkable that the proposed provision does not provide for any representation of farmers and farmers in the composition of the ELGA board, whose insurance contributions constitute the income of the organisation and which constitute the reason for its existence. In addition, the annexes to the bill provide that Annexes I and II form an integral part of the draft law and are amended by a decision of the relevant Minister. In other words, the Minister is given absolute authority to abolish products covered by this draft law. In conclusion, we will point out that, as the Minister responsible mentioned, the delays in the payments of fresh products have also been addressed by the European Commission, which had adopted a directive on this, Directive 2011/7 of the European Union, which was incorporated into the provisions of n. 4152/2013, but in practice it became inactive and ineffective, thus continuing market malfunction and increasing the problem to producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Home Affairs, Economic and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Administrative Reconstruction, Rural Development and Food, Deputy Ministers for Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, and the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Energy submitted a draft law on 12-10-2017: ‘Amendment of Law 2939/2001 on the alternative management of packaging and other products, adaptation to Directive 2015/720/ European Union, regulation of issues of the Hellenic Retroactive Organisation and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Now, Mr. Nicholas Moraitis has the floor from the JRC Here, Mr Moraite, you have the floor for 15 minutes. Almost all of you have taken all of the seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Madam President. In a tragic situation there are poor medium-sized farmers, farmers, fishermen and fishermen all over the country. They are experiencing the effects and dead ends of the European Union's anti-agricultural and anti-animal policy, the World Trade Organisation which all governments decide and implement and support the Euro-Romanian parties. The consequences of these policies are particularly marked over time by the reduction of Greek livestock farming, the increase in imports of livestock products and the deficit in the agricultural trade balance, mainly resulting from the importation of livestock products, despite the fact that the livestock sector is of particular importance in the production of high nutritional value food and can contribute to the nutritional independence of our people. Our country has all the prerequisites for developing all the livestock and agricultural production sectors to meet modern food needs with safe and cheap food. However, such a prospect is crushed, strangled in the capitalist way of production that dominates and takes the lead in profit rather than in people's needs. In the face of this explosive situation, which is getting worse day after day, the government brings the bill for discussion. The aim of the bill is not to overthrow this situation, because it requires conflict and overthrowing with the common agricultural policy, which is impossible for you, because you have a "god" of your agricultural policy, the agreements between the imperialist organisations. The bill does not solve any of the acute problems, nor does it respond to the main demands of small- and medium-sized farmers, farmers and fishermen. The aim of the bill is to create false impressions, to disorientate poor farmers and farmers that something can change. This assessment results from the contents of the draft law that is distinguished from the management of the same anti-agricultural policy and the guidelines of the European Union. That is why it will not contribute to reducing the cost of production, limiting the hard exploitation of the dairy industries, the trade-industrials, the protection of small and medium-sized farmers, fishermen and farmers. Unless a front is created, conflict, social alliance of workers, farmers, microprofessionals, bankruptcy and the removal of small and medium-sized farmers is inevitable. Before entering the substance of the bill, we will reinstate the scandal of financing the PASPEGES, after the outcry of farmers who have remained unpaid for damages they have suffered for a long time, while the money from their sweat, from the carve of ELGA, has been wings and have ended up in the predators of PASPEGES, who have actually been paid for the invaluable services they have provided to all governments for undermining the struggles of the poor medium-sized farmer. Minister, after you left for five to six years, you now want to abolish a 2011 law. We say clearly that you want to ash in the eyes of farmers. You ask - it says - the retroactive force of the law on its abolition. This is what farmers say clearly; it is'strengthening with the engagement'. Mr Minister, of course, in this direction there is a complete congress with the other urban parties. When the JRC brought the matter to the Committee of the Parliament, parties had climbed the tiles. Today they didn't get the crumbs out, they made it a gargoy. The godfather! Now with the bill your intentions are seen from the first article. You are dismantling small- and medium-sized farmers, with monopolies for the processing of agricultural products, with the definition of 'production'. So what are you doing? You hide the class opponents of the poor medium-sized farmer, who are the large industrialists and the big businessmen. So you're putting together teammates who fight for their survival, with the mathematics, the dealers, the speculators, who steal the sweat. You put together exploiters and exploiters, the wolf guarding the sheep, as the farmers say. The tears of all of you are crocodiles for small farmers, who are actually slaughtered for the profits of monopolies. Make an individual case of each producer with an unbearable cost to pay off, letting him take the snake out of the hole alone. In order to be able to pay for the sixty days of the bill, he must send to the competent authority electronically the sales invoice for the products, the cheque and any other document relating to the sale. You force the producer, in short, to have the accountant's side in every transaction every day, to have the computer in the field, in the handkerchief. You are putting in this process and those who are poor farmers who belong to the special scheme and who are not obliged to keep books to date. One thing you are doing: you are aiming at taxing even self-consumption to save warm money that will fuel development laws, the tax exemptions of capital. We ask you, Minister, something we have also asked you in the Commission: do poor farmers have such a chance? Why not send those merchants who have the infrastructure, the accounts? You put in Article 2 the repayment of the invoices in sixty days. We tell you in ten days or even we tell you directly, on the tractor wheel, in the fold, where the crop is delivered. This is a request from the consistent agricultural movement. There's the possibility, there's over-profit. But your aim is not to solve the payment, which is indeed a serious problem, but you are pressing on it to settle competition between parts of the capital, such as between supermarkets and food processing industries and not just. As far as payment is concerned, not only do you make the producer's individual case, but you are threatening them even with fines from above. In addition to the blackmails that are received by dealers, the dairy industries, which act by cartel methods and blackmail, they are throwing prices, through all these extortion, now have your own extortion. So, what are you doing? Beat the samari to scare the donkey. That's what farmers say. They do not stop the sufferings of poor medium-sized farms here. As for the one who has to make the complaint and go to the courts, i.e. if it is not paid for, we have many cases of bankruptcy, bankruptcies, supermarkets buying agricultural livestock products. Farmers and farmers are facing the bankruptcy code, which you have voted for, to ensure banks, creditors, tax. If they do, workers, farmers and cooperatives will get no crumbs. Your class policy makes an eye. You're a government of capital. That is why you are reluctantly denying and not accepting the JRC's proposal for a law, so that the poor, medium-sized farmers, workers can be compensated first. Minister, you are surrounded in Greece and you have the courage to say that you are doing all this for farmers' liquidity. We say to you clearly: 'Friends don't only lend poor traders, in your opinion, but they also lend your state. You're doing this with the tax advance. If you want liquidity to be available in the field of agriculture, abolish the advance payment of the tax. But you continue to strive against poor medium-sized farms. In the articles of the draft law on the indication of origin of milk in the milk packaging, you are trying to gold out the pill, since you have all taken the third memorandum together, which you had there to adopt the recommendations of the OSCE toolbox by abolishing the limit of life in raw milk, changing the law on yoghurt and other measures, thus enabling processing monopolies to use cheaper imported raw materials. That is why we also have wind imports of cow's milk, milk powder and other products. Fly and fly that through all of this there will be programmes such as the Rural Development Programme that poor farmers will take advantage of, that it enables them to process their own products and that people's households will know what they eat. As long as your policy evaporates popular incomes and wants to buy the Greek certified product, they will not be able to reach it and are forced to go to cheap. Yesterday it was revealing ELSTAT that workers, people's families cannot consume basic goods, foods such as milk, meat, fish and other products. All this happens in a country that has all the potential to produce products to meet the food needs of our people. However, there are folk families who are undernourished. That's capitalism, barbaric and inhuman. But you also do the delicacy of these policies and you are surrounded by a region with your development conferences. Yesterday in Larissa, in a few days' time in Epirus, in a few more days' time in western Greece, in Patras. These conferences remind you of those infamous product baskets in the regions that others used some years ago. The farmers were bombing the farmers then that they would solve their problems with the spoon candy, with oregano, with lavender. These baskets, as they were then, were overflowed by mocking, as your development conferences are overflowing. Yesterday, in Larissa, you sowed the polluting expectations of the people, the poor medium-sized farms, to reap the big capital. Of course, you also suggested something else: With a lot of courage you told farmers that they should become modern entrepreneurs. Mr. Kokalis said that in Ieto-Acarnania. He went to an area where there is a violent eclipse of tobacco producers and farmers and told them that with beans and goats they will solve their problems. Your goal through these conferences is disorientation. You want to sow the reassurance, the expectation that something can change. You show the story of your fair development, that you have the recipe to humanize capitalism, that in this barbaric exploitation system everyone can win: industrialists and workers, monopolies and poor, small and medium-sized farms, micro-magazines, microprofessionals and large chains of shops and multinationals. Now, however, poor medium-sized farms have experience. It sees that all of this does not respond to the major problems it is experiencing, now that the debt nipple in their banks is drowning, their inability to pay even their insurance contributions, the ECA, the carpets of ELGA, HANPIA, the extremely expensive agricultural current, the expensive agricultural oil, with the degrading prices that traders and industrialists get. They have nothing to expect from your development conferences or your bill. On the other hand, because they will not be able to withstand competition, they will be in a worse position and they will be brought to a violent breakthrough. With this bill you proceed to new concessions on the monopolies. A characteristic of whom this bill serves is Article 10, which, in the name of modernising the Fisheries Code, you are giving fish-eating waters, lakes, rivers, sea coastal areas, lagoons, public farms, even sandy beaches. You are doing all of this, you say, to support collective plans for water management. In other words, you put as a leaf of figurative cooperatives and prepare the roast for the big chapter. You say that where there are no cooperatives, you assign water and infrastructure directly to individuals. We ask you: can the existing cooperatives cope? After all, this question has also been raised in the hearing of the bodies in their own cooperatives. Do they have the financial capacity? What's the status? Everyone along with one voice told us that they were being led to bankruptcy. After all, bankruptcy has accelerated and in the last three years almost with your own government. They really go from evil to worse. The JRC supports the fair demands of small and medium-sized farms, as created by the consistent agricultural movement in the blockages of the fight that are lower guaranteed prices, lower production costs, direct payment with harvest delivery, protection against wind imports that our country is surplus. However, in order to have such a policy, discipline is needed with regard to the regulations of the European Union, the agreements of the World Trade Organization, the agreements between imperialist organisations. In order to implement such an agricultural policy, which will be of benefit to the country, the people and which will end the sufferings of poor medium-sized farms, there is a need for massive dismantling of small and medium-sized farmers from the politicians and the parties that are throwing them apart. The JRC is addressing poor, medium-sized farms and telling it clearly, without rotation, that there are two ways of developing agricultural, livestock production and fishing production: one is the capitalist way of producing which has been implemented for years by all governments within the European Union. It has the well-known results for farmers, farmers, fishermen and people's consumption. The second route is the one proposed by the JRC, which raises the issue of central planning and the rural economy with key objectives to meet the current nutritional needs of our people with safe and good food, through the exploitation of all the country's productive potential, the guarantee of sustainable income for small and medium-sized farmers, the protection of public health, animal health, plant capital, environmental protection. Such a policy will be based on the productive cooperatives of the small and medium-sized farms, which have nothing to do with the abortions of the cooperatives that exist on your day, but also before. The producer cooperatives will solve the major structural problem of agricultural livestock production, the problem of the small fragmented lot, the small scattered livestock holdings. In the context of labour power, the people's economy, the productive cooperatives will be fully supported by the state. The production and movement of the most important agricultural supplies, machinery and the processing of agricultural products, will be carried out by state-owned enterprises so that they can reach cheap supplies to producer cooperatives and safe food for popular consumption. In such a direction we call on the poor farmers today to fight for relief measures, but with a view to overthrowing this policy, to create a perspective for another policy that will give a definitive solution to its suffering. We are voting against this bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Lazarides has the floor from the ANLEs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Opposition made a number of comments, while we are dealing with a bill for which criticisms of all actors were positive. In fact, some of the operators’ representatives said that, at last, a bill came, which will protect Greek products from Hellenism. But the opposition has once again chosen to make another criticism. In any case, the criticism of the appreciable nature of it is also the same. But he didn't apologize here. You know, we're talking about agriculture. The main lever of agricultural development was traditionally the Agricultural Bank. The Agricultural Bank closed down by these two parties, the New Democracy and the PASOK. None of them have been apologised until now. For the most part, if you remember a month ago, I said from the Step in plenary that in October the case of the Agricultural Bank and these two parties are trying to avoid and not to pay their debts to it. You know, they sold the Agricultural Bank to Piraeus Bank for 90 million, when these two parties would pay over 200 million to the Agricultural Bank. These were their debts. That is the definition of the scandal. Of course, this suggests that they did not intend to pay their debts and that they would once again ask the Greek people to pay for them. And they're asking for the Greek people to trust them! Do you know when she was sold? The agricultural bank sent them out of court when they voted for an amendment - then these two parties were ruling - with which the bank was unable to confiscate their subsidies. They have made subsidies incomprehensible. What they did was skeptical because they had previously mortgaged future grants in order to obtain loans. When the time came to pay, they came here, voted for an amendment and made the grants irresponsible. This is the definition of scandals. And they never felt the need to apologize for it. I repeat, they sold it, actually gave it over 90 million when it had to receive over 200 million of these two parties. Of course, the Vice-President of the New Democracy came out and said that her debt to the banks should be spared. And that's over 210 million. In other words, the Greek people must pay the 210 million. If that's possible! It goes on to say that, in order for democracy to function properly, there should be no problem with Civic Anti-Civilization. You know, that's a state-of-the-art concept. Identifying the functioning of democracy with a party is the definition of a status concept. Anyway, we should come to the bill. Not to blame, because it's a bill positive. It is a bill for which, in fact, all the bodies or, if you like, the vast majority of the bodies have been positive toward it. It is the result of a successful effort by this government, because for which we have been discussing today, other efforts have been made for some ten years. These are efforts which, however, were not fruitful and which came this government in 2016 and tabled a plan to the European Union, which, in any case, convinced the Member States of the European Union and approved this plan and in December 2016 we now received the final 'green' light. Thus, we have this bill, which safeguards Greek products and protects them against the great scourge of Hellenism. Before I come to the development of the bill, because I tabled an amendment, I would like to make a reference here to my colleagues and ask you to accept it. It is an amendment which supports these stray animals operators, subject to certain conditions. Because in the past these stray animals were out of plan, then the development of the plans, etc., were found to be close to residential areas. With this amendment I would ask that these specific existing animal protection facilities be limited to 50 metres in length, since they also have certain conditions provided for by the GMO. There's no GGD violation. We are talking, in other words, about one and a half meters of wall and, together with the rest of the fence, we reach three meters. We also have some other conditions and I would like, please, Mr Minister, to see it positively. I'm on my way to the bill. This draft law concerns the regulation of the market, namely the movement of fresh and vulnerable products, aiming to protect the interests of Greek farmers and consumers and to ensure the quality of Greek products in unfair competition practices. The fight against late payment in commercial transactions, particularly in the meat and meat products sectors, milk and milk products, is an extremely serious issue, but also a constant request, with a view to strengthening the proper functioning of the market and especially the small and medium-sized ones, where there are serious liquidity problems, due to late payments, particularly from the large supermarket chains. This bill is moving in the right direction as it creates new and favourable conditions for the development of quality domestic livestock and at the same time seems to have a positive effect on improving the position of the small farmer in the market for fresh agricultural products. We also note the creation of the framework for rationalisation of the agricultural market and consumer protection, and this is undoubtedly an important step in the fight against the phenomenon of Hellenisation and black movement in the rural area. The legislative framework expresses professionals, meets a consistent request and suppresses the concerns of Greek consumers for information on the origin of milk as the main ingredient of processed dairy food and the need to protect them through transparency and safer traceability. It defends the interests of the Greek dairy producers - farmers at a time when they are critical for their farming at European Union level, contributes to ensuring the quality of Greek milk and cheese products in the face of unfair competition practices and provides both consumers and producers with safe soil for the development of consumer and production practices, which in the medium term will ensure consumer confidence in Greek dairy products, while introducing control measures for the transparency of the market and the treatment of Greek raw production. In particular for meat, country-wide controls are provided for the application of the country-of-origin compulsory labelling of the country of origin in commercial documents and in all forms of labelling of the products of holdings which are transporting meat. The labelling of origin is information that should be made available to the consumer, since quality is closely linked to the origin, and it is therefore necessary to indicate the countries of origin at least of the country of melting, the flavouring, i.e. instead of the designation of origin ‘European Union’ or ‘non-European Union’. In addition, favourable provisions are introduced for producers following multiple delays in payments on the market. It makes it compulsory to repay producers from traders - wholesale and retailers - in sixty days and provides a 30% fine for the value of the transaction for the offenders, whereas a penalty is provided for in Article 4 and for the producer who does not denounce the incident, which is 5%, if the electronics are not transmitted, and the agreement between them is void. These measures will work positively and will stimulate economicly thousands of livestock farms, which have serious liquidity problems due to the high delays in payments. In fact, the possibility of withdrawing the bank secret is also allowed in order to determine whether the payment has been made in time. If the trader, in accordance with the provisions of the bill, is caught three times not paying in time, then he shall be deleted for one year from the Single Register of Agricultural Products Traders. In addition to the above, other issues such as the renting of farms in the farms of extensive farming by the public are dealt with in the bill. At this point in the bill, Mr Minister, we must take into account a special case, that of the free and coastal fishermen of the Messologo-Etoliki - Youth, in which they seek protection from possible extremism due to the advance change in the exploitation and exploitation of the lagoon. Protection in this sensitive area may occur exclusively by renting the fishermen's cooperatives of the relevant OTOs, but we would also like to add, mainly because of the volume of fishermen operating in the area - over five hundred professional fishermen - to enable everyone to participate in the composition of the cooperatives in question and to avoid the cases of direct awarding on purely income terms through production and proper control. We would like you to look at this issue and make amendments, in line with the suggestions made by the committees responsible for the drafting of the bill. Returning again to the bill, in a more general criticism, the bill enables livestock production to come out on a new basis, to get out of the carpet of the Greeks' Greeks and corruption circuits which afflict producers, harm the Greek public and mislead the consumer. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Independent Greeks support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr Lazarides, for the time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Following the strengthened Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part'. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational program "KOPESTRIA" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and three educational attendants from the 9th High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this draft law seeks to regulate important issues relating to primary production - agriculture, fisheries, livestock - a sector of maximum importance for every national economy and, of course, our own, which in Greece is a source of income of four hundred ninety thousand people - in 13.5% of the country's workforce - which, despite its great importance, has been upset for years by problems that no government has seriously solved. Despite the fact that there are certain provisions in this bill that go in the right direction, there are also negatively concealed points in the government's permanently friendly, smuggling practice that do not allow us to lift our reservations and vote in favour of it. We are almost certain that, at some point, the same government will bring new changes, which will try to fill in the gaps in this legislation, which are due to its regular practice of legislating in a rough and fragmented manner rather than trying to design and legislate in a comprehensive and coherent manner such an important matter. The Centro Association has shown many of its sensitivity to the issues of agricultural production. In fact, we have tabled concrete proposals and we support, as a key point in our policy, the achievement of national food sovereignty, which is a multi-level concept, which includes availability, access, use and stability. It is recognized as a universal public good. Let us now come to the essence of this bill. Directive 2011/7, although incorporated into the Greek legal order with Law No 4152/2013, remained to date a ‘written letter’. We appreciate, however, that the provisions of Chapter I - Articles 1 to 4 - would be in the right direction if they did not have the problems that I will analyse you at the moment. Who, after all, disagrees with the implementation of the European directive and improves the imbalances in the functioning of the market? This bill attempts to give key solutions to an extremely important issue. Exclusive payment deadline of sixty days, express exclusion of the possibility of contractual overrun of the time limit and of significant administrative penalties. The aim is to establish market rules to restore the balance and fair treatment of traders and producers. However, in order to produce results from these regulations in the draft law, they must not only be correct, but they must also be applied in general, and they must be explicitly applicable to all the sectors involved, all the producers, and the processing companies, which must become the subject of separate regulation, which we have repeatedly discussed in committees, the whole traders, and even retail chains and large supermarkets. Therefore, we still maintain that in Chapter I it is necessary to add processing enterprises as a separate category and in Annex 1 the addition of processed products and certain fresh and vulnerable agricultural products, such as apples, kiwi, grapes, asparagus, etc. As far as sanctions are concerned, we believe that these should be automated. It is inappropriate, of course, if small businesses and individual producers and farmers can meet the requirements of the bill, such as electronic invoice notification, or impose new burdens and burdens on labour, as well as fines. So we ask the Government to take special care of their familiarity and a smooth adaptation to the new data created by the digitalised fulfilment of their obligations. It is also of crucial importance to what extent and in what way and in what way the control mechanisms are able to comply with the proposed regulations, or they will simply be a wish, by increasing red tape even more and, ultimately, staying ineffective. We are now coming to Chapter B, to Articles 5 to 9, where we consider that the objective is better information and consumer protection for sensitive and critical products in the food chain, such as milk and meat. Despite all this positive, there is still a lack of an integrated approach to the issue. We therefore consider it necessary to improve the existing traceability system. The arrangements in this draft law should therefore include and cover the entire chain of the meat from producer to consumer, and in fact even at the same time. The authorisation for the handling of animals, for example, is still handwritten, and if electronic testing is done, it will be more effective and more effective. The indication of the country of origin of meat in the meat shop cash machine is a very positive measure, but it could apply to a greater extent, even for all focus areas. With regard to milk and its indication of origin, it is undoubtedly a regulation that will improve the competitiveness of Greek businesses. However, the labels must be clear, that is to say - we have also told the committees - the milking, processing, packaging and, in fact, clearly marked. If not indicated "harmful in Greece", "processed in Greece", "packed in Greece", it will hardly end the baptized product. Of course, at this point we had the assurance of the Minister that all of this was guaranteed. It is clear that we are aiming at dealing with the phenomenon of Hellenism and combating unfair competition in order to ensure the protection of domestic production and the Greek consumer. As regards Chapter C, on the legal framework for the exploitation of fishermen's waters, we must stress that it is important to get clear locations in. Farming systems are free fishermen and wage cooperatives. It should be pointed out and indicate which is the non-target area that the fishermen operate. The possibility for Ottas, instead of the State which is to date, to lease fish-farming waters - and indeed without auction - to fishing cooperatives in their own area by direct delegation does not find us in agreement. We are not opposed to the increase in Ottawa resources. However, for reasons of principle, we are opposed to direct awards because they are a derogation from the principles of transparency and free competition. We would accept a direct assignment on grounds of urgency, but due to extremely unforeseen situations, that is to say, exceptional facts, as laid down in national public procurement legislation. If a single fishing cooperative appears in the competition, let it be awarded, but not by direct delegation. We also do not understand what the purpose of setting up a further committee is, such as the Committee on Rented Water Control in the Regional Unit concerned. Of course, the creation of other committees is the government's dearest method of further increasing the public sector and the safest way of not giving a solution to the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is supposed to want to ensure the interests of farmers and farmers. It is therefore least unfortunate that these should not be represented as members in the boards of OPEKEPE and ELGA, when we want to address them seriously. We therefore believe that the important thing is not the number of members, but what members will be, so that there will be a more representative representation. As we have already stressed in the debate on the principle and in the article, we find it difficult to understand the advisability of replacing paragraph 12 of Article 27 of L.4384/2016 from the provision of Article 13 of this draft law. You are, in other words, heading towards the bypass of the General Assembly, which is the body which has to decide on the house and which is designed to establish and intercede the Foundation, which will manage the cooperative property, that is to say, farmers' money at the appropriate level. We also repeat, why are we paying an amount of EUR 180,000 to a new agency of dubious efficiency, which is supposed to operate as a public limited company on more privatised criteria? Let us not talk about the particularly privileged treatment of the DIAGE, which is granted free of charge to the public in order to serve its objectives of establishment and operation. We would remind you of the case of many promising agencies, which have ended up burdening the state budget, without results, except for satisfying close party interests. We hope that the case of the OLAF will disprove our concerns in this regard, which we are expressing here. Furthermore, I would like once again to refer to cooperatives. The cooperatives in Greece of small and medium-sized producers can ensure a fair price for the participating producers, the circumvention of intermediaries and the direct association of producer-consumer. To provide the consumer with a good quality product at a good price. To highlight the social responsibility of the businessman and the cooperative ideal. They can also revive the Greek region by offering jobs to young people who have an interest in primary production and thus contribute to decentralisation. We believe that the cooperatives, despite their problematic function, which, among other things, was caused by state intervention, are hopeful for the promotion of primary production, an area in which Greece has a specific advantage, on the one hand, in order to ensure the country's food adequacy, on the other hand, to promote the export of branded and quality agricultural products. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not even allowed in the fourth chapter to express our reservations to the extent that two articles of emblems have been added, regardless of the contents of the bill. The first relates to Article 18, that is to say in the transitional positions of heads, who once again demonstrate the government's proliferation in the promotion of the necessary reforms and the implementation of the law. Instead, it prefers to place positions of responsibility selectively with persons of the government's confidence. Let me not mention, ladies and gentlemen, the new premium for the newly created OSH on VAT. The Centro Association will vote'residences' in this bill and in the articles as they will be heard in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u149	Thank you. The last speaker has the floor, Mr. Amyras from the Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is - I would say - one of the favourite issues and clichés of anyone to some extent has a public reason to emphasise the capital importance of rural development in our country both in the field of production and trade. Therefore, this draft law would say that it follows from what we all want, that primary Greek production should be strengthened with an added advantage of the final product and that it would in fact better harmonise national law and what the competent authorities should do with European Union Directive 7 of 2011. Production of quality products and competing Greek agricultural products must be our objective. We see that the draft law here is trying to resolve several of the pathogens that the space faces and, above all, the delay in the repayment of invoices, producers and small and medium-sized processors from wholesalers and large chains of supermarkets. As the explanatory statement of the bill, already with the oldest law of 2013, v.4152, Greek legislation had been adapted to the European directive to combat this phenomenon of late payments, where, of course, the weak link is the small farmer, the small processor, while the powerful player is the chain of supermarkets and the wholesaler. However, despite the fact that some steps had been taken there in 2013, we did not see any spectacular changes in the field. I would therefore like to say that as many laws as we can vote, good or better, if they are not accompanied by an effective control mechanism, we will be at the same point as four years ago to incorporate the same directives and some predictions and not to have results. So here I would put a title 'Syphi I', because at some point I'm going to come to 'Syfo II'. So we welcome the repayment of the invoice or the shipping note within the sixty days. However, I would like to ask the Minister if we are sure that there is sufficient provision for an adequate control mechanism through the banks - which you will tell us and on what criteria the charges will be made and how - that the banks will do what has not been done so many years and stay at the corner and at the edge of the small Greek producers. I would also say that I expect the government and Mr Apostle to have similar legislative initiatives for the whole - and I would say - agricultural products, for which there are delays in the payment of producers. We all know that there are too many such accusations, particularly in the audit framework. As I mentioned at the meetings of our committee, I think it is a good thing that it is unnecessarily necessary to mark and ensure a source of milk, milk and meat at all stages of production. The interests of the Greek dairy producers and consumers must be defended and not only in Greece, but also abroad, because there is an export dimension. Also, one of the other clichés, which I remember very intensely and impressed, I would say, in collective memory, in Andreas Papandreou yet, is "No to the mediators". It's been so many years and we're still struggling to get middlemen out of the consumer and his relationship with the producer. It is a huge pathogen, which I hope will now take a first step towards tackling. Fewer intermediaries or no intermediaries means a better price for the consumer and clearly higher quality as a way of guaranteeing it. The sanctions provided for in Article 4 are very correct, but I would say that we needed a provision to apply proportionality to the value of the invoice so that we can punish the offender, but not eliminate him, eliminate him. Temporary deletion from the Single Register of Farm Products of the offender is a positive measure, as we see it positive. To come to the fishing farms, we have the amendment of the provisions of Law 420/1970, i.e. almost fifty years have passed and in this five-year period there has been no regulation of an area which should be privileged for the state, in other words, with regard to the results it produces. Fishing cooperatives clearly need aid, but first to be reorganised. Fishing sites must be clearly judged to the extent of their sustainability of how they will be attributed and to the intensity of fishing by those who exploit the waters, in particular the lakes, which constitute particularly sensitive ecosystems. And not forget the overfishing, the contamination of water and fish and, of course, the increase in taxation, the increase in the price of fuels which make up a difficult environment for fishermen. I'm going to disagree with the direct assignment to the cooperatives. There's the public procurement law. Why don't we follow him? If the measure is exceptional, then yes. However, we are not talking about an excellent measure here, but about the introduction of a rule. Therefore, for reasons of transparency and equality of access for fishermen on the ground, there should be no competition. It is also problematic that, on the basis of a report from the General Accounting Office, a total cost of EUR 400 and a cost savings of EUR 14 000 is projected. There is an imbalance, which I do not know how the government intends to balance it. I also regard Article 12 as a problem with the amendment of the provisions of Law 2637/1998. We repeat that, instead of the abolition of two special scientists' seats, a special scientist's position must be maintained and one of the two representatives of the Ministry removed. I wonder again why the Minister should appoint the Director-General of OPECE. President, Vice-Presidents and Director-General of a legal person governed by private law must not be appointed by any Minister. This is where we want open procedures. Also, what will be the annual expenditure, which I mentioned just before, on payment of remuneration to banking institutions, for the task of checking the reimbursement of invoices and cheques? It's undetermined. And how will the banks charge? Who's gonna regulate these? Banks or their respective management machine, ministers, etc.Huh? And I come to 'Symptom number two', and I say well all this, to take the first steps for marking, for one thing for the other. But you tell me about the continent and we have Mr Karagiannis, who is the SYRIZA rapporteur for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u151	And from the Jannahs!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u152	Sure. All Yanniots have made lobby here, Minister. And now you'll hear that we shouldn't throw the water in the bucket and the bucket has a hole and go away. It is a good effort to protect primary production, but now tell me how growers will feel in Epirus, in the coastal regions, when, on Monday, it passed us three days ago, large quantities of sewage and waste from the Ioannina Industrial Area were rejected in the Lapsista trench and ended up in the Kalama River. Let me just say: the inhabitants of the village of Klimatia wake up on Monday, who have agricultural production there and see dead fish, urban waste water, sewage of the industrial area in their fields and in the river, in Kalama river, which is a wonderful river, is the seventh largest in Greece. It is an agricultural and labouring, and it offers a river, because it waters thousands of acres of crops, twenty - five thousand acres of crops. So you tell me now: do they not go to vote for the law, when on one hand we help primary production, and on the other there is this uncontrolled environmental situation in such an area? How far back does this lead to the farmers in Epirus - for example - and the wider Ioannina region? Citrus fruits, clovers, corn, habitats and shelters for wildlife and of course an amazing fauna and flora, several endemic species are in danger. I am following the move 'Natural Kalamas', the Vice-President of Thanasis Cecura, who made complaints - and I will submit them here for the Minutes - because the quantities rejected were not just large, they were too large and they lead agricultural production back. So I leave the realistic example of the Kalamata river, to come and conclude in my speech, saying that it is not enough to claim European funding, but we need to create a balance - I would say - for the environment. All forces around the farmer must be mobilized. We want the farmer who is trying, the farmer who also wants to move forward, to do research, to develop his products and produce. That's the kind of farmers we want. From there on, the public administration has to follow, not by suffocating, but by running, before even the need for what I have said to you is for the creation of products of primary production and processing of high value. We're positive, we're going to vote on the draft law. As far as the amendments are concerned, of course, I have a number of questions, Mr Minister. For example, the amendment from the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction premiums those who already have to carry out administrative tasks and does not introduce evaluation criteria. We will say 'no' to this amendment. We will also say that the amendment to the Democratic Reconciliation is positive. He's dealing with the situation. It shall not affect the budget of the ELGA. And of course, we would also like to hear your opinion here too. We find it positive. As far as the OSH amendment is concerned, we have a problem here. And I'm going to bring my own proposal back here. You'll tell me that now it's a state law that OSH is no longer a state at all on time for a couple of years, because then transport is being released. I would tell you to dare trust Greek private businessmen, small businessmen. A small businessman may also be the one who melts at the wheel today at the OSTH, but who can make a partnership with some other drivers and claim, if you give him that possibility, a route, a package of routes. This is where we do not need to state the organization of the transport project. We need to enable individuals around this transport project to claim certain routes, as is done in many European cities. I reserve the amendment. I want to hear your answers. Please, dear Minister, tell us how you would deal with the Gianniotis grower, who is cultivating - let us say - a rubyl, for example, corn or citrus, who would come and tell you "good all that you say to us, Minister, but the river stinks, the river draws dead fish". [[Laughers in the Chamber]] How do we deal with this? So we need a holistic approach and that is what I propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. As I said before, the circle of rapporteurs and speakers has closed and we are entering the circle of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u154	Madam President, Kalamas River fainted, didn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u155	Kalamas, also known with river racing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u156	May I, Madam President, say something else?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u157	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u158	Madam President, I am sorry, but because I see that my fellow Members are asking me, Kalamas has a problem, the river lives and reigns and will become Niagaras. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u159	Now, then, the speaker's circle opens, with a speech time of seven minutes. In the intervening period, the Parliamentary Representatives will be able to speak every two, every three, as well as Deputy Ministers and State Secretarys. We're starting the list of Mr. Spartino from SYRIZA. Please keep time to finish with a horizon that we have calculated until 22.00 p.m. to 22.30 p.m. Mr. Spartin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today in favour of this draft law to prove our support for farmers, farmers and fishermen, to show and safeguard the quality of Greek products, but also to contribute to the substantial development of primary production, which is a key pillar in the country's productive reconstruction. With this draft law on our part, we are actively proving our support for the primary sector, by monitoring and rationalising the functioning of the agricultural and livestock markets, but also at the same time protecting the consumer. The main aim of the project is to tackle the phenomenon of Hellenism and, on the one hand, to tackle the long-term delays in the repayment of producers by traders, without, of course, underestimating the reform of the legislative framework on the exploitation of farm water and which is included in the draft law. The way of incorporating from New Democracy and the PASOK into Greek law of the European Directive 7/2011 on the prevention of delays in the repayments of producers, through the provisions of Law 4452/2013 not only did not lead to the avoidance of the imposition on the market of the conditions of the major and powerful traders, but on the contrary facilitated it, since the possibility by private agreement to extend the repayment time to the producers was allowed. The delays in repayments were thus used as indirect funding for the activities of the powerful, who naturally had increased negotiating power. We had reached the point of products with a few days' expiration date to pay off after a year and to live the irrationality of developing on their backs the unfair competition of the strong, to turn producers into informal financial institutions for financing their customers. That legislation was the culmination of the hypocrisy of the then ruled by the artificial self-determination of the measure. In the morning, the rapporteur of the New Democracy passed it very quickly, making a reference to the abuse of the law, while everyone understands that the law as it had been formulated was precisely to annul the possibility offered by the European directive. The provisions of the draft law which is now being promoted ensure the compulsory payment of repayment within two months, without 'loopholes' and the possibility of misinterpretation and with the responsibility of the producer itself. Moreover, in real faith in the quality of Greek products and their contribution to growth, but also in the proper nutrition of the citizens, together with the obligation of the state to protect consumers against fraud, the mandatory labelling of the origin of milk and meat is institutionalised in order to address the phenomenon of Hellenism, but also to strengthen the power of the Greek producer in the globalised market by strengthening the Greek brand name mainly in dairy products. The combination of labelling of meat and an integrated electronic traceability system "from the stable to the plate", as the SYRIZA rapporteur said, will not only protect the consumer from the various epidemics baptising foreign meat, but will also act as a protection shield for the Greek farmer. It is obvious, of course, that the success of all good legislative intervention depends on its implementation. We have heard that from many colleagues and from many sides of the House, and that is right. In this case, this critical parameter is control of production - I would say it is more critical and more important than fines - the organisation, people, instruments, traceability and control of auditors, a parameter in which the public administration has weak points throughout its activities, despite important steps taken in many areas lately. Obviously, I am referring not only to the products mentioned in the current draft law, but to the whole range of products and services that fall under the jurisdiction of the public administration. The policies for deforestation of services and control structures followed by previous governments have certainly contributed to this, and even before the time of the crisis. Reliable, serious, irresponsible controls, you see, did not serve the customer state and the political forces that supported for many years their sovereignty in his perseverance. We are obliged, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to move forward in every way in the reconstruction of the control mechanisms and restore the confidence of the citizen, the consumer and the producer in the state. It is a good thing that, as far as I know, other draft laws are coming from other ministries that are aiming in this direction. Finally, the draft law responds to the urgent need for reform and the legislative framework for the exploitation of livestock waters, as these are productive systems with traditional fisheries contributing to the production and export of high biological and quality products which have been experiencing problems in the last 20 years of reducing production, environmental and other. The proposed provisions aim to modernise and rationalise the renting of water, with priority for fisheries cooperatives and to reorganise employees' cooperatives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude very soon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating is another sign of our perception of development, a development that is not equivalent to overlooking laws, environmental regulations, the rules of healthy competition and labour rights, is not based on cooperatives - seals, cooperatives - sources of corruption, with the sole aim of ensuring the profit of certain economic circles. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not, as has been said earlier, pour crocodile tears on cooperatives. Some others actually shed tears because they lost the chicken with gold, but cucumber eggs, which were some cooperatives that had operated in certain times. Our aim is to develop with respect for the rules and laws, the environment, the worker and the producer, by strengthening the collective and cooperative spirit, that is to say, a fair and sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u161	Mr Harakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development, a really interesting bill in a positive direction, takes place on the day after the so-called Development Conference in the region of Thessaly in the presence of the Prime Minister. Of course, as we read, Minister, it took over ten degrees of MATs and a multitude of policemen who had created a sterile environment to carry out the 'conference-maste'. Unfortunately, in addition to some concessions of camps in the Municipality of Larissa, it was difficult to discern specific and costly announcements by Prime Minister for Greece, for which he was supposed to present his own roadmap. He did not even reiterate the commitment to the absorption of all four hundred young farmers in Thessaly, as he did for young farmers at the Western Macedonia conference. Communicating games, instead of a structured proposal. In particular, what he said to justify your obsessed with cancelling the mild diversion of Acheloos did not convince of the existence of an alternative plan with a timetable that could devour thesaurus threatened by desertification. I have even kept the hope that the Prime Minister would overcome your ideas and adopt the unanimous proposal of self-government and scientific bodies in Thessaly to complete Acheloos's works. Have you, in addition to the millions that have been well or badly spent so far for a project that will remain incomplete, how much will the restoration of the region cost from the projects that you make unnecessarily? The Prime Minister also said that all actions in the primary sector would be evaluated so that each euro would have a multiplier effect. Indeed, what is the multiplier effect of the payment of the PSEN under liquidation with EUR 1.8 million from ELGA? I am speaking, Minister, of rural organisations which, as Deputy Minister for Rural Development, sent to the economic prosecutor for the administration of the almost EUR 60 million that they received as a grant from the ELGA from 1994 to 2011, without ever giving an account. Of course, I have become unpleasant - even in my party - because I have not signed any funding in PASPEGES, GISSE and SYDASE, and no one has dared to sign a disbursement decision. We are therefore informed a few days ago that there has been disbursement by court decision. In his communication ELGA, to justify unjustified grounds, argues that he did not attend the trial to defend the interests of the public, because he was ignorant. Is that an excuse, Minister? How much more, when the organization first pays only 80% of the damage! There's money in the ELGA, but for the PASPEGES! And since you are not seeking responsibility from the administration, will you at least tell us what you will do? You're gonna swallow it like that? What else can we expect? Should we wait for forgiveness of sins? Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the outset, the bill is moving in a positive direction. It is indeed important for producers to be paid within sixty days, as laid down in the relevant Community directive that is strict. Unfortunately, the exception contained in the directive 'unless otherwise defined by the parties' became a rule, with the victims of the weakest in this relationship, i.e. producers. In order not to become fenaca, however, polyshops should also be understood as a trader and cheese products subject to Annex I. Otherwise, if cheese farmers pay the farmers in sixty days and their supermarkets pay back in six or nine months, the arrangement will strangle small cheese establishments and lead the place to ‘cartelisation’. Minister, if I have diagnosed correctly from what you said about legislative improvements, it is good that you are accepting the labels of operators. The second important intervention of the draft law is the labelling of origin in milk. Mr Tsipras yesterday in Larissa, trying to be trusted in what he promised, closed his speech by saying that since they are heard by the Prime Minister's mouth, they can only be implemented. I don't know, Minister, if they laughed at the audience. However, there are so many examples of the disputes - I am not talking about what is known as fraudulents myself - that I do not know what to first memorialize. Since we are talking about milk, however, I remember him in this Chamber as Prime Minister to commit to abolishing the OECD's very spectacular regulation on fresh milk. However, not only did it not bring the life expectancy back to five days from the seven, to which it was restrained because of my resignation at that time, but there is no longer any limit anymore. The life of the fresh milk is allowed in the patriotism of the dairy industries. So much value is being attached to the Prime Minister's commitments. The farmers, of course, remember, Minister, and your commitment to Harakopoulos' 'Agreement', as you called it, to restore the life expectancy of milk over five days. The regulation you are bringing about for milk is essentially a copy of the French legislation, as the French started the claim in question two years ago, which accepted the labelling for a two-year trial period. But there were also gray zones on which it is important to see them before they become the last hand error in the first place. I am talking about unfair competition with other countries of the European Union, which can import milk that has been bred into a third country, processed, packed and forged on the Greek market as a product of the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Madam President. As far as the country of origin of meat other than the weighing machine is concerned and the cash flow is concerned, I think it is indeed a good step. A cornerstone, however, to avoid a gift of bread, is the intensification of controls, which, unfortunately, in recent years, as farmers themselves have pointed out, have been at stake. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, this bill looks like a lightning exception to the orchestra of measures which you have imposed on farmers and farmers from the estuary of insurance contributions, until the abolition of tax exemptions, such as the so-called 'farm oil'. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Minister, I imagine that you will now realize the value of the popular saying "outside the dance many songs". You've been through a lot. You promised a lot, perhaps because you were delusional, perhaps because you had good intentions. But at the end of the day we are not judged by our intentions, but by our projects. Your sins are enough. Do not lift up to your shoulders and the sins of others who expose you, as in the case of PASPEGES. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor from the Golden Dawn of Constantine Barbarousis for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u164	Thank you. Inside the alalum that exists in the primary sector with the contributions from the ECA on the one hand and the declarations of income on the other, a bill for vulnerable and fresh products also comes. Because we have solved all the other problems in the primary sector, we will now also be dealing with the protection of the Greek producer. That is at least what you claim you want to achieve with this bill. It would be good at this point to remind us that the primary sector should be the main pillar of the development of our national economy. But, unfortunately, no government has moved in this direction, so that this can be achieved, let alone in recent years that the electronic requirements you have made by farmers have increased greatly. You're treating farmers as if they were businessmen. Unfortunately, however, they are neither businesspeople, nor accountants. And it's not from any profit they make, most of all give it to the accountants. You forget that farmers, farmers and fishermen are simple people, who are struggling every day to produce at the risk that all production overnight can be destroyed by weather phenomena or disease. But there is also a greater risk. Even if production goes well, they might fall into some fraudulent dealer, take their products, leave them unpaid, and then they can't find their point anywhere. Unfortunately, as I have said before, the farmer is not an entrepreneur and he is not often able to pay lawyers and court expenses to go to court and find his point of view. But even if he decides to do it, he's most likely never faired. You are defending, you say, the primary sector. Can you tell us how you defend him, since this bill will cause confusion to the concepts of trader and producer again? For example, agricultural cooperatives will sometimes be treated as producers and sometimes as traders. You are talking for a maximum period of time to repay a producer from the trader for the sixty days following the issue of the invoice. It is worth wondering how you define sixty days, when in most countries in the European Union, a more narrow margin of time has been established for producers to pay back. For example, in Spain and Italy the margin is 30 days. Furthermore, this time-limit favours a share of producers, it does not at all favour producers who grow short-term products. Furthermore, should this legislative framework for the repayment of the products produced not apply to final commercial recipients? And I am thinking above all of the big supermarket chains, which all of us know that their repayment times also touch the hundred and twenty days. This bill obliges the producer to produce electronic data. In other words, we are reaching what I said before that you are obliging the producer concerned to invest it in an accountant. Without the help of a specialist, there is no way the producer can obtain an electronic record, how much he will not send it to the competent authorities so that he can get his money. You refer to penalties, if the legal repayment period is not extended, but if there is negligence to produce the data to the competent authority. You are talking about deletion of traders from the register if there are three consecutive infringements. But you are not telling us anything about this competent authority, which will do the checks. How do we ensure that it does not cover the offenders with the so-called "loin"? Because something tells me that those who work in this competent authority will be found with swimming pools from one day to the next. Of course, you did not forget to defend the consumer. You say that the origin of milk is compulsory. This labelling, however, is based on the term 'origin within the European Union' or 'origin outside the European Union'. The consumer will therefore guess which country the milk comes from. Is it Greek or is it from Romania? With this and the others, because I studied this bill, if I were told to give a title, I would call it "unnulled". In fact, I do not think it will help farmers somewhere and especially small farmers. On the contrary, it will create additional problems for existing ones and once again production will be in the nails of middlemen. This bill will work like another stone in the direction that is no more than the farmer's disappearance. Your goal is to create multinational companies and turn the Greek slave producer into his own land. If you are really interested in the primary production sector, get out of your office, go to the province, listen to their real, everyday problems, problems that have arisen and are created by your irresponsible policies. I will give you a small example, since I have dealt with livestock farming to show you how irresponsible and ignorant you are on the subject. You oblig farmers to mark their ears with plastics. Do you know that every year farmers lose many animals because of this? And it is not enough that, because of this method, animals are suffering and dying, you require that after they die to be returned to you, so that it can be recorded. So if the animal eats it or dies on a steep side of the mountain, tell me where the farmer will find the animal to bring the plastic back to you. I will give you some advice if you really want to help farmers. Stop legislating. It is not really necessary to justify your wages, ministers and assistants to legislate just to show that you are working. Enough of the leg bills, which only create problems rather than solve. Get some rest. Don't motivate any more for the good of the farmers. Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much. I would ask my colleague from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasio Bardalis, to take the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. I shall concentrate mainly on the first chapter because of the limited time, namely the late payment to farmers. I should like to point out at the outset that this problem should not be seen out of the overall anti-agricultural policy - we say - and today and the previous governments. Why? Because if we saw it, it would be simple. Not in sixty days, but at the time when they deliver their products, farmers are paid. That's what it takes. But this issue also has a direct link with your general anti-popular policy, which of course also creates a very hard reality for farmers and farmers. I want to be specific. All of you in this Chamber, and not just here, where you stand, are talking about the need to strengthen primary production, and even saying that with your own policy the whole rural economy will be formed into a power-driven economy as a whole. But what do you hide from the farmers, from the farmers and from the people? That the economy as a whole, therefore, is designed to work in such a way that it serves the profits. In other words, if there is no profit there can be no growth in the rural economy and the economy as a whole. You yourself say that, if there are profits, the rural economy must be competitive. Who can really be competitive on such a path, on such a way of planning the economy? The kid or the big guy? You all know the big fish eats the little fish. But that means, in practical terms, that in order to bring these kinds of development into our country, we need large agricultural enterprises. In practice, that is what you are hiding from the poor, the small and the medium-sized farmers, is that you have prescribed them. It's for the unlocking. This promotes this anti-popular policy, and under no circumstances does the bill you bring over this anti-popular course. All of you and the government and the other opposition parties are talking about turning to business agriculture. After all, yesterday the Deputy Minister for Rural Development at the conference in Thessaly mentioned that the model promoted by the government should turn the producer into modern businessman. This is not a clue that you're mocking people. You are, of course, mocking them because you are not going to make business for poor and medium-sized farmers. Mostly you hide the truth from them. They are going to be dismantled with this policy. That is what you are trying to do with what you are saying and of course you are doing in practice. This shift in entrepreneurship, therefore, means the removal of poor small and medium-sized farmers, in the view of the JRC. Those who cannot be competitive. Those who do not have the funds to invest and therefore cannot contribute to the 'development' of agriculture and livestock farming you are seeking. And here it sticks to what the Prime Minister said yesterday from Larissa that he will not continue to donate supposedly producers. So who's supposed to be? The ones who do a piece of money so they can survive? The ones who have income from another source? And, of course, for all of them, you are ending subsidies, no more compensation, and it goes on to say. So an hour earlier in the lockdown. That truth you want to hide. All the measures that you have taken, by voting on all the Memorandums - all three - the Common Agricultural Policy, which you all support, serve on the one hand to remove small and medium-sized farms and on the other, create all those conditions so that there is a profitable way out of accumulated funds in the agricultural and rural economy. The first is, in fact, a precondition for the removal of farmland. In other words, to get the investors' profits, as you say, of big capital. You want to blur that reality. In other words, the unpopularity of the common agricultural policy and the European Union, and you are swinging in the face of the agricultural sector, as if the European Union were going to save them. Do you not know, Minister, that despite the subsidies for years now, we are continuing to dismantle the farm? And not just in our country. To see that total responsibility is in the Common Agricultural Policy and in the European Union, in the 2003-2014 decade 27% of farms disappeared, and at the same time 14% in our country. Do you not know, too, that 80% of subsidies take it into a handful of big farmers and even waiting at the corner like the crows to get for free a piece of the land and the violin of those you are destroying? A benefit from subsidies, however, is not only for the big farmers, but also for the commercial industrialists, who, due to subsidies, have a hard time buying agricultural produce from farmers and selling it to consumers, of course, making huge profits. Let us now go to the question of payroll. What do you stand for? That within 60 days farmers will be paid. What will they get paid for? Are you talking about the degrading prices? Are you talking about production costs? Are you doing any interventions in these matters? Why do farmers sell cheap and the people pay expensive? Who wins this difference? You're saying a word? Of course not! You're talking about payback. Do you forget the "CAPNIKI A. MICHAELIS" that owes tobacco producers more than EUR 7.6 million and does not pay them? Are you aware that farmers are selling their production to processors and industrialists, major traders, at an open price, which they are surely learning much later and in any case is humiliating? Take peaches or apples, for example, because the problem is not just fresh products. Do you not know, too, the enclosures of various commercial companies and the situation of bankruptcy law, which everyone will get, if they do, if they do, which they never have - the workers and the farmers? And yet, even in this case, you voted against the proposal brought by the Communist Party of Greece. In our view, there is a way out. The people can have sufficient and cheap quality products. The industry must have raw materials and the farmer can live well as human beings, be able to feed himself and his family. This is not the case, however, with the organisation of the economy in the way it is applied, i.e. by serving the profitability of business groups. In order to do this, we need to get out of the way those who take advantage of the farmer’s labour force, the labor force. In other words, the big traders, the industrialists and the bankers must move out of the way. Another country that expresses the people's interests will ensure a satisfactory income to the farmer, raises life in the village, providing modern infrastructure for education, health, culture and sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, Independent MEP, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. I usually do not go hand in hand with the views of the Communist Party. But today, I think I found a point of collision. To what? In the initial and overall position of the previous colleague, that this bill will not serve the interests of farmers, at least in its first chapter. And why am I saying that? I, of course, start from a different base from that of my colleague in the Communist Party. So, what's my position? Reading the first chapter, on which almost all sides have stressed that it will serve small farmers in particular by achieving the short payment of fresh and vulnerable products, I wanted to see how this will be done. Through a mechanism, a central platform at the Ministry, via banks, where the amount paid is greater than the amount allowed in cash. So I was given the following question: has the government solved the problem of so-called red agricultural loans? Is he aware of it so that tomorrow's deposit with the farmers' bank accounts will come the clearer to commit the bills, the one who sent out the screens and became such a dormitory? And in the end, what are we going to do? Instead of developing the rural economy, instead of strengthening farmers, we will now achieve the payment of late payments and, in addition, the weakness of new production in the agricultural sector, at least in the small farmer and in the small cooperatives. Because if this money is taken away from income, there can be no new production, there can be no survival of rural families. So, ladies and gentlemen, I want to become specific now, because what I am talking about does not arise out of nowhere. Am I following the issue of regulating the agricultural loans of the former ATE BANK through the clearer and what impression have I created? I have formed the impression that the government does not dare to regulate them. And I'm explaining why I'm saying that. I have before me an interview from Mr. Apostle in the newspaper "BIMA" on May 14, 2017, and it is also official because it comes as a press release of the Ministry. So it says in this interview - I will not tire you - that it concerns thirty-five thousand farmers, a sum of seven hundred twenty-seven cooperatives, with a total amount of debt before 2012 in the first category 1,894,000 euros and EUR 1,600 000 in the second category. It says, however, “Unfortunately, because of the operating framework and the purpose of the liquidation of the ATE, it is impossible to regulate these loans”. What's going on here? So will we let the agricultural assets be seized in favour of the clearer? I would like to remind you that the good BANK transferred to the other bank, Piraeus Bank, was subsidized by 7.5 billion from the Financial Stability Fund. It was subsidized to get the part of ATE BANK. Therefore, these obligations were fulfilled by the Greek State, by Greek taxpayers. What claims are those that come today? Is it the arrogances? Are those the frogs? What exactly is it today? So I continue in relation to Mr. Apostle's article, so that I don't get tired. "The Ministry..." says, "... works out a specific solution whereby the mortgage property of farmers is recorded, assessed and divided into rural and urban. The first shall be transferred to the DDIAGE...’. In other words, the agricultural property is now being created, after an enforced execution. Don't laugh, Mr. Apostleu, you guys have said that, I haven't said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u169	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u170	You should answer that. It's your right, but from you I get it. I don't draw any arguments from elsewhere. In other words, the agricultural property will be confiscated, confiscated, statized - if you like - and then we will give it to farmers, instead of a rent, through the ODIAGE, so that we can have a centralization, a full control. That's what Mr. Apostolos said on May 14, 2017. Repeat them by press release on 20 July 2017. He's sticking to his opinions. "We therefore want the use of the promised agricultural property to be granted to us and we have the DIAGE..." Farmers are on their way. Where will farmers grow? Will they cultivate on a land that will have been removed from them, become state and if we want, will we put everyone we want, whenever we want, the good ones and exclude others? The press release will be filed and that will be the case. Thirdly, I brought it with a timely question to the House with parliamentary scrutiny. I have the Minutes here. It is about the need for an immediate settlement of the red agricultural loans. The same answer I got from Mr Apostleos that they will go to the DDIAGE and will be executed on rural property. The urban market will be sold through enforcement to cover the damage of the 'bad' rural Bank and we will therefore be fine. So the legislation is coming today, and what does it say to us? We have to pay in sixty days. The producer must be paid in sixty days. In other countries it is thirty, it is twenty, it is ten, it is good, but they do not have these problems that we have in the rural world. They don't have a clearer turning from a stanbul and he's waiting for what he finds to grab, to charge responsibility to the detriment of poor farmers or small cooperatives. So, is the system going to work? I had the claim, therefore, that, instead of coming this bill today, a bill was preceded by a bill regulating agricultural loans, so that the farmer knew what would be the case or what would not be the case. However, because this does not come - and I do not know if it is appropriate, unreserved, unreserved, or what else it might be, I do not have a place on it or I do not want to take a position - I have a proposal to make. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you have the courage, gentlemen of the government, to hear? Why am I saying "the courage"? I propose that you put legislative improvement in this legislation and declare the account in which the sale price of agricultural fresh and vulnerable products will be deposited in order to enable the small farmer, the small farmer, the small cooperative to be able to re-produce, re-produce and continue to survive so that we can make these units viable and do not let them be anymore in foreign funds. Because I must remind you that the liquidator, the company that has been liquidating the problem banks, has shareholders of various private funds, and we will finally give the funds the management of wilderness loans. So, Mr President, that is all I'm saying. In the short term everything will have been seized - I want it to be prohibited to confiscate credit institutions as third parties of the price or amount deposited into a bank account concerning the transactions of this article fresh and vulnerable products. This will give a minimum of protection, at least temporary, until the rest of the issues are cleared up. As long as this is not the case, unfortunately - I do not want to be a veteran of evil - the mechanisms of forced execution will be mobilised tomorrow and I do not know how these situations can be prevented. I want to remind you of something else before I finish. In accordance with the political procedure, which applies to enforcement, Community aid or subsidies to the hands of the OPEKEPE shall be inappropriate until they are deposited on the bank account of the farmer or the farmer. That's where they're confiscating. So what protection do we have? So I put it as a legislative improvement and let the government, Mr Apostolos, decide what position it will take. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much Mr. Carras. Before I give the floor to Mr. Apostolos, I would like to inform the House that MP Mr. Theocharis (Harris) Theocharis asks for permission to be absent on the dates 13, 16 and 17 October 2017 for a visit to the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in America. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u172	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u173	I would expect Mr Karras to know that all the legislation with circulars, with amendments, is being implemented. So it is incomprehensible to say that it will be possible to confiscate the banks through this process of payments. There's nothing like that, but no way. It's our thing. We have a year to implement this provision. All this, Mr Carras, we've studied it before we bring the order. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have to say is that from the debate in the committees up to today, what I have achieved was that, whether in an additional direction or in a reservations or with the exception of the two parties that are against the European process, the rest of us are going there somewhere. The least was 'positive', the best was 'we vote in principle'. So we have a very positive climate, particularly as regards the approximation of these regulations, because in fact the draft law we are discussing three is its basic arrangements. It is the compulsory indication of'milk' and'meat' and, of course, it is the payments. However, since there has been a reference - not from me, in general - to the government's progress in the regions of the country, it is certainly our right to present our proposals and communicate with local societies. And I'm telling you, communications are regular. Anyone who only attended Larissa, I am referring in particular to the rural area, and saw the meeting of six and a half hours with the bodies and representatives of the rural area, then he would understand what it is that we are doing. I particularly refer to the rural area, which is now a common view that it has now risen to many interesting points. You are all attending one another's reports, conferences, discussions. Why? Because, having the ability to respond to what is necessary for our country, development, productive reconstruction, I would say, the position in the political scene, in general, what he deserves. And it really deserves Greek farmers to have, in terms of the whole political world, a consensus when we particularly come to discuss matters that are very serious. Is it not a serious question of rural liquidity? Even though, at the very least, we can contribute to this approach, is it not positive? Is it not serious that the Greek consumer should also be informed where the product concerned originates and, of course, the producer himself should know that he has the support of the state over his production process? So we have this particular arrangement, which is really beyond the consensus that has been reached, and I think that, as far as I understand it, what we have said is going to do about the improvements - I have already told you - they have been tabled and I think there has been no objection on the part of the speakers. Let's move on, then. Before entering into details of the bill, it was said that this government does not legislate in the rural area. Honestly, I am surprised when there are terms of office of previous ministers and governments that have not brought a bill. Not even a bill! We are now talking about the third bill, apart from the various amendments and regulations. And what bills? Legislations which, at least in the debate, were all agreed with reservations. I really think that this bill we brought for grazing land was, and it is still, an incision in the livestock sector. But when I listened to the Consensus MPs, I said, 'although they have not understood what we are going to do?' Do you know what a first result is? That thanks to this arrangement we have now come to talk about management plans in specific areas, to discuss the possibility of setting up Lithuanian units, with the prospect that by 2019 each farmer will have his own Lithuanian unit, and not only to meet the needs of selectivity to get his aid. You all forget that around EUR 310 million fines we had every year for pastures. From 2015 onwards, they stopped. Furthermore, the decision of the committee, which has been accepted, is to ensure that we have obtained eight more million acres of grazing land, in order to cover both the eligibilitys and the needs that are essentially related to feedingstuffs. We are setting terms with which people are now beginning to realize that here we have an area, that they have their pasture, what we will see, how we will load it up, about the livestock units. These are unprecedented for the rural area. We brought the other bill concerning the cooperatives. Honestly, wasn't it acceptable to all of you that it's no longer going with the cooperatives? Wasn't the phenomena of mismanagement and waste that devastated the space, which, of course, worked largely with party purposes? We're not here to salvage the cooperative space. We're here to give him the opportunity to organise himself. And I really don't understand what you're saying, that we're going to destroy the autonomy of the cooperative movement. Where does that come from? We give the opportunity to develop all the collectives, all the collective forms, so that we can make use of the possibilities of the rural development programme. We are now discussing, for example, the question of payments. Is this possible to be served if there are, on the other hand, no farmers who always bear in mind the cooperation function? Since we are talking about cooperatives, I would particularly like to focus on fear - and yours, Mr Carras, and others - that we are coming to get the property of cooperatives in general in rural areas, particularly with the Agency, the ODIAGE. Do you not have an accurate picture of where the cooperative function is today, how the image is shaped, and perhaps this leads to mistaken estimates? The cooperatives that are or will be wound up and all of their assets are particularly mortgaged on the liquidator of ATE and have public debts. Do you know how much this total is? It's 3.5 billion! And you realise that these 3.5 billion are due before the transfer - I do not want to use any other conditions - of the Agricultural Bank at Piraeus Bank. So you realise that the majority of them are now inactive. The majority of them are in the liquidation process and by the end of 2017 this story must end. Why? Because there's a big fortune behind, which we don't want to get into a sales process, we don't want it to be lost from the rural area. That is our purpose. That's our target. And neither do we want to create state-owned people, as you say, processes. Of course, this does not mean that the legislation does not provide for what is to be done and what is to be done. But for us, our aim is not to stop any agricultural operation, not a minute. We will try to solve this issue in legislation, because the rural area is in such a situation that all this property needs it. So let me tell you that two thousand cooperatives, which have been inactive for years, with or without assets, at the end of 2017, according to the law, must be put into liquidation by decision of the court. The vast majority of them have completed it. There are others who have not completed it. So who will do these procedures when in many cases we are looking to find the cooperatives, who are they, and how are they? We have called multiple times and the rest of the parties to see how we can deal with this big problem. It's a painful and difficult process. And we call again from this Step to see it with a consensus. This is the first problem in the cooperative space. And there is, of course, also in the rural area. The issues of persecution have been raised, which is a matter relating to the responsibility of the administrations. Indeed, it is a problem that we need to look for. However, we will look for it together, particularly those responsible for the fact that we have come to this situation, after approaching all the issues together - what I have said before you - the charges, mortgage assets, etc. All this needs to be looked at, because that's the only way to take the step, the start.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u174	When do you see it, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u175	Do you honestly ask, "When do you see it?", when you have ruled this country for decades, 20 years, you see it all happening and you whistle indifferently? You too remember some interventions made by certain agricultural organizations. And in the end, we're looking to find out where they've gone, where the hundreds of millions have been lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u176	Let's help it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u177	You're saying that to help! You said, Mr. Jelloney, we'll get their properties, we'll take the houses? We have no intention of doing so. I'm going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u178	Which houses? What did I say? I told you about the properties of the farmers' cooperatives. And I said you didn't read the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Colleague, please. Let the Minister finish. Mr. Theocharopoulos will talk next.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u180	I'm still talking a little bit about the bill. We therefore have the timely payment. You know, at this time we have debates in the Agriculture Council about the practices of the stores, because they are exploiting the rural area. That is what you realise is a very serious issue. And because we were waiting for this regulation to be made compulsory, there is indeed a whole debate and it is in that direction. But we have this directive and, of course, the legislation. That's another one. You brought an arrangement to comply with - supposedly - the timely payment directive in the rural area, and of course you brought it, by putting the footnote, 'Unless the contracting parties decide otherwise'. So you understand in this procedure of the agreement between the farmer, who is the weak link of the chain, and the wholesaler or the store, what we had under the table, what we had, which were practically undoing the application of the law. It is clear here that there will be administrative sanctions. Of course, if we do, we will take more stringent measures, and we will reach the point of deletion from the traders' register. You raised the question of the banks entering this process. If the banks do not want to enter, it will be their own fault, because the rural area, especially at this time, is wanted by the banking system, because it seems to have production, it seems to have enormous potential. So they will lose, not the rural area. There was, indeed, a reaction as to whether the stores would agree and serve. Indeed, as you are aware, the multi-shop negotiations are very strong. We - as you have seen - want to stop it. Therefore, in the threats that stores may turn into other products, import from abroad, we here rely on the Greek consumer. The Greek consumer will be informed by the indication of the country of grubbing-up for Greek milk. And because it has been said that we have retreated to the issue of the seven days, things are very simple here: the Greek consumer who wants to take the Greek milk will find it in front of him. From that point on, it will be the demand that fresh milk will not even reach seven days of consumption. I say this because, especially for this regulation, we have fought. France was the first to take the measure that we bring. I'd say it's identical to that of France. We cannot refer to the non-European Union countries, by name of countries. I wish it could happen! We wanted it, but we can't. This regulation is specific. Of course, it is at this moment that Spain is in a difficult situation with a regulation that it has taken, because at the meeting yesterday or the day before yesterday there have been too many reactions. There is now an attack by the Nordic countries - particularly those producing dairy products - which are now raising the issue that these regulations are also in breach of competition. So we're putting this arrangement in. We've taken thirty months. In these thirty months, we will try - and the rest of the countries, because we will soon be called upon to take stock of this implementation - to establish, together with the other countries, the continuity of this regulation. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. On the subject of PASSENGER, I would like to say: ladies and gentlemen, do you know what we have found? Payments from ELGA to PASEGES totalling 33,000. We said we wouldn't pay. Of course, since 2011, by means of a specific law, Law 4015 provides that such aid will be granted by a ministerial decision. This has not happened since 2012 and Mr Charakopoulos is right indeed. No ministerial decisions have been adopted. A legal order for payment has now suddenly emerged, which we have already objected to in the civil courts. You realise that we will now wait for the decision. What I have to tell you is that this money has been seized at this time in the hands of a particular bank institution. I don't want to say any more, because he's in a court proceedings. And that is what I would say, as a result, even though our behaviour was that we have abolished the PASPEGES. And we come along with specific rules for the second time to close this issue. So we wait for the court ruling. We - I repeat again - will pursue ELGA not to lose. But to say here that ELGA has given the money he has taken...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u181	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Jelloney, it seems to me you're ignoring the legislation. They are obliged to make use of this money. When I found money in specific banking institutions for years with zero interest rates, you realize that this thing was a holocaust. So, right now, what do we do? The specific stocks - which the agencies can at all times take in two, three days - are money which is best exploited. At the moment these deposits have the best interest rate compared with what is generally the case in banking activity. So what's this all about? Is exploiting positive is a problem? Has there ever been a question, in particular in terms of ELGA, of payments due to this weakness? Never! We pay normally. In fact, don't forget that procedures that were for thirteen and fourteen months, we've taken them down to six and seven months. At the same time, we are also facing an impact of climate conditions. Every day we're from a fire flood. So what's that thing for? I would like to close, once again, by saying that this necessity is specifically for the rural area to work together, and these were issues that we discussed at the conference. You raised the question of the management of Acheloos' water. You've been scrubbing in a hole all these years, what were you throwing? Thousands of dollars have fallen. We're coming, taking as a parameter...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u183	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u184	Listen to me, please. The Prime Minister said there is no way for a single acre of irrigating land to be lost. We are making an intervention there, preparing for projects that will be launched. Of course, the corresponding amounts...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u185	It takes five years to do the studies!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u186	Please! You have not dealt with this matter for so many years. We are coming, making a concrete proposal for funding, and stress that even irrigable areas will not be reduced and, of course, through a rationalisation of the use of water that is being made today, we will have such savings that will be the only solution. You can be sure we're doing it. We found the holes and we are called upon to manage all these sins we inherited.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u187	All the self-government and scientific bodies of Larissa are out of place and time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u188	There are amendments. There are other issues. I'll tell my dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Minister. I would ask Mr Javarra, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, I would like to place myself on personal grounds. The Minister referred twice to my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u191	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor. However, we must not open up a great deal of dialogue, so that we can move forward with the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u192	We will not open a dialogue, Mr President. The Minister said that I said in my speech that the DIAGE would take the homes of the farmers. That's not what I said, Minister. I said you'd get the property of the cooperative farmers. Why? Because in Article 27 of Law No.4384/2016 you stressed that the remaining remaining assets are available to another UNSCR for a social purpose, as set out in its statute. What do you say today with Article 13? You say that by means of the new provision the DIAGE has the balance of assets left in another agricultural cooperative or in support of activities contributing to the development of the rural economy. I ask: if this does not open wide open the doors to be given to individuals, what is it then? In relation to autonomy - which is abolished under Article 12(4) of the Constitution for the autonomy of the cooperative movement - it is clear that, when you remove the management of the assets from the general assemblies, you abolish the autonomy of the cooperatives. What else do we have to say to understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u193	Thank you. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, listening to you, I must admit and acknowledge that the most ill-considered listener may have no reason to question your intentions if they are good or not. But it certainly has a lot of arguments to question your style. I would like to assure you that you are not the one who came here as an exterminator of all the evil demons that existed before you and have created such great difficulties in the operation of the primary sector of the economy and especially for the misery of the active rural population! You are already three years old in the government. Because I still have the Prime Minister's announcements in my ears yesterday, I really would like to ask you: really, what have you done for young farmers three years now? What have you done as the Minister responsible to repay debts that your services, the state, and all those who will have to apologise to these people, young farmers? How will you renew the working population of the farm? With these ideas that you're telling us today, it's all about each other and you're not to blame for anything? Of course, what are the three bills you brought? Are these bills related to the productive reconstruction of the agricultural sector? From the nine seats, the nine proposals, as you said, announced yesterday to Larissa by the Prime Minister, is there any on the organization on new bases of agricultural production? To speak to you as well in your ideological language: Is there any measure to date that intervenes and strengthens or changes productive forces in the primary sector of the economy? Have you dealt with the relationship between these productive forces and the established production relations and, unfortunately, with the role that these bad agricultural cooperatives have played in these very connections, which you mentioned here? But did you not tell us this: for the first time have you been in contact with these cooperatives since you became Minister? As I have already seen in your CV, you have been a member of the Agricultural Bank. Did this bank, or at least those on behalf of this banking company, have dealt with the issues that were facing a long time in this place, the bad operation and the ineffective organisation of cooperatives for the first time come to your attention since you became Minister? In any case, the Left in this area so far has no participation in the mess of the two thousand cooperatives you have told us. Finally, in this area, at least on the part of the members of the government, we have the requirement to show more measure and less modestity. You don't have the right, addressing the National Representation, to say inaccurate. You did remind me of the lyrics of a great poet: “I am innocent in total confusion.” That's the point of what you told us here. I'm going straight into this bill to prove that to you. You come here and tell us that in the first chapter you, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, for the first time, have put one order in the timely and timely payment of agricultural, fresh and vulnerable products. Have you really come to believe that this is the problem of farmers, producers? I tell you, then, that I am a mere lawyer, who comes from a very important rural production area, Elias, that the biggest problem that farmers have today and face is not when they will be paid, but the fact that they are not paid. They are not paid, of course, because you have left the doors open to all these salitibagus - and there are too many - who are turning, touring, either themselves or with representatives, who are temptingly shutting down the production of farmers, giving 'pets' checks and disappearing. Does this provision mean anything to them? So since you also know the banking issues, and since you are a left-hander, and your perimeter says so, because you do not bring a provision here to say that whoever pays a cheque to a producer, this check should have guaranteed its payment. That's an incision! But you don't dare do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u195	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u196	If you were more polite, colleague, and, above all, if you were more decent, you would offer very large services both to democracy and to your party. Your infamousness, however, has no limits!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u197	Don't open a dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u198	There's no limit to your envy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u199	Don't lose your temper!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u201	That's your level.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u202	Please, let's lower the tons a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u203	I have no reason to, man. I can deal with you at any time, but at least you should know that there is democratic dialogue here. If you can't stand someone else's opinion, when you don't agree with him, you better get out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u204	Tips we don't accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Javarra, let's lower the tone a little, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u206	Like I'm telling you, it's like I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Colleague, it's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u208	Be more decent and have greater respect for the one who speaks at the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u209	Tips we don't accept!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u210	As we listen to you, as we have heard the Minister before, to arouse us and despise us, for the same reason you are obliged, because you are a representative of the Greek people, to listen to your political opponent. But what such kindness of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Javarra, please. Let us move on to your speech. A little quiet. Let the tone fall, there's no need for tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u212	If it is provoked, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u213	There's no need for tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u214	Please take the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u215	It will be removed, Mr. Javarra, time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u216	Let us continue with you now, Minister, because obviously, your attorney has neither the vigour nor the level needed to answer any arguments. So listen. You bring a bill in which you tell us that within 60 days of the invoice being signed, the price of the sale of fresh and vulnerable products should be paid. The first question is: Who is it that imposes sanctions? You will easily reply to me that it is the Inspection Directorate of the Ministry of Rural Development. But if you take a look at Article 2 and study it on the basis of the rules of the grammar and the scripture, you will, unfortunately, see that this particular service has nothing to do with the imposition of sanctions for the simple reasons: So you say that a competent authority to monitor the compliance and application of Chapter I is the specific address. Question: Really, what difference is there in the concept of 'application' and'reservation'? Is'reservation' another for you and another for 'application'? Second, you're talking about control. At least from your professional experience, you should know - because I think that is how things were going to happen in the rural bank, as they are in all services, I will probably be corrected by the honourable Member here who knows everything - that others are the ones who control and others are the ones who impose sanctions. If you go, for example, to the economic services of the State, you will see that the auditor or the control step goes and draws up an audit report and then the relevant state body comes and imposes ratification. So you are actually making a provision which, by definition, will never apply, because it cannot be the one who controls it, that is to say, that it is the person who controls it. There's also something else. Are you really concerned about the fact that there are too many cooperatives selling their members' products? In this case, of course, you should explain: are they traders selling their own products, as you say, and they are not traders when they sell their members' products? In any case, when they buy - why are there such cooperatives, such as those who buy milk, peaches or oranges, we are talking about producer groups - openly priced by their members, what responsibility should they expect to be on the basis of the bill you bring today, if they do not get the best price for their members within sixty days? But there is still another issue here, which is very simple. In fact, you are not aware that your commitment to this bill is to clarify the scenery. If you had it, you would have looked a little back into the past and you would have seen that those who have ruled the place since 1954 already have provisions that have proved to be even more effective. I am going to talk to you, for example, about the provision of Law 3424/1955 which, for the first time, with the amendment made in 1983, is being punished by those who are over-optimistic in paying the price of fresh and vulnerable products. There are various discriminations, which if you had consulted them a little, you could have produced a legally sound legislative text. But you don't care about that. Do you know why you don't care? You said that before. Your purpose is to travel to Greece together with the Prime Minister and make suggestions. But you're a government! You're no longer making suggestions. You are taking decisions and you must implement the program with which the Greek people have elected you. That's your job. Against this job, you have chosen to say commonplaces, pleasant cosmopolitans, but cosmopolitans. In conclusion, I will give you a wise word said by a German philosopher: "The greatest enemy of man is the commonwealth. Yes, it is cosmopia and, unfortunately, it will not escape it, as you will not escape the cosmopolitan areas that you are displacing us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, could I have the floor for just a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u219	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Javarra, everyone's spirit has to do with the course he had in his previous life.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u221	I spoke about the "soft". It is another word of the word 'etho' and the word'stuff'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u222	Fine, fine. I didn't hear well. Just, for the rest of the stuff you said, I'll tell you one thing. Looks like you don't keep an eye on him from the inside. I now realise that speaking to me about young farmers, improvement plans and what we are doing about the production process means that you are not watching them somewhere. From there on, I'll only ask you one thing. Do you want, yes or no, to make this specific adjustment of payments? If you want it to happen, we invite you to help us, when the implementation time comes, all that you are supposed to show up as problems, to solve together.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u223	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u225	Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u226	First of all, I believe that, because it's not in my character to be abusive, I didn't talk about your morale.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u227	Okay, this is a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u228	On the contrary, I said that I am unable to diagnose your intentions. The intentions are about morality. I talked about your style, that is, your play at the Step. That I have the right to judge. Secondly, you told me that I had nothing to do with the agricultural issue. I will inform you that for twenty years I have been a lawyer of the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives of Elias - Olympia, who unfortunately today over the days of your own and some previous, in any case, is in an unambiguous financial mess. While it was me, it went very well, because then there were real partners that were leading. Thirdly, you ask me if I want to help you. But at least at least you have a deficit in how the parliamentary procedure works, because I and any Member of the House who is the Vice-President cannot, however much he wishes, be the assistant to the performance of a minister. I have a right - and I do, of course, exercise this, even though my colleague across the street wants me to be squeezed - to criticize you and control you. I believe that, from what I have said, if you really have the desire and the serious intention of helping the rural world, you should have benefited. If, indeed, I say, you have this feeling of discipline and apprenticeship that a Minister should show to the representatives of the people. One last, Mr President. In any case, at the moment there is also an amendment, which you certainly have to deal with in the way it is worthwhile and in the way that the state must protect people who have the ambition to deal with the cooperative movement, who have been involved in this adventure and have finally been accused, because while they may not have done anything reproach, they have been beaten by the previous lawless, legal or any other form of action of their predecessors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Javarra, please. I think we're done. We must move on to the next speakers. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u230	So we want to tell you, if you want me to conclude, with a support event that we want to help in this case, because we recognise that there is a social issue. After all, I believe that all the wings of the House have identical or at least similar views. Here, then, we must also help and help you, in order to have at the end of this process a arrangement that will relieve all these people of these burdens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u231	It's pleasant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, will you give me the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u233	Minister, I think we have come to a good conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Javarra, your mood is acceptable to us. But you did not answer the critical question: should farmers be paid in sixty days?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u235	You don't understand. I told you, not have to be paid in sixty days, but you need to find a way to actually get paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, do not have a dialogue now. Respect the time. Please. We must respect the next speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u237	Because I told you that any provision cannot reach the point of obliging a fraud to be consistent in the sixty days when it is intended to avoid payment. Didn't that help you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u238	Mr Javarra, a little respect for the next speakers. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 12th Lamia Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You are looking closely at a very vibrant meeting. You can see how the House works and how there are clashes between government and counterpopulation. Mr Michelovannakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. It is truly paradoxical when one talks about platoons and a sterile environment or when one underestimates these thirteen development conferences, which are now being held in Greece by the government, along with the regions and municipalities, to have arguments such as to underestimate the fact that productive reconstruction and fair growth want to participate together with society. One example I'll just tell you. Ten days ago, in Crete, hundreds of bodies - neither ten nor twenty nor thirty - came to the problems, of which fifteen ministers were inaugurated, and heard and heard. It is strange, then, to speak today and to underestimate such events, which create a policy of coexistence with the popular feeling. As far as the bill on delays in trade and fresh and vulnerable products are concerned, we know that they have a small commercial life cycle and that tariffs are not allowed to be delayed and, if this does not go as a process and we go to court, it is difficult to prove itself. Here you see a Romania and it leaves payment in only seven days. We are therefore introducing a special arrangement for sixty days and with sanctions, beware, fines, the value of the invoice for both parties. This is how, in the end, the sixty days and what the Minister said, if all Parliament's wings finally support it or not. There is compulsory designation of origin for milk, milk products and meat. How? Marking of origin together with the traceability system, which solves any issue. Let us not forget that this concerns not one, not two, but five hundred thousand people. This story of origin markings and the traceability system in these sectors is about five hundred thousand families. Let us not forget the situation in which this bill is being legislated today, when 65% of cow's milk, 85% of beef, 65% of pork and 25% of poultry are being imported, look out. It has a cost this story in the trade balance, which is about 2.5 billion, as the SYRIZA rapporteur, said. There will be a marking with the country of milking, with the country of processing, with the country of packing. Likewise in the meat, from its slaughter to its packaging, there will be a traceability system. Therefore, in Hellenism, no more false and virtual invoices heard by the Anti-Population, no more mortgageing PDO products and especially feta, which must be a common line of Parliament as a whole - it is a Greek one. The institutional framework now for the exploitation of the country's fish-farmers' waters has analysed it very well. We are exploiting intensive fish farming in the lagoons and inland waters and we support fisheries cooperatives and public farms. For cooperation very well, the Minister said that the new partnership that we are visioning - far from all of us, the old man, saw him how it worked - will work in strict contexts. Here, for the first time, is the issue of the social economy, and how, in the end, the social economy will be able to enter into this process, things that are never before about opposition, major and minor, which we are the first to bring. Of course we are concerned about the payment of the assessors of the programme for young farmers, about the inspection of pesticides. Of course we are interested in issues, which have to do with the Board of Directors of ELGA, with the disciplinary bodies of GEOTEU, even with the Ministry's children's camps. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to be far away, because a lot has already been said on the part of our party, we alone have one purpose: last name product of high nutritional value and quality and, very importantly, the conquest of international markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u240	Thank you very much, Mr Micheloannakis, for the time. Minister Chironis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot resist the temptation, because I have not had the opportunity to speak about the gender-change bill, which I feel very proud to have passed from today's House and from our own government. Of course, some have said that Article 3 only went by 148 and that - it says - is a defeat or a lack of coherence of the government. I would remind you that they voted against Article 3 only, so it went through 148-124. So opposition is not consistent enough either, but what you call a possible political problem for me is political victory. I am very pleased that Vice-Presidents voted for the bill and only 124 voted against it and I fully respect the Members of the Co-Population who felt the need to leave or vote against it. Why am I saying that? Finally, we will have a democracy with political culture and political culture today in Europe that is governed by minority governments. We are a government with an absolute majority. To have a law and Members vote consciously for me is a victory, and that is why I have taken the floor on this matter. We should be happy about that. The fact that it has also been done by Communism and Opposition. It's the regularity of democracy. I have also heard too much about the crisis and red loans. So, let me remind you that crisis and red loans are not a weather phenomenon, they are not an earthquake, they are not a natural disaster. There are guilty persons behind both the crisis and the red loans. Specific guilty ones who always talk about these phenomena to a third person. A little modesty doesn't harm this matter. In particular, when there are large amounts of loans from the parties, loan and unscrupulously. I hope not outrageously. I also heard that the law was made a little rough and not - it says - with adequate consultation with farmers. I personally spend 60% of my time with farmers every day. In Larissa we had the first day of six and a half hours of meeting with farmers and the next day, from the morning until the Prime Minister's speech began, I held eight meetings with farmers. One didn't tell me he had a problem with this bill. Everyone said that we have other problems, but that this bill is very positive. Let's start with the pay date first. First of all, here we have the implementation of a directive, which in 2013 was integrated with the classic deregulationist logic of neoliberal logic and I am explaining what I mean. When the state comes to regulate the market, it is obvious that some are displeased. When the state comes with a European directive to regulate the market, some are dissatisfied and trying to override it. They have therefore put in the unbelievable - you have put it, the previous government - that, yes, to apply the directive, but, if the two parties agree otherwise, everything is fine. In short, the state is doing Pontius Pilate here, flying to the north of the wild economy just and unjust, strong and weak, and what does it say to us? That the producer who rots the peach on one hand can be the producer who shaves the milk to be equal to the retailer, who every day takes the cash from the housewife. So if these two agree, it's all good and good. The state there makes Pontius Pilate, and of course we have heard objections today that we are going to regulate, and we are closing this trap of neoliberal, which was obviously for the benefit of the strongest, and I wonder where parties here in this House are telling us that this is not enough. They're probably inadequate. But it's definitely much better than what happened. I have heard, for example, a speaker - I will not say names, so that we do not take them to the staff, because here anyone who hears his name is flying for personal purposes, which was not even done in the trade union amphitheaters - who said 'to deposit the unpaid invoice'. In other words, we will not confuse the act in that sense unless the producer himself denounces it. Do you know what will be the punishment of the producer who will denounce it and send the unpaid invoice? I don't want to tell you because I know a producer who can't sell his milk today, sheep milk, or 50 minutes, because he's been targeted by the cartel. So you give the producer the responsibility. It was also the criticism that it was criminal for the producer. But if we didn't put criminals on the producer, we'd end up with the same result. It's like the known evidence that, if it's not criminal and the client, no one's gonna cut them, because of course it's going to be blackmailed with a discount. It must be an equivalent, it must be a criminal offence or a non-payment. Of course, we have heard the other one, which I consider to be racist. Do farmers, simple people, accountant? Where are the deserts going, he says, to testify electronically? It's racist. I'm sorry, but it takes more years to learn to rule a farm than to become a chemist. I assure you I'm a chemist. Finally, these people are not of a less perception! It's in the 21st century, they have more modern mobiles today in the screens than most in this Chamber and certainly most of the civil servants, who still don't know how to operate a computer. Where did you hear that, that these people are incompetent and have no accountant? What are they doing in their lives? Which country do they live in? Is it possible to say it in the 21st century? What racism is that at the expense of farmers and producers? Have you spoken to them to see? Much more capable of us here than most of us. They have greater wisdom and they handle very comfortably both computers and everything. Some people can't. In all the social categories, there is this. Then to abolish the 'TAXIS' because my father has not learned a computer because he is ninety-one years old! But they didn't tell us here, even if we took it off, how would we do it otherwise? We didn't hear suggestions. Since the summer it's the law in consultation. So let's go to milk. They are wrong, it says, by the Greek industries that will be forced to name a country of neglect, a country of manufacture and a country of packaging and which is favoured by foreigners. Why are they unfair? If we make a good campaign and see that this is the Greek mark, the consumer will prefer it and when they see the other one, which does not have the label on it, the consumer will not prefer it. I think it's an advantage at last. Let me turn to another issue, the causes of Greekism. There's been a lot of noise. Obviously, the causes of the Greekizations are not solved either by a simple listing of all together and not much more by the labelling of the meat. Well, let's say a few reasons. First of all, we have a universal absence of serious interprofessionals. When we say interprofessional throughout the world, it means that 100% of feta production, for example, or Greek meat must be in the interprofessional market. Let's make a decision. In such products, if there is not first of all self-control, if the producers themselves do not cleanse the bad professional from their own space, little can be done by the state. It can do things with the control mechanisms - I will say after them - but it is only the real interprofessionals that will save us from the Greekisations, with the self-control, by allowing the industrialists, the producers themselves and the cheese farmers themselves, all to control their productions so that the 'black sheep' can fly out. This is happening all over the world, and this must be done in Greece. The producers themselves, the cheesemakers themselves, accept it when I speak with them. I say this because there is, of course, a sub-delegation to the services. But who's in charge? Are we going to say the crisis, the theory of subsecution again? So let me say that there were five hundred forty - three veterinarians working at the DAC in 2009. Only four hundred forty-two were in 2014. We have no more recent data, but they are certainly much less, because many have been retired and it is obvious that they have not been replaced by this logic of reducing the state. I ask you to go to the vets at the DAG, who do all the work, and tell them to be in the slaughterhouses and, indeed, to be in the slaughterhouses, with such a rotation, where a sworn oath could be at risk from a healthy colleague. You know very well what happens or at least most. So EFET has only a hundred and twelve in the old ELOGAK, at "ELGO - DIMITRA", it's a couple of forty. So we have no illusion that with this control mechanism, if we do not strengthen the state here, we will have very good results. I will go into an article that is purely my responsibility for aquaculture. It's obvious that, first of all, we didn't change anything in the rental way. All we've done is give the cooperatives a priority. It's not equal to the private. This article is made together - I stress it - with the producers themselves. I can't hear for direct assignment. There's no such thing in it. Obviously, when there are two cooperatives, we will be making a bid and obviously, if there are no cooperatives and there are private ones, of course again, the tender will normally be, as is provided for in the public administration. The sure thing is, we can't have these people blackmail. They already have facilities, they're already inside and they've done it. I come to the Minutes because Mr Amyras was worried about what will become a regime from now on. This is an environmental report on the Messolong. That is what we are establishing today. This has been voluntarily made by the region concerned, but this is now being done. So we are talking about an important reform, which contributes positively to environmental consolidation, but above all to a healthy relationship between the state and the state. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have heard Mr Amyras - perhaps he has not understood what is happening - saying that there is an impact on the budget. That's a mistake. There is no impact on the budget, because what it refers to is the mutual account for improvements, which is 5%. There was the absurdity of the state collecting this money from the producer, and the state itself must make the improvements. So I've rented myself a building from the state, and I want to put air conditioning and I'll pay the state the money to make the state a public contest. That's what we abolished. There is no effect on reality. It looks figuratively like an impact, but it's not because that money actually never went to the public. It wasn't rented that 5%. It was just for improvements. I am referring to Mr Lazarides. We reiterated, Mr Lazarides, the provision with the old definition of Law 420/1970, so that there is no such misunderstanding. We think there would be no misunderstanding. I only close with three amendments that my own office has handled, because it is my responsibility. One concerns the markets for bio-growers. There was a huge need in Greece, finally, for our bio-farmers to acquire their own markets. It was never institutionalised. The other concerns the French meat school. I'm saying the French, because her parent company is in France, who have a long tradition. This was an unbelievableness of the Greek state, there being the school, running and not being able to give degrees. The latter is an amendment that concerns the aquarium growers, so that, at last, on environmental terms, approved by the Ministry of the Environment, they can be in a KAZ. Because you know very well that most of the lagoons are KAZ, they are wildlife centers. It would be absurd if this activity could not be carried out. Much more burdensome. All this traditional activity of our ponds has been self-evident for hundreds of years - not to say thousands - with the KAZs and it has to continue to exist, of course, with the authorisation of the Ministry of the Environment, because the KAZs have been controlled by the Ministry of the Environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor for seven minutes. Let me tell you the show. The parliamentary representative of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Theocharopoulos, will be followed, and then the Deputy Minister, Mr. Kokkalis, will be taken. Here you go, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. By listening to the Ministers, I will start with a humorous - if you like - remark, since the debate on aliens is timely. I guess the members of the government are fierce virtual reality films. Because a virtual reality was actually presented today for the field of farms and farmers, that all over the previous decades everything was done in the wrong direction, that these groups of society had not benefited at all and, suddenly, as soon as the government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks arrived three years ago, it all goes well. Suddenly the farmers and farmers of our country returned to development. I would say to you, Minister, that you should leave this hybris - in the ancient Greek sense of the word 'hybris' - if you want to look, because I very simply think that all the wings of this House want to help in this direction and you should understand that not all of a sudden. There have obviously been mistakes and there have been omissions over the past decades, but there have certainly been too many good things in this place. Surely any omissions made over the last two, three years concern only you. It is good to really hear the criticism of counterpopulation, because I think that you and the government will be able to get better. I think it is good that, both at committee meetings and today, the remarks and reflections of most Members, at least in opposition, do not concern the intentions of the regulations that you have introduced. I sincerely hope that it will prove to be from the course of today's debate and above all from your final position that you are not only content with it. Because in a few days' time after the vote on this bill, the market, i.e. the real economy, will stop evaluating your affairs. It will judge you for your effectiveness as a government and, of course, each of you, how much the provisions you enter today will in practice prove functional and practicable. There are, indeed, many issues that undermined or undermine the whole legislative initiative. It is important that, even at about five, you added to Annex 1, feta, cheese, yoghurt and sausage, because, if you insisted on their exclusion, you would have a huge pressure on the dairy industries in our country, which would be faced with a huge liquidity problem. This is because your intervention does not concern all the links in the supply chain, despite the opposite. You do not, I would almost say scandalously, exclude the trade of the productive business with the retailers. But so, in the real economy, a very big distortion arises. With the new provisions, dairy and other industries, such as fruit and vegetable standardisation, will be obliged to pay the producer in less than sixty days, but will continue to collect from retail sale the value of the products sold in nine months. Of course, you will probably think: “What do these dairy industries care about me or what they do? Let's find them with the retail chains. I may be interested in communication to pass that farmers will be paid within sixty days.’ Unfortunately, however, we are at risk, with the provision that you enter, at the end of the day, not really protecting the interests of producers. So don't be surprised, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Symposia, if in a few months' time you see an increase in imports of raw milk from abroad and don't be surprised if you see an increase in fruit and vegetables from abroad, where they will be available at the supermarket, at the same time that the Greeks will rot in the fields. Unfortunately, the distortion created by these provisions, since you chose not to intervene throughout the supply chain, shows that, unfortunately, this will lead to an increase in imports of raw milk, in new phenomena of Greek agricultural products and, possibly, in certain products such as raw milk and even in the disposal of packed products from abroad, with huge consequences for the Greek dairy industry. There, however, where the whole project really seems to be dead, it is in the mechanism that you are adopting for its implementation and, above all, in the control of its implementation. First of all, I welcome the fact that at last your government, a left government, discovered the usefulness of outsourcing in the Greek public. You are doing this because you are actually transferring to the banks the power to monitor compliance with payment deadlines. But I ask you: should you not consult the banks first? Why have you been identified, Minister, by the banks? They actually come here and "empty" you in terms of the effectiveness of the mechanism and tell you that they cannot check that the transaction deadline is respected when it is made for amounts of less than EUR 1,500 in cash. So in this case you had two choices. One option was to ban the cash transaction, which I think you can't do, or recast the provision, so that you can encourage payment through the banks. After all, what did you choose? Exclude producers from the obligation to send electronic cash-deposit data. Who are, however, Ministers, the producers who are paid in cash? They are usually producers who move small quantities of agricultural products. These in their negotiation with wholesalers and retailers remain powerless and are in fact unprotected. So don't be surprised if these small producers, those who move low-priced products, report you in the next few months blackmailing to producers practices to break invoices to less than EUR 1,500 so that they can be paid in cash. Again, ladies and gentlemen, we are warning you in good time that this thing must be seen so that we do not find these phenomena before us in the next few weeks. I will conclude with a comment on compulsory labelling of the origin of milk. There is currently an informal trade war between the countries of the North and South. Countries such as Denmark and Belgium, but also organisations such as Food Drink Europe, representing the European food and drink industry, are strongly opposed to this specific protectionism, which was launched by France and is developing around milk. The final act of this work has therefore not yet been written. If we assume that the preferences of Greek consumers first come the milk produced and processed here, after milk from the countries of the European Union and finally milk outside the European Union, then I think that what this provision will achieve at the end is nothing but the movement of milk production and trade flows into Greek dairy industries from countries outside the European Union to countries within the European Union and this is due to the exception of Article 7. You are well aware, Minister, that the dairy industry, which supports Greek milk production, does not expect this legislation to mark its origin. In any case, it is already doing so through marketing mechanisms on peak products because it knows that this is a very powerful asset in domestic competition. It will simply be further imposed here, because it will have to apply the label to the provisions of the law and the rest of the industries will in fact have to face unfair competition with European dairy industries thanks to the exception of Article 7, as I have said before. I conclude by saying that the reasons for reducing Greek milk production are some other. It is the modernisation of livestock units, which will allow the reduction of operating costs, to reduce excessive taxation on live animals and animal feed. It is the activation of investment plans for farmers producing feedstuffs themselves. It is the restoration of young farmers in the 2009 invitation who have never received rights in the previous CFP to their actual production potential and are still waiting for this injustice to be corrected. Minister, we are expecting an answer for that too. It is also the implementation of the forecasts for organic livestock, which will increase quality for livestock products. Minister, if you do all this, you'll have us arrogant. Unfortunately, however, in the last three years you have done nothing as government in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Kefaliannis. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Reconciliation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very serious issue today, which is about defending the interests of Greek producers and protecting them from unfair competition practices and ensuring the quality of Greek fresh and vulnerable agricultural products. Yes, although, as we have said, the philosophy of the bill can be in the right direction, but once there are contradictions and gaps and there is still a lack of infrastructure necessary for them to function, even the fragmentary measures. The most important thing, however, is that a comprehensive and comprehensive approach to the agricultural issue is still lacking. So it's rather ostrichism to expect a long chain link to work when the rest of the rings remain extremely weak. Equally important is the fact that there is still a lack of timely and institutional consultation, which could have prevented the serious weaknesses of this bill. We cannot legislate without a priori being heard, nor should we be afraid of dialogue, nor should we consider that, with a hearing of bodies of a number of hours, and since the bill has been submitted to the vote, we are covering the task of thorough and timely consultation with all the parties involved. I have heard you, Mr Tsironi, say that the consultation takes place adequately and, indeed, bring as an example you spend 60% of your time with farmers. Rather, in your government you do not consider what institutional consultation means, continuous institutional consultation with farmers and an integrated consultation, which must be done throughout the period. No one disputes that you may be talking to farmers for hours. But this must also be done with their bodies, with their proposals and this must take the institutional form, which really helps to listen to farmers and to reconcile the changes that they need.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u246	I'm talking to their agencies, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u247	I mean, not at individual meetings, Mr. Cironi. I think we understand. Individual meetings do not produce a result in the interests of farmers, but produce a result in the interest of specific groups. This is not the objective of the collective interest and the national interest that we must have. Equally important, of course, are many issues which I shall be telling you next, because we in the Democratic Union are the most important area for a holistic approach to the agricultural sector, which is a key pillar of the development of the national rural economy. What are the key issues to avoid any fragmentary measures? What are the key issues for the agricultural sector? What about strengthening the production process through the maximum possible absorption and utilisation of Community funds? There's nothing going on. The rapporteur for the Democratic Integration has told you at first, Minister, that you often say that the aid in our country is twice as large as some European Union countries and has brought you some examples of what you have said in public. First question: From whom have these doubled in 2012-2014, the EUR 20 billion for the common agricultural policy, of which EUR 6 billion is for the Rural Development Programme and the rest of Pillar I of the CAP? Secondly, is your government going to negotiate with these arguments in Brussels? Are you really telling the partners that subsidies in our country are twice as high as the countries of the European Union? Unless you think everything you say here in our country has no impact on anyone and there is no problem about it. At the same time there are other major issues for the agricultural sector affecting the bills, which come and are being discussed. What about the farmers' tax system? We have told you repeatedly that what has been done in recent years with your Government is essentially the tax elimination of farmers. Not to mention the same examples that we have discussed here many times in the House. There is no fair tax system. At the same time, there is no infrastructure for intensifying controls on the market for the radical treatment of Greekisations. We in any positive way also say yes to these positive arrangements, which you are bringing. However, we are telling you that it cannot function and deal with this system unless specific regulations and measures are adopted throughout the whole system. What are the measures to reduce the cost of production? These are the challenges for a Ministry of Rural Development, to which you have not responded. What about applied research and innovation? Why is there no substantial intervention to improve the import balance of meat and milk? Why are there not genuine incentives to promote new modern and strong collective structures? What about the integrated water management policy? It is a big issue, which is also about how the crop is to be restructured in relation to the advisory structures for farmers. It is a time-consuming problem that no money is used, which is there. While there is four-fold money in this period for consultative structures that have been guaranteed, you do not absorb them and you have not created these advisory services to be absorbed. What about the insurance company? No modern insurance system exists. The opposite is seen in the insurance system all the years of your administration. The policy of land with financial incentives to set up farmers does not actually exist. As far as agri-oil is concerned, you have not accepted our proposal and you have not negotiated. If you have negotiated with the partners and refused, your Government will inform either Mr. Tsakalotos or you. The agricultural oil card, which we have requested, as is the case in other European Union countries, could in fact in a fair way provide agricultural oil, for which you have been elected on the basis of crops. We have tabled this amendment to you since 2015. You have told us that this is a matter with the partners and we have to negotiate. Are you negotiating? Did they tell you no? To inform the Greek Parliament and the Greek people and farmers if they have not accepted the agricultural oil card or if you do not choose the alternative to provide cheaper agricultural oil to those who really deserve it. I really thought, ladies and gentlemen, that perhaps the Prime Minister in his luggage for the tours he has started, as something should have promised, to cover general and specific shortcomings of the government and the election promises made. Yesterday he was in Larissa, at the Regional Development Conference, which I think you were from the Ministry of Rural Development, for rural development. So I see a number of points here on the agricultural sector, which I would like to comment on. It says attributes that “the model has been assessed that brought us to the crisis by 2009”. It is right that the distorted consumer model should be changed with a healthy productive growth model. At the same time, however, it does not tell us why it is continuing with the pathogens of the past on certain issues and on the distorted consumer model. He's giving no answer. Mr Tsipras said that "we had an explosion in investment in the Greek economy". It says precisely the word "explosion" to investment. Has anyone seen her and really can document her with evidence of this explosion in investments? I would like you to answer then on behalf of SYRIZA to tell us where you see these investments, because I think the exact opposite is true: we have no investment interest. I have to tell you that the investment interest is lower. Essentially, investors are leaving our country. The Prime Minister also said that "growth creates stable and decent jobs". The figures we see about jobs are that part-time jobs are being created, that these jobs are being increased, that there is underemployment. We see, however, the very opposite elements, that unemployment indicators may decrease slightly, but in fact the jobs that exist are most part-time, that is to say, exactly the opposite. Mr Tsipras said that 'on completion of the conference cycle in thirteen regions, we will set up the National Development Plan'. It has been over two and a half years, and now in Larissa, Mr. Tsipras said that the National Development Plan will be established after the thirteenth conferences. Do we have elections and speak as Chief of the opposition officer? Such a speech reminds us of the fact that they should now answer what is happening tomorrow. Farmers have problems, and I think we all agree that the government should give solutions to the practical issues, in addition to a visionary policy that it may have. What are these solutions? None! At the same time, he referred to the structural weaknesses in the primary sector, for which nothing has been done to correct them, to renew the rural population through the support of young farmers. The Youth Farmers Programme has not advanced these years. Now you tell us that the procedure will proceed, but it has not gone through these two and a half years. I do not think there is any doubt about that. He talked about collective labour schemes and at the same time about rationalising the functioning of the agricultural market and consumer protection. Minister, have you not said many times that opening the price shear in our country remains huge? Is it true or isn't it? It's 1: 7.5, you said, huge opening. Has it been reduced? It hasn't been reduced. Aren't you responsible as a government for two and a half years that hasn't been reduced? Who should answer that? The Opposition? Another point is the development of research and innovation, which the Prime Minister says, saying he found in Larissa that there are genuinely pioneer companies. He found it in Larissa, like he said. I think that these pioneers, innovative rural enterprises, which exist throughout Greece, should be a model rather than a discovery now, but this whole time you should have gathered them and tried to create standards of such businesses, without firm state embrace. Of course, he also spoke of the absorptions for the Rural Development Programme. You're talking about commitments, about the notices you've made. You're not talking about absorbing. You should start to see what is going on, because they are not going to go the way the absorptions should be, and why they are not moving the programme at a faster pace, where the bureaucratic weaknesses exist, to resolve them, and not just to talk about the commitments that you know very well, and you know that I know that they are not a sign of real progress. Not to mention other things. I would just like to say to you, Minister, that I read that you said in your speech in the region, in Karditsa I think, and in the tax and insurance of farmers. I think it is clear that both the tax and the insurance of farmers and of all Greeks are the main problems of your Government, and it is not the issues that you have to say that you have taken better action. You have not made any improvements on all these issues. As far as the specific issues of the bill are concerned, I believe that the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration has covered them. Finally, I should just like to say that two and a half years ago Mr. Tsipras said that he needed - and he must - "there must be cheap oil, cheap electricity, liquidity in the producer". Liquidity is another important issue that does not exist today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u248	How isn't there? Don't go crazy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u249	'It is not possible', he said, to reconstruct the rural economy, without cheap electricity and oil.' Cheap current doesn't exist. "We can't afford a tax," he said, "to the shipowners and farmers to pay." You know, this is where Abraham Lincoln's case fits, that you can't make fun of a lot of people for a long time. Maybe you can make fun of many for a while and a few for a long time, but not many for a long time. Today we see Mr. Tsipras flying in F-16 and in the military uniform.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u250	And that bothers you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u251	I don't know if you fly with F-35 and buy them after all, because Mr. Kammenos wanted it and you do all the favours of your "collector". "Makari," says President Dimitrios Kammenos. I do not know whether this is an answer to the government. However, I would say that, instead of making such moves, the government should finally understand that it needs solutions to the problems. We can't move like this. Specific actions are needed with a clear targeting and holistic approach. We must listen to the farmers and we must at least agree here to all the Members - I mean the democratic parties - that it is the agricultural sector that can get the country out of the crisis. Why? Because we need to be productive in order to overcome the crisis. We have the potential in the agricultural sector. There is something else in the agricultural sector and you must be lucky about the three ministers you are in the ministry. You have money, almost 20 million euros, while all the other ministries at the moment have no money. Take advantage of this money, at least, to create a different production model in our country, without the passions of the past! That's the bet for you, but it's not just a bet for you, it's a bet for the country, to be able to overcome the crisis. Otherwise, we will keep talking, even if we face up to the holes on a temporary basis, on a number of issues, on memoranda and new measures, which cannot get the country out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much Mr. Theocharopoulos. The Deputy Minister, Mr Chironis, has the floor and immediately after Mr Kokkalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Clearly, in consultation on beekeeping for the first time - and ask the beekeepers themselves - 100% of the operators, printers, producers, traders, everyone participated. In the aquaculture consultation - read FISHING NEWS - 100% of operators participated. There has been no body in animal production that has not been involved in the consultations, at least in terms of my competence. Let me tell you something else. The bill in its institutional consultation was from April 24th, from April 24th, than I was informed. If the period from 24 April is not sufficient time for institutional consultation, then I wonder what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u255	Give me a minute more, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u256	All right, Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u257	Minister, I am not talking about specific matters, as you can see. I say that the consultation should take place with institutions and should be stable. We must institutionalise what you do not do and which lies with the Minister in question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u258	I proved we're doing this!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u259	Minister, listen, I heard you carefully. I could bring you many examples to your ministry, which you should answer. For example, I hear that there has been a regulation from the researchers of the ETHE who asks to enter, like all other research institutes, the law regulation. Nor do you respond to that in the other ministries. I don't know if it's your responsibility or the minister. I say, however, that all these issues are not answered. Perhaps the Minister knows - and I mean for the NRAG and the researchers - why they don't join the law. If you have any answers to that, please give it to us. Anyway, I'm not going to go into any other issues. What I am saying is that consultation must be permanent, so that we can have answers on all these issues and also be institutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u262	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u263	We cannot turn the whole debate into such a serious bill into a parliamentary work. Finally! We've been talking about it sometimes!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u264	Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Tsironi, Mr Apostlelos, when there are no arguments for a draft law in fact, voices will necessarily be heard, such as that there are no consultation, there will be voices of philosophers, poets. Firstly, no one called into question and did not claim that in the two years of governance we have solved all the problems in the agricultural sector that you have created. Let's get this straight. As far as the bill is concerned, no one disputes that this bill is moving in a very right direction and that to a large extent it solves two issues relating to the primary sector. One is Greekization, and the other is the protection of agricultural income. In this Chamber most of us agree and will the bill be passed, but will Mr Javarras be missing? - "Drop the glove" and I have to pick it up. Let us see now who protects agricultural income, who seeks to protect agricultural income and who does not, let us see it in practice. Mr Javarras accused us of the fact that the law that we brought to Parliament is not right, it is unsatisfactory and that the producers are more interested in whether they are paid and when they will be paid. In 2013, gentlemen of the Opposition, Mr. 4152/2013 was voted. By this law the then government - I think it was the New Democracy and the PASOK - wanted to resolve the problem of late payments, which we are voting on today. He wanted to solve it. Here's what this law provided for, which, I am sure, was, in passing, incorporating a Community directive. It authorised the conclusion of contracts beyond the time-limit laid down by the law. The law that will be passed today is compulsory law. It provides that in sixty days the producer must have been paid, otherwise any agreement between the parties is void. The question is simple: To compare the two laws? In 2013 who protects the producer's income? The 2010 French Commercial Code provides for a 30-day period, the Italian, the Spanish, the same. In fact, it provides that any agreement between the parties is void. And he comes from this party and says that this bill does not protect, that it is not right. For Christ's sake! Is that possible? L.4152 of 2013 failed, because it did not in fact protect. What is the innovation of this law? It obliges the producer - it actually makes him a party - to be activated and notified of the non-payment. Mr Javarras also said that the matter is not when it will be paid, but whether it will be paid. Indeed, he said, manifestly and in a way, 'can you ensure that this check is paid'? Is it possible to choose the contractor? Can we tell the farmer that "sold to him" why is he likely to be a liar? We protect the transaction itself. But he also mentioned Law 3424/1955. However, labelling is correct, but this law only defines criminal sanctions. Is the question of bringing the farmer to the courts to receive the price or protection in advance? That is what is being asked, and that is what they have to see - and they have understood - farmers. To force them to go to the courts, to engage in cost-effective and time-consuming procedures to collect, if they will receive - because, in fact, the proposal that has been heard was - or to protect in advance, as most European countries themselves, the same transaction. I think the answer is a one-way street. I shall conclude, Mr President. I think that this bill should be voted on in both articles and at the outset by all the parties, because it really gives an important solution, a key blow first of all to Greekism and an important solution to the protection of agricultural incomes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Red. I would ask my colleague from SYRIZA, Mr. George Papaliou, to take the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the regulations of this bill, Greek products are being guaranteed by arable Greekisms, quality assurance of Greek products against unfair competition practices and, in general, protection of the interests of farmers, farmers and consumers. In particular, the provisions of the first chapter seek to protect Greek production and the Greek producers and in this context to restore the fundamental balance between producers and traders by eliminating the effects of unjustified and manifestly abusive conditions imposed by traders on the producers, phenomena which benefit from the long-term delays in the payments of the fresh and vulnerable products of the agri-food chain. The disposal of fresh and vulnerable products to the final consumer requires that it be completed as soon as possible because of the nature of the products, and of course, it is linked to the immediate payment of the consumer's price. To date there have been considerable delays in the reimbursement of tariffs between producers, namely farmers and small and medium-sized processors and wholesalers, distributors or retail chains. The provisions of Law 4152/2013, by which Greek legislation was adapted - by questioning - to the Euro-Union directive on combating late payment in trade, have not proved effective in practice to deal with the phenomenon in the sensitive national, social and economic sectors of the production of fresh and vulnerable agricultural products, since they have allowed contracts to be concluded with a contractual payment deadline higher than those provided by law. This general provision for transactions, which by their very nature do not justify long periods of payment, has led to the opposite effect on what the directive appears to be seeking. The unduly long repayment of the producer and small and medium-sized processors has resulted in and resulted in financial hardship, even extreme, and indirect financing of wholesalers and retail chains, which, by benefiting from increased liquidity, are the result of their negotiating power, use the money withheld for easy financing their own activities. Thus, the provisions of the first chapter of the draft law regulate the obligation of the trader of fresh and vulnerable agricultural products, which trades with a producer issuing an invoice, to pay the invoice within sixty days of his issue, expressly excluding any possibility of exceeding the time of payment, i.e. any other agreement to the contrary between the parties, as was the case to date. The definition, as the date of commencement of the payment deadline, the date of issue of the invoice is in favour of the producer and contributes to the reduction of the time of its payment. In addition, there is particular provision for administrative penalties for non-compliance with these regulations, such as the imposition of fines established as public revenue, to be collected in accordance with the provisions of the CEDEFOP and constitute revenues of the Agricultural and Cattle Fund, and even the deletion of trade from the existing Single Register of Traders of Agricultural Products. The second chapter introduces the obligation to label the origin of milk and milk as the main ingredient of processed dairy food, pre-packaged or not, thus satisfying a consistent request from Greek producers to protect them through transparency by Greekisations and generally unfair trade practices. The label shall contain particulars for the country of agglomeration, the country of processing and the country of packaging. Thus, consumers and producers are provided with a secure legal framework for the development of consumer and production practices, which in the medium term will ensure consumer confidence in Greek dairy products and give impetus to Greek production and overall growth in the national economy. With regard to compulsory labelling of origin - of origin in meat, in order for the consumer to have complete information, traceability rules are required at all stages of the production and distribution of meat, from slaughter to packaging, to ensure a correlation between meat and the animal from which the meat is derived. Greece, as an deficit country, particularly in beef and pigmeat, is affected by unfair trade practices on the part of its competitors, which affect not only consumers but also farmers. The provisions of this Legislation set out specific obligations at the retail stage, in addition to other specific obligations relating to all stages of the marketing and movement of meat, such as the obligation to indicate the type of meat, the country of origin, the country of rearing and the country of slaughter and the exact weight of the product sold in the documents issued by any tax electronic mechanism (the fiscal machinery, the tax printers) in addition to the existence of an autonomous financial processing unit, a specific secure data marking device and others. Thus, the consumer will have the possibility of knowing exactly what he buys through the information contained in the retail receipt, but also the competent audit authorities, through the obligation to take into account the printing of reference sheets from the electronic system. They will be able to balance the quantities purchased through the purchase invoices with the actual quantities sold through invoices and receipts. Because of a short time, I will not go into the provisions which amend the provisions of the Fisheries Code. I would like to stress something that has been said by many previous speakers. Without a doubt, control over the implementation of all these regulations, but also control mechanisms that exist and are being created, are important parameters in order to serve the objectives for which they are laid down. Of course, it is well known that there is a problem with public administration. However, important steps have been taken to curb bureaucracy, but above all to change the culture of public administration. The problem is there. I think there is an intention, but there is also government moves to deal with and improve the situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am ending by saying that the country's socially just productive reconstruction is the primary sector, the production of agricultural and livestock products, combined with their processing and certification. In this context, the movement and marketing of these fresh and vulnerable products is an integral part of the supply chain from production to consumption. As a consequence, its reassurance is an element that protects and benefits the producer, the consumer and the Greek production, in particular the quality of its products which are differentiated due to soil and climate conditions and are in many areas higher than its competitors. I mean, one last thing. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of regulations takes precedence over the implementation of a law adopted. So the claim that the law is not to be implemented - do you imply, gentlemen, that the bill should not be passed? - it is self-esteeming expectation, unfortunately, when it is formulated by the Opposition, as this is always done with all the bills, with which you agree, but at the end you end up in other kinds of decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u268	Thank you very much Mr. Papaliou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the 7th Municipal School of Agrinio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister Chironis has a legislative improvement, and I would ask him very much to read it to us. Then we shall proceed to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. The legislative proposals relate to the amendment to the producer markets. Because there was a legal difficulty for the producers' markets in conventional products - there was a conflict with popular markets - from the Government Secretariat we decided in this bill to have only the organic markets. So the legal improvement is that they are no longer general producer markets. It is only about the organic markets. And the rest of the piece will come to the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy's bill for all the outdoor markets and the populace. There is also a legislative improvement in the amendment to the meat schools. There was a need to correct. Because it is also retrospective, because the schools were running, their programmes have to be submitted last year. The recognition of course takes place. And a verbal correction is made, not only by the Ministry of Education, but, as the law provides, by the Ministry of Education. Finally, with regard to the article on the PESF, Article 6 or the repeal of Article 14, that is, there is a nickname. It is a simple numbering - there is no difference - in the first paragraph: Articles 1 to 4 and 6 to 16, 18 and 19a - that is a correct numbering - of Law 4015/2011, as in force, except in paragraph 2 that is Article 14, which has been repealed since its entry into force. So there's a small counting, which was imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u270	Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be consistent in my time. The draft law we are debating today puts into the heart of critical issues which are chronic pathogens of the entire agricultural movement and marketing system. The arrangements proposed for voting, for the first time, support the rural world, the people of everyday labour, the people of the primary production sector, and not those who are now diluting labour and agricultural incomes. Finally, a class enters the unconscious market for decades when it comes to payment times. Consumers and producers are also protected against illegal Hellenism. The first chapter sets out in detail the incorporation, but in particular the implementation of the European Directive 2011, of delays in payments of susceptible products. I think that the implementation is being regulated, because the formal incorporation of the European directive has been carried out since 2013 with Law 4152 on the Government of New Democracy - PASOK, but no measures have been taken to implement it. Why? Because of course the two parties that went bankrupt the country and its people did not have the boldness, but above all the political will to annoy the great interests and to break the vicious circle of market immunity, speculation against farmers and consumers. And we have reached a point where the European Union is threatening us for measures against our country, as it wanted to put it both in Italy and Slovakia and in Spain, to ensure that the directive on the fight against late payments is properly implemented. I'm coming to the second chapter of the bill. I know, firsthand, how painful it is for a producer to pay back a sensitive product after a hundred or twenty days or more, while merchants and, in particular, big businesses, supermarket chains are paid by consumers in cash, directly. The reduction in payment time will significantly help the liquidity, financial management and support and development of agricultural production, particularly in the difficult economic conditions that we are experiencing today. And I move on to the issue of Hellenism, which is a carcinoma in the primary sector, which dissolves the national production base, feeds, recycles the huge circuit of illegal, virtual invoices, deceives consumers, compresses to a degrading degree the producer price, steals revenues from the public and blows quality products, such as PPPs and BEIs, and first of all, the heavy artillery of our products, the Greek feta. The mandatory labelling of the origin of milk includes a product, packaging, and puts a brake on all these distortions. The effective implementation of traceability and its extension to all stages of production and marketing, strict controls, electronic registration, animal trafficking, slaughterhouses and customs, controls on importers of milk and meat are among the top, decades of demand for the agricultural movement, which has claimed them for years and especially for farmers. We are doing so, when you have not made a reliable livestock, veterinary database, you have not produced and contributed to a perforated system, supposedly control and balance of milk and meat, when all the livestock farmers knew and were shouting that there is a party of illegal imports of Greek products that eliminates them financially. For us, SYRIZA, support for livestock farming is a top priority, not only for the country's food adequacy and for reducing the national economic haemorrhage of imports, but because it alone supported and continues to support the mountain and disadvantaged areas of our country, and it can be the steam engine that will move the correction and development of the primary sector and the countryside. This is our project at all conferences and the coalition and SYRIZA. And with this draft law, we prove it in practice. I don't have time to expand to the rest of the chapters and the other articles. I will only say a few words about the agricultural cooperatives. I will not repeat that the cooperative movement in our country has been discredited in the awareness of farmers. The responsibilities of those who have commanded, but also of all the governments and parties, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, who have ruled are enormous, because from a weapon to the hands of the farmers they have become a man of corruption, of complexity and the takeover of votes and consciences. We believe in the value of cooperation. We promote and support the social economy and prove it in practice. We started with No.4384/2016. We are now moving on to some necessary improvements, especially to ensure a reliable register to save the assets created by their sweat generations and generations of cooperative farmers. We will give back breath and value to collectiveness and co-operation, we will cleanse the "breast of August". In time, I was probably well read. I have another clarification to make. I want to read a text of '93 that we wrote about Acheloos and we were talking about Acheloos's works. In fact, the Prime Minister promised that irrigation would not be reduced. And then - and I want to read it to you - we wanted to make use of it, because these projects could be put into European funding programmes and we said 'the enrichment of underground aqueducts with Carla's reopening. That's 1993. Carla's still not ready to water and irrigate the campus. The biggest problem is that the aquifer has fallen. So the big problem we are going to face, Minister, is to recover this. A warm request to those who say about Acheloos. They lie about Achelous, because they haven't made a single metre of closed circuits to distribute the water. The largest work of Acheloos is the water distribution networks. If you don't do one measure for the distribution of water, you're lying. That's clean. So, Minister, we made a commitment and the Prime Minister said that we need to look at these two major issues. All the more for the lakes and the tanks we'll do. The Prime Minister has committed himself and after comrade Tsipras has been committed, we are obliged to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u272	And Lake Carla.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u273	And Lake Carla.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u274	SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Xydakis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u275	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this is a day of regularity for parliamentary life today, after what we have experienced in the previous legislative resolution, the law on gender identity and not on gender change, such as pineapple and all too often there is this terrible impression, which shows our own weakness, that of Members of Parliament and of the political system and journalists, that we distinguish things, that we read texts, that we show the wisdom of names and that we do not go ahead with the terrible confusion, because the confusion brings misery and leads to these sad headlines that we have seen yesterday. And confusion and blurredness continue, despite the important step, the historic step taken yesterday on a matter of society, on a matter of human life. Parliament stood up and did its duty. He humiliated, heard, heard and honoured both parliament and democracy and the notion of charity and human solidarity through democracy. Colleagues here have heard some suggestions about the political shocks caused by this law. I would like to support them because, as far as the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the majority of the government are concerned, I think it has come out louder, stiffer and meticulous politically than this. Very strong, very blossoming and much more thought. On the contrary, in other parliamentary groups, we distinguished the permanent withdrawal, the liquidation and some very sad images within the plenary session. Another picture we had during the debates in committee and another picture we saw in plenary: bad words, theatrical plays of poor people, and the political situation of the groups that did not have a firm position at the outset and a stable conversation with society and social needs was injured. On the occasion of today's debate, however, and as it has evolved in committee, with a wealth of arguments and techniques and policies and with a deeper recognition of the needs of the Greek economy, of Greek production and of the people who support it and of the people who live in this place, we see that there are areas of converging and converging. I wouldn't say any coincidences or absolute agreement. There are areas where the political argument applies, it works, and knowledge, even in specific fields, helps in opinion, in an integrated view. And I am not happy with the unanimity or the conclusion, I am pleased that one person is going to be a member of the other and with the exchange of an argument. I am pleased that the Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Javaras from New Democracy, in a humiliating dialogue with the Minister on two questions that the Minister has asked him, yes, we are on this track because it also shows political broadliness and a political bravery. It shows that we are doing our part, our mission, doing what they have sent us in here, taking responsibility for argument and thought. I would just like to reply to Mr Theocharopoulos, who is unfortunately absent at the moment, who has spoken in a decent manner. However, he had his opposition peaks. Its political space is in a liquidity and a dynamic. It is perfectly legitimate what he says, but he has left gaps and inaccuracies. All this effort being made, and the development conferences in the regions and the constant exodus of the productive ministers near the production sites, close to the people, by transferring what they themselves have to offer, taking increasingly - the most important - feedback and thoughts and needs and concerns from the citizens, shows that we have now pressed the bottom of this long, long-term crisis and shows that the dark is still deep, but we are starting to hope and look for the way out. We also have the numbers. I am starting with the assumption that the numbers, of course, are uniquely provoked by people, how we will change everyday lives, how we will change the daily expectation, and above all how we will give back a spirit, a courage and a new spiritual plan in a Greece that has been too tired of the long-standing crisis, tired too spiritually and mentally, tired of waiting, tired of being wronged, tired of destroying younger generations, and often - we must recognise it in this Chamber - he is tired of believing in the forces of democracy. And that's why we're here to show that democracy has the powers, it's the only repository, the only tank from which we'll draw power as a society to get back out. Of course people are provoking, so, but numbers are comforting. These are signs, there are some fireflies in this darkness of the long-term crisis. Mr. Theocharopoulos spoke of growth and investment. Let's look at the official figures of the Ministry of National Economy, which are based in turn on elements of the Bank of Greece, IOBE. I see Mr. Theocharopoulos is here and he will hear. They are therefore based on global economic forum indicators, above suspicion indicators, on measurable elements above any suspicion, composed in some images. I'll say very little of that. Direct foreign investment, for which so much is being done, compared to the corresponding period, in the first half of 2014, in 2017 we have an increase of 75%. It's 75% compared to the famous 2014 taking off the country. In 2017, then, we have an increase of 75% in foreign direct investment. It is 2.4 billion in the seven months if we add another month. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Overall, investments have increased by 2.7%. It's not enough to eject the economy, but it shows we're on our way. It's been the best evidence for many years. Exports have increased by 7.5% in this period, in the first half of the year. Even consumption showed some very cowardly signs of recovery. We also have the two hundred thousand jobs added to the 'ERGAN' system. Yeah, they're not all full-time jobs. Yes, it is part-time and there will be even more jobs when we make a fund from the tourist season, which is long-term jobs. But it's work. We need somewhere to get caught from somewhere to keep us from getting out of the way. What is happening this year, in the very difficult year, with the very difficult assumptions, with the surpluses for 2018, with the surplus, as calculated by the partners and we have signed it, with the surplus as the International Monetary Fund currently counts, which is more favourable to us - let us say this - shows that we are starting to enter a new historic phase, the recovery phase, at the beginning of the crisis, but in which we, too, and the citizens who follow us carefully and give us the due importance, as we allow them to give us, that the period of recovery, the period of the country's reconstruction, the period of social and political reconstruction in Greece will last long and will be severe and will want serious, arguments, commitments, convergences, where we must, and above all respect for the citizens who are watching us, thus respecting us here. I am pleased, too, for today's climate, for what is being exchanged, and I am pleased with the arguments made by the Minister in this House. I am delighted, in particular, with the difference in image from the previous debate, which also has its enormous symbolic importance, for the depth and quality of democracy and today's debate with its own weight on social reproduction material and the terms of national reconstruction. Because I note that everyone is voting, that you are all agreed, I will expect to see the vote of all colleagues who have spoken, argued, commented on reaching a composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u276	We continue with the next speaker, Mr. Simorelis Christos, from SYRIZA. Here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, I would not be able to stand as a Thessalonike, as a Trikalinite citizen, on this two-day day, we had until yesterday in Larissa, the fourth development conference, which was held under the responsibility of the government and the region. Hundreds of citizens, hundreds of operators took part in this weekend, in a fertile dialogue actually, during which they brought their proposals and expressed their concerns for the next day. The conclusion was that the model we had in the productive reconstruction of the primary sector led us to bankruptcy. So it is time to change and go to another logic, to a fair growth that society needs. All these days, there have been long discussions. The ministers also know that, for hours until midnight, they took part in them. But I wonder with my colleague from Larissa who said that this was all SYRIZA's finest. Really, these hundreds of institutions in Thessaly, which do not belong to SYRIZA, belonging to their area, were they really for festivals and participated in the SYRIZA fieste? Also, let me tell him about Acheloos: No more lies, no more this myth, no more this story that we had eaten in Thessaly for years, which for six times was rejected by the Council of State and was really in the way of those works that had to be done in Thessaly. And we did nothing less and nothing more these days in Thessaly than do works that are really mature and relate to water management in the Thessaly basin. And they're ripe plays. The dams of the Gate, the Neochorite in Farkadona, the Lethios, the Messochora dam, have all these suggestions to us, mayors that do not belong to us. So we can't say it was a timer. It was a really productive meeting. Now, as far as the bill that we are discussing is concerned, I do not understand from the Qualified Opposition, let me say what it ultimately proposes. Shall we continue with the old logic? Will he be voting in favour of all that we bring? One more thing. All I heard was some advice from the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, who is not here and while I avoid talking about people who are absent, I would like to say that I accept both criticism and advice. But let me say that political advice from political and political places that have brought our country into bankruptcy do not accept them. This Legislation of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food aims to regulate matters relating to the correct movement and course of fresh and vulnerable agricultural and livestock products. Coming from Trikala, a very agricultural prefecture, I am aware of the difficulties of producers and farmers and the delay in paying the invoices from the day the product is made available to the distributor. However, the disposal of these products to the final consumer is immediately completed because of their nature and the consumer himself pays directly for the goods he receives. Therefore, the delay in paying to the producer is not justified and brings him into a difficult financial position. I agree with the philosophy of the bill that recognizes the producer as a weak link of the chain. These delays that are being observed are trying to identify and cure the first part of the bill, laying down rules for the payment deadline, which excludes the overrun of normal time and provides for serious administrative sanctions. This is a practice that is being practiced throughout Europe and the state must at last protect these people with its institutional role. Let us note that these sanctions are not of a punishable nature, but seek to change a well-established mentality which has always been at the expense of the weak part of the transaction for years. With these regulations, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again standing at the side of the producer and farmer, as we have the political position that the backing of the negative course of the economy will only be achieved with the support of the real economy. The main pillar of the economy is the primary production sector. The goods produced by the Greek land are qualitative and can give us a competitive export advantage, which will improve the country's position in the economy. Improving the everyday life of farmers and their economic viability are essential. The provisions relating to the compulsory labelling of the origin of the milk, the processing and the packaging of milk are also in a very correct direction. It is something that the Greek society and the consumer movement are asking for and helps to ensure the quality and interests of the Greek dairy producers. In this way, products that are "baptised" greek and the control mechanism will be strengthened. The same applies to meat, especially beef and pork, which we largely import as a country. Because of the higher prices of Greek meat compared to imported meat we have seen some merchants baptising Greek foreign meat and selling it more accurately, stifling at the expense of both their industry and the local farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me conclude, Mr President. That's what needs to get an immediate end to it. The Ministry is therefore right to legislate in this direction and to strengthen the control mechanism and sanctions. I will also agree with a number of articles on farms, by modernising the institutional framework, which focus on the need to strengthen this productive sector and the use of European programmes. Any such action is only a positive sign in the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law that we are going to be voting on today, we are making a very old request for consumers: to know what meat they eat and what milk they drink. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to one more matter. We discussed this yesterday in both Trikala and at conference level. Several farmers raise a question and are concerned about the nitrate programme, which leaves all the farmers in Trikala outside. We need to see this. Also, a conclusion that came out of the conference is that we really need to go to another model of productive reconstruction in the country, especially in the primary sector. We know very well from those who know Thessaly that the human potential that we are saying is ageing. We must therefore give young farmers a 'road'. Because in the Trikala few are the ones left out of the program - the perpetrators are around the sixty people - we must also give them a 'road'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, seventeen students and students and two educational attendants from the Livata Fafitotis Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dannelis, a Parliamentary representative from Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by giving a reply to my dear colleague, Mrs Arabatzis, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, saying that in relation to the law, now, the state which deals with the homeland identity, the River has never given its vote to the government, because we are simply not determined, Madam President. On the contrary, New Democracy has left the line of political liberalism, which at least its Chief says is in favour. The river is still honoring its principles and values, without asterisks, footnotes or tacticalisms. We are not playing with minority rights. The consistent progressives don't play with them. Oh, no! The purpose, ladies and gentlemen, does not justify the means and Jesuits we are not. If our principles are sacrificed so that we do not disturb the Church and our conservative audience in the face of the conquest of power in a bill - take care - of the definition of an administrative act, do not mock the world as to how to change it. Mr Xydakis said just before he found ourselves to be an absolute weakness, of others, to face up to organised misinformation that has caused confusion in society. Because with the legislation before us, we have simply settled a huge problem with an administrative act which concerns very few people, but it is a problem of life for them and their families, not for the rest of us. Ladies and gentlemen, we must remember when - when the politician's work is not to mock the ears of society. The politician's job is to open up streets by persuading society for the correctness of its evenings. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we must feel that we must finally put brakes on the extremists instead of throwing water on their mill, on their virtue dealers, on the traders of patriotism, on the traders of religion, who are sharpening their knives and are next to us and constantly alive. Thus, according to yesterday's headline of the punctual smuggling, the "French HOURS", "the law that was passed yesterday - the day before yesterday on the identity of a leaf, was supported by a hundred forty-eight perverts" - us - "from a Chamber of Transition". In addition, on the same front page the editor calls the readers for wood to each sister. I wonder why the Prosecutor's office did not move directly and automatically, since categorically, apart from all the others, the anti-racist law is also violated. Why should the Minister for Justice ask the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay? Ladies and gentlemen, on another point I am going. This unfamiliar prank with Ruvikon, with the great spoiled children who lost a peculiar immunity until yesterday, and because of this peculiar immunity, they were increasingly escalating their expulsions, is an extremely dangerous case. They cannot think, like anyone, that they have the right to have an opinion on everything and that view is expressed by force. Violence, vandalism against public or private property, violence is not a political expression. Most of all, however, all this cannot be accepted by the orderly state, by the government, by the police, by the judiciary, considering it as a legitimate way of expressing an opinion. This story must end. Their courage and generalised confusion led them from tax to notarial offices and general secretariats of ministries to media facilities until yesterday they went to the Spanish Embassy. They entered the embassy wanting to express their opinion on such a serious and complex issue as the Catalan referendum. It would be a disgraceful joke if it did not threaten a diplomatic incident for our country, whose fear finally led to their persecution. And it's not just Ruvikon. For the most part, there have been pre-conflicts and violent threats in the university field. We have a complete misunderstanding of the term 'university asylum'. A week ago there was the dean and the dean council of the University of Patras. A few days earlier, posters across Athens indicated as fascist Panteios Professor Angelos Syrgos, calling for similar action against him. However, the fascism of those who, in fact, consider themselves to be first-line democrats in universities must end. The dreadfulness with which, unfortunately, the issue of the legality of universities is dealt with allows the extremists of every reason to be dismantled. And we're not just talking about legality. We are also talking about the safety of teachers, and also about students, who have an opposing view and who are also a large majority, obviously, of these enlightened so-called minority groups. I think it is time to review how we deal with all these issues concerning intra-university life. We must end up with all that takes us to the long and dark past and, in particular, the Left must close these open accounts, which are maintained by the idea of past years and wrong estimates. Democracy and much more progress has nothing to do with tolerance to violence and authoritarianism of minorities, of every minority, nor with the imposition that they want to exercise. This is fascism and it has nothing to do with the free expression of the different views. The asylum of universities is about protecting and ensuring the free exchange of ideas, including minority ones, and not about banning majority opinions from dynamic and violent minorities. On the draft, Directive 7/2011 on repayment within sixty days of the invoices or consignment note for agricultural products, unfortunately, did not have any effect on the Greek producers, because Law No 4152/2013, which incorporated it into national law, provided for the exception made as a rule, i.e. the ‘unless they decide’ clause brought the producer to such a devastating position in relation to the trader, so it did not work positively but only in a few cases. Well, nowadays we are tightening up the existing law, also referring to the spirit of the European directive. It remains, of course, Minister, to prove that there will be effective monitoring and thus to ensure that it is implemented, because in this heterogeneous relationship the weak is the producer. The full traceability, identification of milk and meat products is also very important. In the European Parliament, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Rural Development has been trying and fighting for years to ensure that Member States adopt this traceability and identification of milk and meat products. It is also very important for producers, but also for consumers, that is to say for all of us. For the crime of Acheloos, who I was an old boy, and together we gave twenty years ago matches, I wish this time, Minister, to reconcile effectively with reality and with logic. A lot of unreturned destruction has occurred and a lot of resources are being wasted, which we will not have the opportunity to have again, has taken place. Finally, Minister, it would be very useful if, apart from your usual interlocutors from the productive world, apart from the representatives or those who say representatives of the rural world, including those who, in such difficult circumstances, find the way of production, quality and prerogatives, that is to say, the representatives of a parallel Greece, who are well aware that they do not seek aid or exemption. They call for an improvement in the terms of the enterprise. And I think it would be extremely useful to include the representatives of these producers in your interlocutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u280	Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said in this Chamber so far by people who, unfortunately, think that the rural area is so easily forgotten. Over the last few years a dismantling of agricultural production has evolved in our country, in line with the dismantling of the rest of the economy. The application of the neoliberal model of concentration of means of production in a few hands has also been aggressively applied to agricultural production, leading to small and medium-sized farmers outside the production system and to a disinvestment. The structural characteristics of Greek agriculture, accompanied by the small scale of the lot, the age range of agricultural workers, mountain and island relief, were not taken into account in the practically non-existent policy making. On the contrary, the catastrophic choices towards cooperation in the agricultural sector, coupled with the implementation options of the Common Agricultural Policy, with the main feature of maintaining historical rights as a criterion for allocating subsidies, have adversely affected the weaker and younger of our farmers. If one takes into account the loss of liquidity following the sale of the Agricultural Bank, one has a full picture of the situation in which the agricultural sector was at the start of the crisis. In short, intrusions into strong cooperatives without funding, without a strong political will and direction, given the structural problems of agricultural production. One understands what situation our country's primary production sector was received by the current government in 2015. Thus, the strong advantage of producing quality products on a small local scale has been lost. Producers of local products based on the quality ensured by the Greek countryside with the unique flora and variety of endemic species such as feta, production of sheep and goatmeat, production and standardisation of olive oil, honey, aromatic plants and oils, pulses and a number of other local products can be a strong advantage from a disadvantage considered in the models of neoliberalism. With such a framework, therefore, SYRIZA and the current government are consistently formulating, but also visionary, a coherent political proposal that moves on the opposite side of both neoliberal European choices and national choices, as they were made by 2014. Such a political proposal in the European area should primarily aim to overthrow the logic of the current common agricultural policy and, first and foremost, to lift or at least to normalise the injustices it causes. At the same time, our policy is on broad axes and specialisations, including the organisation of farmers in democratic, participatory forms, support for livestock farming, increased value added and support for imports and ensuring liquidity in the primary and manufacturing sectors. So today's draft law along with Law No.4384/2016 is two legislations that have come to respond exactly politically to all four axes. Of course, with the parliamentary amendment to cooperatives, we shield cooperative movements by closing any legal holes. I would ask the Minister to accept it. Our aim is to re-establish the necessary shield, especially for small farmers, and to ensure the necessary liquidity for their living and financing their production. In the first chapter of the bill, we are faced with the increasingly frequent unfavourable position of producers of fresh and vulnerable products. Producers are very often in the unfavourable position of actually financing their own system of handling and marketing their products, while they are deprived of valuable and unreasonable liquidity these days. So there is also the amendment tabled for the producers' markets - bio-growers now after the legislative improvement - which organic farming operators have long welcomed and waited for. For the purpose of applying the benefits of today's law we are discussing are two preconditions: the first condition is that of the producers themselves, to defend the institutional framework. The second condition is that there should be sanctions for the offenders and their implementation. Of course, we welcome the inclusion in Annex I of products, such as dairy derivatives and meat products, as we have requested and agreed on in committee. In the second chapter, our country, together with what has been proclaimed and achieved by other countries in Europe and the South, introduces the compulsory labelling of milk products. Thus, both in milk and in milk products, the Greek consumer can know the origin of milk and choose it, knowing that it has been produced in our country by Greek farmers. The consumption of Greek milk and its products is looking forward to boosting Greek production and our exports at a time that is crucial for livestock farming. With corresponding regulation for meat, a comprehensive labelling and consumer information system for meat with traceability rules can be established at all stages of the production process by closing this part after the slaughterhouse. In this way, the consumer will be able to know exactly what he is buying, through the information on the retail receipt, but also the competent audit authorities will be able to determine the origin of the meat. These provisions therefore protect the producer's misinformation from the shamefulness of traders - a few, we believe in the market, but it is true that there is - but above all they protect Greek farmers from unfair competition on their backs, their labor and their work from so-called Hellenism. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Prime Minister from Larissa pointed out yesterday, the country's productive reconstruction is the greatest task of our government. The development of national policy by highlighting the comparative advantages of the place and the protection of productive forces is being implemented by this government - step by step. So we are overcoming the sufferings of the past and building the next fruitful day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u282	Mr Ioannis Antoniadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u283	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin here I would like to call on the hidden Minister of Education, Mr Gavroglou, to withdraw the shameful provision, which allows teachers who have closed 15 years in the region to be able to emigrate to the University of Thessaloniki and Attica. This means to the universities in the region a tombstone. That is why I also call on the MPs, regardless of parties, all the parliamentarians in the region, as well as I have sent a letter to the Administrative Councils, the Committee of Regions and the Central Association of Municipalities, all together to force the Minister to take this provision back, which abolishes the provision of Mrs Diamantopoulou's 2011 law, which prohibits the migration and movement of teachers to the universities of the centre. Does Mr Gavroglou want to remain as Minister of the Necropsy of the universities in the region? Of course, all of this is done to serve the wife of his Secretary-General, Mr Angelopoulos, who has already made the application to go to Thessaloniki and with it there are already over two hundred lecturers who want to leave. Mr Apostlelos, I heard you this morning in the timely question on the issue of young farmers in western Macedonia. I hope that you will keep the floor because unemployment is high and that all the participants in the programme will be included. And it goes without saying that we will see to it that all these aids are used and not just stay there. Also, my view - and I think most of them - would be that fishing matters could come with a self-legislative bill and not enter here with half-measures. There could also be one such time for consultation, so that you could give some solutions to the problems that exist. I would like to ask you what is going on with the three irrigation pending for the Florina, the Triantafyllia, Parrio and the Prespecies. Also, what everyone recognized is that it clearly has much positive effect on this bill. What is important, however, if we really want to help the rural world, Mr Minister, is the issue of taxation, the issue of agricultural oil and, of course, the issue of low insurance contributions and a reduction in costs, as regards pesticides, fertilisers and all the related costs. I am closing this small speech by saying that I hear from time to time - Mr SYRIZA's colleague has left - that there will be no answers. Everyone is saying that 'we are not going to account, we are going to respond to those who led the country to bankruptcy'. The crisis has brought bankruptcy. The country spent 40 better years all of its political life. You yourself said that you were against the memorials. The memorials exist and it is the crisis that brought the memorials. At last, deal with the real causes and give solutions, without escaping. I shall start by saying that it is in the positive direction that within 60 days, in accordance with Article 2, it is compulsory for the trader who supplies fresh and vulnerable agricultural products to repay the producer in these days and, of course, for any other agreement contrary to these provisions to be considered to be invalid. As we have said, the cheese grower - we have five hundred cheese shops - and, as you have promised, the question of supermarkets should be explicitly mentioned. I shall refer to sanctions and the fines procedure both to traders and to producers. The fines must be for everyone and, of course, the imposition of sanctions must follow a specific procedure, be imposed by the supervising competent authority, and no decision must be taken by the Minister who is in itself a bureaucratic process. In the same context, as regards the producer's obligation to transmit electronic data and documentation without delay, you realise that this creates an administrative burden, but also economic costs for the producer. It is also a question of compulsory labelling of milk. It gives an important advantage to Greek producers and the dairy industry. There are some microstrategic distortions which are created and we hope will be corrected. I would also like to turn to the issue of meat in a positive direction. It is, of course, reflected in the logic of the "Artemis" system that was up to the weighing machines. But now we're going to cash. Here the whole secret, as has been said by many colleagues, is the issue of controls, which will ultimately give the solution. Of course, we do not have to say that too, which checks, with which employees and what auditors, since we all know what the actual number is. It is worth noting that the issues of compulsoryity today on the milk and meat market also employ other states. The story has been reported. First it was France, followed by Italy, Portugal, Lithuania and others. I shall refer to the subject of the ELDR. We are clearly opposed here. If this reduction did not concern farmers who are and who pay the ELGA, we would have no problem. But it is not possible within the ELGA that farmers are not represented. Our proposal is the well-known one, one from SASHOE and one from PASPEGES. The issue of nitrate pollution has been raised by colleagues from all sides, and there is this danger with moleculosis and with all this staying outside the programme. I would like to conclude with the important issue of finished pesticides. I am in the positive direction for increased fines. Expiry pesticides should be bound and destroyed with expenditure borne exclusively by the person responsible for the infringement. We appreciate that nothing and no one is above public health. Citizens' health must be protected in every way and those who are against it punished. Extended pesticides are extremely dangerous both for users, namely our farmers, and for crops and the environment. Dangerous substances through the food chain can end up in the consumer's dish, putting public health at risk. No one is allowed to speculate against the health of citizens and the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u284	Thank you. I would ask the Minister in a short time to submit legislative improvements if they exist. The main point, however, is to consult Parliament's amendments if you intend to accept them or not. You don't have to answer me now. If you're ready, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u285	When the prototype process is completed, in order to enter the second part relating to secondary, amendments, etc., I shall refer to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u286	Minister, the procedure as it develops and based on the list is to speak another nine Members and to conclude. It is Mr Papachristopoulos from the Parliamentary Representatives and four others together and we are closing down with rapporteurs, speakers and the government's second-rate minister. So the Members and the House are not expecting your denunciation to say when and what you are accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u287	Do you want to see the Members complete?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u288	The Bureau has put a question, a request, if you wish to the Minister, at a reasonable time to announce what he is doing and whether he accepts the parliamentary amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u289	Whenever you wish, Mr President, I am at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u290	Good. After Mr Papachristopoulos we will give you the floor to announce any amendments. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u291	I'll start a little unorthodox. I would remind you that a parallel path with our country has been taken by Portugal. It's about a similar case. It was in the memorials, Portugal, and it came out. She came out before us. Recently in Portugal, municipal elections were held. Antony Costa, her Prime Minister, of the three hundred eight municipalities, already controls eighty-one. His party rate was 38.01%. On the contrary, Colio's rate was 16.8%. He best cashed in the polls the consistency with which he struggled to get the country out of the memorials and keep Portuguese society upright. What does it have to do with it? It's for me, big. I want to remind you that two days ago the National Bank came out on the market. Except nobody found out. So it opened up for three, four days, and while it asked for only EUR 500 million, it could take EUR 2 billion. He finally took 750 million euros at a rate much lower than what he predicted. I would also like to remind people here, in this Chamber and elsewhere, that pity has caught them: 'Never any house in a banker's hand. Some were playing revolutionaries every Wednesday in the auctions. So calm down, all of them. No residence - none - under 300,000 euros will be auctioned on the 29th day of the month. Did you hear that? You didn't hear that either. Let's go down. European Investment Bank, Junker package, ESRB: An investment orgasm is currently under way. We also heard incredible voices about Skouria. I want to remind everyone who reads that the global arsenal release standards are 0.8. The Squirrels were eight. They threatened, made and got to the point of saying here that Trido, Macron, had intervened, that he was being discussed at the Eurogroup. None of this happened. Eldorado has been transformed. The investment in terms of democracy continues. Let's go to the Greek. From morning to night they sabotage the investment, they do, they make. The Archaeological Museum did well. He did his job. Many SYRIZA MPs did well and had objections. Handmade example of using an investment when coexist and ancient is the Acropolis Museum. Whoever we visit, we'll see downstairs there'll be archaeological exhibits. The investment gains value. Also, those involved with the metro of Thessaloniki will find the same. What's nicer for the six thousand acres of three hundred acres to highlight this investment? It's progressing properly. I could talk whole hours about what this government is doing. Firstly, he is trying to end the third assessment, which is considered almost a given one, and that is why he has again raised the issue of quantitative relaxation by a man in the Board of the European Central Bank. It gives an extension for Greece to take advantage of it. The most important thing, though, is that everyone is now talking and saying that there will be a clean exit after ten months. That's where Antonio Costa's example fits. Instead, we heard yesterday that the Vice-President of the National Telecommunications and Post Committee - I heard it with my ears - was a consultant to the New Democracy Party and we all know that he and the president were an exclusive employment. We have heard the last few days - I am not telling you a hundred days ago or three months ago - that Mr Petropoulos the Undersecretary said that all those who had to pay and refer to private clinics, to great ones, have disappeared. Unbelievable. When they asked him "good, didn't he have copies?" He said they disappeared and the copies. And there was a typical SAD. That's not important. It's a tangible proof of how this country went bankrupt, because this government has been bankrupt. The GDP of 120% went 180% and all Greek citizens lost their fortune. The 325 billion, for which this government is not responsible, how has the country been loaded? And the worst of all, with which everyone is laughing, is that the market children, the market cigarettes that find jobs, etc., reached unemployment at 27%. He laughs at every bitter one! This reality has been managed by this government, and I think it is doing well. Difficulties? A lot of them! Is the world suffering? Still, yeah. I believe that sooner or later, however, the vindication will come, as it has come for Antonio Costa in Portugal. I do not want to go into the polls here. I have called on all of us to go together to shield their credibility. This nonsense that gave you 20, 19, 18 points of difference, forget them. You land in reality and let's shield the polls. We want, we are not opposed but in a proper way. I'm coming to today. I remember, I was a young boy when my village was blowing for life. It was unbelievable. I thought I was in the middle of the world. What a joy! Dougians, grains, milking the sheep at 04.00 in the morning, cutting the wood, taking care of the animals. Unbelievable image! The countryside has been devastated. Today, in this village, it is a question of living three, four families. Is that all the energy? Just transport? Just tourism? Just the services? Oh, no. It is also the primary sector that comes this ministry now with this bill, which I would like to remind you that for the first time in many years they have not shut down roads. Nobody wondered why the streets didn't close? I, on Isthmus, waited somewhere in the middle of winter when business, the known tyranny, stops. Ask yourself, why didn't the streets close? I'm not saying we did everything. We're making a huge effort. And say something? I am a little out of the question, but I will always say it, because I am one of those who have said the example of Estonia many times. Estonia was not even a country twenty-three years ago. It was a province of the Soviet Union, and today it runs with incredible growth, because it has acted on e-government. Did you get a load of what the government has done here? Did you get a hamper to set up a single stop operation, not six months with five hundred signatures, but in three, four weeks? Did you get the plastic money? Did you get the e-sign? There's a seminar going on in a few days down in Pallini. I would ask many of my colleagues to come and watch it. Even in this bill brought by the Ministry of Agriculture, there are the first signs of e-government. Those who read carefully will see that some merchants are punished. They have to enter electronic gates, see exactly who pays and what. I don't want to say much about the bill. It was nice first because there were mild tons. It's a bill that we should have done long. They weren't leaving us. The foolishness of Acheloos for the first time enters class. I will stand by the key points of this bill, which will actually make a piece of large unemployed youth - and we already see it - go back to the village. They're already doing it. Go ask, how many applications are there from young children from scientists? The countryside will relive. It's a big bet because our country was rural. The police and the wrong choices. I am not counting on responsibilities at the moment. Was it supposed to be? Oh, no. Are we supposed to sit down and see that we have the best products and other Greeks baptize them to decorate them? No, you guys. That's it. I don't want to say any more. I would like to stress one point, however, on what has happened - not today - to honour the quality of the Greek Parliament's debate that took place in this Chamber two - three days ago on the well-known bill. I just want to remind those who are careful and well-meaning, those who read international statistics will see that the majority of suicides are in families with transgender people. I leave the rest, it's about 300 percent compared to the rest. Guys their parents don't accept. These families, they themselves many times, behave badly in these children. And if families don't do it themselves, they do it, they do it in the environment, and they do it early in school. They don't have to make it to eighteen. A large part of it is parables and they are evicted into prostitution. Could we avoid that? Yeah. Let's give them the chance to get into life as well. I'm just speaking Greek, because I was listening to some hierarchs - thankfully not everyone - speaking extreme language. The Animos of Thessaloniki gave me a positive impression. I was impressed by the Bishop of Alexandroupolis. I still believe that the Archbishop does not belong to the charge of the extreme hierarchs. To let the hierarchs know it's another thing the Church and others who are hierarchs. It's something bigger. I'm a Christian Orthodox. I've returned all the monasteries in the country. I've been struggling for twenty-three years in Patmos for religious tourism. Yeah. I have a feeling it's a step that should have been done for years. I also do my self-criticism because I, in Article 3, voted for'represents'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u292	Minister, are you ready or can we give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Stylian?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u293	You decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u294	All right, Minister, tell us what legislative and legislative amendments you are accepting. Apparently you're ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u295	First of all, there are ministerial amendments. Two amendments were supported during the Committee's discussions. What was involved in the transitional provisions of the Ministry of Administrative Governance, the position of heads of state, etc., - I think there was an in-depth debate in the committee - is acceptable. The second amendment concerns the regulation of the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Agency. The State Secretary had come. It has been discussed, accepted. The third amendment, I would say, concerns a set of provisions relating to the issues of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. The first amendment, to which the Deputy referred, concerns the Meat School. The second amendment relates to the use of pesticides, it is through the OECD toolbox. Thirdly, it concerns the conservation of aquaculture activity in the internal rivers, lagoons, etc., it is a small intervention, we have almost all agreed. The fourth amendment, to which the Deputy referred, concerns a programme for the collection of dead animals. And what I'm saying to you are obligations that we absolutely must adopt. The fifth relates once again to recommendations to the final report of the OECD toolbox. The sixth is the one that puts a definitive end to the financing of the ELGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u296	Minister, I'm sorry now, but you'll be confusing us all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u297	What do you want me to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u298	They're not amendments. There are three ministerial amendments. The two amendments were tabled to the committee and incorporated into the bill as the same articles and there is a third ministerial amendment. What you say to us fourth, fifth and sixth - and I do not know where you intend to go - are an amendment. They are not separate amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, you have not followed me. When I started, I told you that it was an amendment with a set of interventions from the rural area and I started one - one to mention them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u300	But every time you refer to an amendment. Minister, let's get together. I have no reason to confront it, but you refer to the term'model'. You say 'The next amendment'. This is not a next amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u301	The next setup.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u302	Yes, articles in that amendment. Listen. We can reach agreement, but some things are written in the Minutes, which is why I am telling you. Keep going. I'm sorry to interrupt, but I think it had to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u303	I used this condition because they were all separate amendments by the Ministry of Rural Development and were incorporated into one. That's the whole story. I think it is a matter which at least since the debate that has taken place, we have a consensus. So I now come to the amendments tabled by Members. There are amendments which relate to the regulation of the ELGA. It's the first 1258, the third 1270 and the fifth 1282. These are issues which, in fact, concern us too. These amendments, however, because they also concern budgetary issues, you realise that we will try to do our next bill soon for the trade union representation of farmers to have completed the procedures and, if there is agreement between the General Accounting Office and, of course, the Minister for Finance, they will be tabled. I shall now proceed to the other amendments. Amendment No 1262, which refers to the responsibility of cooperative administrations. I think those who followed the debate this morning have been placed on this subject. It is a serious issue, but we will see it as a whole in the context of dealing with the major issues that the cooperative space in Greece has. We'll see all this together. I think there has been an in-depth debate. The next parliamentary amendment, 1286, which concerns the solution of agricultural partnerships, is a simple amendment. We need to resolve a matter, and it is accepted by the Ministry. Amendment No 1288, which deals with matters relating to fishing activities, the lagoons and especially the eels, is something I cannot accept now when we had a specific arrangement with the lagoon, and we have come to an end. If we look at this in the next bill, but also a written position made by Mrs Maria Triantafyllou on other issues relating to the operation of the lagoon seas, we leave them for the next bill I told you about. These are the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u304	There was another amendment, Mr Minister, or number 1281. It's number four on the document.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u305	Mr Lazaridis' 1281 is the amendment which essentially concerns what we have said to you, it is the eel issue. That'll go later. It can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u306	What you said about the other amendment, as far as this is concerned, is true. Legislative improvements, Minister, are there?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u307	No, except the ones we gave you. I do not need to be mentioned, because as I understood, if there were any differences, it would have been tabled. However, when we actually agreed on them at the second reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Minister. Mr George Stylos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u309	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am obliged to remind you of the works and the days of today's government, namely the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Farmers' income tax has increased from 13% to 22% to 45%. The tax advance was increased from 75% to 100%. For the first time, agricultural subsidies and aid have been taxed, and even since the first euro. The reduction of excise duty on agricultural oil has been abolished. You increased the VAT from 13% to 24% to lower him later. You increased the tax on wine. You have increased the cost of energy from farmers through the increase in PPC. Finally, you have increased insurance contributions to triple, and indeed - I say this to listen to Greek farmers and remember that - from next year onwards, insurance contributions will be measured in income and taxed for the contributions they have given. Minister, the previous government gave you the Agricultural Development Programme near 6 billion euros, money from the European Union that you realise and how multiplier they can have for the Greek economy. Unfortunately, three years after the Agricultural Development Programme approved by New Democracy, you did not increase it or any substantial change and you did. Unfortunately for you, while recently announced in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition by the Prime Minister that absorption has reached 3 billion, we have a real absorption of the programme close to 17% and a disbursement of less than EUR 1 billion. These are the projects, the results of which are judged to be your Ministry's political leadership for the agricultural world and agricultural production. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the bill: 'Movement and marketing of fresh and vulnerable agricultural products and other provisions'. Great announcements to deal with problems and intrinsic weaknesses of years, such as delays in payments to trade, such as compulsory indication of origin for products such as milk, meat and a number of other products, but without any practical effect. The experience of your governance to date has shown that from intentions it is the best and from a result of zero. This is because you face matters with the ignorance of the new one along with swornness and arrogantness. Instead of building on everything good that has been done and taking a step further, we support our producers, we support Greek farmers and farmers, we introduce innovations that are inapplicable, you legislate literally on the leg, annoying and any positive ones you can find. Three are the features of the bill that I want to focus on. It's sloppy, bureaucracy and impracticable. It's awkwardness. The Annex referred to in Article 1 shall not include all products, such as edible olives, eggplants and a number of other products. We propose that, Minister, you take this list, in the definition of fresh and vulnerable products, all the products listed in Annex 1 to the Treaty of Lisbon, so that we can end this once and for all. Secondly, there are other regulations on milk, other regulations on meat. In meat, the indication of the country of origin relates to only one part of the total chain cycle. In other words, it does not start from production, from slaughterhouses, the meat shop, wholesalers, the catering areas. I told you in great detail in committee. You only focus on the meat shops. I ask, Mr Minister: why are you targeting only the meat shops? Is that how you're gonna solve the problem? We expect a more comprehensive approach from you. A second example of curiosity is this. Article 5 refers to compulsory labelling of origin in milk. However, paragraphs 3 and 4 in substance annull paragraphs 1 and 2. In our opinion, paragraphs 3 and 4 should not exist, because when milk is imported from Romania, it comes to Greece, it is processed, packed and moved in our country, it will write an indication of origin of the European Union and the consumer will not understand whether it is Greek, because Greece is in the European Union too. So if you really want to support the Greek products trusted by Greek consumers, do away with paragraphs 3 and 4 in order to register only Greek and nothing else. A number of issues and problems have existed and there have been years, such as the animal import and transport notes are manuscripts and with your own bill being manuscripts. There is no electronic system with full traceability so that we can track each offender using technology. In the sanctions, Mr Minister, you do not state explicitly that the commercial undertaking, which has committed the infringement and has not repaid the producer, is obliged to pay him back to re-entry into the register. Writing. With the system you are trying to import to check transactions you add bureaucracy to the services. Your banks have said they can't respond, so it's a part of this whole process. How will you force them, when beforehand, in the committee, they have said they will not be involved in all this mode of operation? All of this could be solved much easier if there was an electronic system, an electronic platform. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, can I have one or two more minutes? Technology gives solutions to the problems, Minister. Why all this rush? Why not set up a fully electronic payment system, full traceability on all products, at all stages of the chain? As far as inapplicable - and I am ending - the problem is not dealt with in any way. The whole body has told you - more than twenty-five times have come to the committee - that it will not be able to operate this bill. I told you in committee this too. Why, Minister, have you not made any ministerial decision to implement Regulation 1337/2013, which is in your drawers, any implementing provision, so that we can use the tools that are available in other European countries? I shall conclude, Mr President, with the time when trade is repaid for the vulnerable and fresh agricultural products of the sixty days. In order for this regulation to be meaningful, Minister, which is in the right direction, it must concern the whole chain, otherwise distortions are created in the market. For example, other speakers have said so, small cheese shops will not be able to meet their obligations and you know that the weak link throughout the chain is the one that breaks more easily. I fear, Minister, that the weak link, the small producer, the small cheese shop, will be the one who will in the end pay and will be the one who will strengthen the industry and strengthen the large supermarkets.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Style, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u311	I shall conclude, Mr President. What is your answer, Minister, to the claim, if anyone asks to reduce the price of the product in order to pay back for sixty days? Are you sure? There is concern among producers. I fear, Minister, that you will not achieve what you want with this bill, and all because the market is not regulated and does not obey the orders of bureaucrats. There is a reality that goes far beyond the regulations. Whenever survival conflicted with legitimacy, it lost legitimacy, Minister. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u312	Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr President. "You must leave the government. You're incompetent and dangerous. With your departure from the government, leave space to us that we know how to rule." That is why Mr Mitsotakis, who suggests his delusional speech, is right because of the high political fever he is being persecuted. It is a delusional political reason that reaches invoked hallucinations to aliens. And his imaginary political speech continues: We - he says - as a New Democracy, we know how to rule. We know how to close the factories of the "Greek Sugar Industry", how to close the processing and processing plants of primary production, closure of textile factories, closure of "SEPATH", closure of "SEPEK", closure of "Georgiadis", closure of the fish processing plant "XFIA", and list is open. We know how to transform cooperatives into farms of corruption and the fragmentation of public money. We know how to strangle the rural economy, donating Piraeus Bank, against a lentil plate, at the incredible price of 97 million, the country's entire productive primary tissue. We know how to charge the farmers and the public with the wrongly paid'music' subsidies of 'hats', 'hatts' and the subsidies of 'convergence'. You, SYRIZA, don't know about it. You are going through the bill under discussion with arrangements which create problems for wholesalers and chains of supermarkets, making them consistent with their financial obligations towards producers, so that they can repay their debts to them in up to sixty days and not to cow haircuts, as has been done so far. You, as a government - the imaginary rhetoric of the New Democracy - continue with the bill to adopt control measures on market transparency and the protection of domestic primary production. You are protecting cooperatives in the fishing ports, creating conditions for the development of fish farming. On the contrary, we in our policy left these people in their fatelessness. That's why you have to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u314	We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u315	With this bill you are showing that you will resolve and will definitively regulate the existing and generalised problem for most agricultural products, involving late payment or even payment. The truth is, late payments existed. With the start of the capitalist economic crisis, however, it took generalization dimensions together with the producer's degrading prices. Indeed, because there was unscathed production that was rotting in the fields, some scientists were going, collecting production in a region and then becoming smoker or "heaving cannon". The same things were done with the supermarket chains and the producer was really out of order, because he and his family had worked for seeds, fertilisers, oil, medicines and so forth, to have a good production and had remained on the ace, unprotected literally. Was there a law to protect him or compensate him or help him stand on his feet? The Law with the Single Register of Traders of Agricultural Products was supposed to be the law and with that famous Price Observatory that advertised PASOK, somehow would protect him. We have no illusion that the government of the civil state would protect the farm rather than the mercenary trader. And we're probably right, actually. Eventually, though, even this law worked? Of course not. He had two traders' records and basically remained inactive, with the responsibility of all governments, New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. You've been in power for two and a half years. What makes you now bring this law on the payment of the farm? Let's say it clearly and unequivocally. Bring this bill in order to be able to catch tax evasion and tax evasion, since it is known that to a large extent, from the tariffs that are being cut, the taxable income is determined and at the same time the level of the insurance contribution to EFKA. What do the evidence show? A percentage of farmers give their agricultural production without invoices or reduced production and at risk of not being paid. This is how it reduces the amount of real income, so it will also be reduced by the lousy insurance contribution to the FBI. This also benefits the trader or processor who shows a reduced income in relation to real income and therefore pays reduced taxes. I mean, there's tax evasion and tax evasion. We don't agree to make that clear. But what's interesting? The farmer from the bourgeoisie of the bourgeois state and his robbery and insecurity prefers the robbery of the dealer. That's where you forced him to go with your fiercely taxing, tax policy. Such a policy leads essentially to a dead end and the farmer to constant guilt and persecution. So you knew it and you're trying with this bill and penalties to catch the tax evasion. This is your incentive and aim, not to ensure that farmers are paid back in time. Because if you were interested in small and medium-sized farmers, you would accept our rapporteur's proposal. To be responsible, in other words, for the documents and to be sent by the infrastructural dealer and the producer to be paid not in sixty days, but directly, by hand with the delivery of production, since this is an extra cost, paying an accountant. As far as I'm concerned, there are villages that don't have internet connections or have opportunities. Can I talk to you? The highest village in the Peloponnese, in Maguliana Arcadia, which is a livestock village, has no fixed connection. It is also difficult for the rural doctor, when he visits, to prescribe the medicines electronically. Therefore, farmers are not incompetent. They're abandoned, Mr. Cironi. And it seems that you have no contact with the small- and medium-sized farmers unless you only have contact with capitalist farmers who have hired the hired shepherds, accountant and veterinarian, so I understand you. You ignore their small and medium-sized ones, which is why your wild policy leads to extinction. But will the problems of farms be solved, will the extortion of traders and threats be eliminated that they will not be produced? Of course not. Here you are not discussing the question of the level of producer prices at all and if they cover production costs and leave a profit for survival and continued agricultural activity. However, one of the main demands of the farm, which was put in the great rural movement - and they will come back - was the fixing of guaranteed prices. And it makes sense that he knows how much he'll sell, what he'll spare, to live and continue. We know your response, the European Union is doing it with the common agricultural policy, and you, of course, are saying that supply and demand are setting prices. But we know who has negotiating power and how he blackmails to get almost free production. It is really a parasitic element that you, your system protects it in its parasite and profitability, by milking the trouble and sweat of the farm and not just of course. However, in the wind park groups and as a whole, you have set the prices they sell and are specific and the buyer, PPC, transfers the brokens and pays the people through the energy tariffs. Here, then, you have two yards and two stations to rob people's incomes and premium business groups. And from now on, you're pretending to care about late payments and payment. What are you actually doing? You regulate certain competitions between business groups, as there are complaints from industrialists about long delays in payments by supermarkets, as well as large supermarket cannons have had concerns. However, it is challenging, but it also shows your class policy that in the definition of a producer you include manufacturing units, poor medium-sized farmers and monopolies in the same bag. You put the wolf along with the sheep and tell us it's good for the sheep. As far as the compulsory census of the country of origin of milk is concerned, you are making it a great achievement. You received the European Union report after it was introduced in France, Italy and Spain. But why now is the European Union allowing it? Because before the abolition of quotas in cow's milk expired, there was a large capitalist planning unit for more than a quantity, and so there was, immediately after the abolition of the quota restriction, overproduction and an increase in competition between Member States' big business. This is what capitalism and its tools for the profitability of large companies and the destruction of small and medium-sized enterprises have. The question is as follows. Will domestic production increase in milk and meat? No, of course, because the decisive is production costs and producer prices, and they favour monopolies rather than farms, and you do not touch them. On the contrary, you are also robbing assets of cooperative organisations created by the contributions of generations of farmers for their local cooperative. With the right to the property of the cooperative, which remains after the end of the liquidation and could by decision of the General Assembly be made available for cooperative or social purposes, you take it? What are you doing here? You fly the general meeting of the cooperative and you build the property, giving it to the DDIAGE, i.e. the rural TIADED, which is a public limited company, i.e. it can be used and sold for the needs of the DIAGE. For example, he gets a loan, with what mortgage? The cooperative property you're grabbing? This is the reality and do not do at night in despair of the general assembly of farmers. And yet, these people can decide what to do with this property, made by generations' contributions, the warehouse or the plot that they have to stay for the needs of their region, build a cultural club or plot, or the plot to become a sports centre or whatever they appreciate they need. This is ultimately your fair development. That's what you went to go to Thessaly as well. And we have a right to judge your mockery and hypocrisy. The capital you went to support, and of course the region with Mr Agathos was also a co-organizer. Do not pretend to be fighting with New Democracy, together you were, as you were, in the third memorandum, when the limit on milk was abolished. Of course, Mr. Tsipras also put the tombstone in the diversion of Acheloos, who would water the Thessaly land and would not deprive of water from Eitolokarnania. But you got a racing response from the most massive and powerful pan-European rally, with the front of the farm tractors, who are preparing to keep up with them, for those who have questions. But their slogans were content. They're not fooled by your fairy tales. You're doing the dirty work, and they've figured you out. The question is how the situation will be changed and it can be done if their exploiters, who are the same as the working class and the other popular layers, that is, the monopolies and business groups and their political representatives. This presupposes alliance and joint action in the fight, and it is possible, as long as they decide and must do so, if they want to see a white day. The JRC will be with them in front of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u316	We continue with Mrs. Gara Anastasia from SYRIZA. Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to comment on the reasoning expressed just now by a colleague from the Civilian Opposition Party. So my fellow Member said that we SYRIZA MPs blame the New Democracy and tell them that we cannot discuss it, we cannot cooperate with those who went bankrupt with the country. He says the New Democracy colleague: 'But we did not go bankrupt, the crisis brought bankruptcy'. I wonder who brought her? Didn't the policies followed by the New Democracy and the PASOK bring it? Or has the New Democracy now integrated the logic of the alien into its policy and believe that an alien has brought it into the crisis? With these thoughts, therefore, and listening to the lively discussion that exists here, I recall the very recent past or the longest past, considering that the Greek people have no short memory, as many would like to do. So I am concerned, and I say that several times we have to legislate in here by opening up roads, creating a new institutional framework, new conditions, giving citizens new prospects. But sometimes we have to legislate to correct the mistakes of previous governments, and indeed targeted mistakes, their choices and policies, which have created the pathogens, which have brought the crisis. Our main aim is to protect our fellow citizens and to reconstitute the state on sound bases and we have stressed it and have proved it too many times and we prove it daily in our action and our attitude. So I talked about targeted mistakes, because mistakes are for our political perception, but targeting and political choice were for the parties that have ruled, because all these moves and the choices they made were of particular interest and serve particular interests. For example, if there is no control on subsidies, the lack of protection against zoonoses, deforestation of services, uncontrolled market liberalisation, illegal food aids, the strengthening of cartels, projects that have never been completed, infrastructures that have never been unplanned and have never been implemented, tools that have been directed out of production, the dismantling of cooperatives and their use only for customer purposes, the dismantling of the Agricultural Bank, the main instrument of the primary sector, all of this happened at random? Have these choices been randomly made by previous governments, or have they been specific political options? These are your works and these days you and the Greek people have no short memory. So I continue to think about it and say: whether it characterises you as incompetence and a lack of understanding of the needs of primary production and the world of the farm, or whether you have targeted choices in order to serve a few, ‘loan’ and your friends, with full pockets usually and with great power in the market, who are exploiting over time farmers and farmers and improper citizens. So you have never been interested in the development of the primary sector and you have proved it. You have never been interested in supporting and protecting small and medium-sized producers and traders. We, however, with constant intervention, with key legislation, are changing the rules, changing the priorities, taking forward the development of the primary sector, the organisation and protection of the production and movement of products, the support of Greek products - I am referring to some so-called patriots - the organization of the market and the strengthening of healthy competition, as well as the protection of our consumers and fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been mentioned throughout the drafting of this bill in committee over the past few days, we have a very important draft law which supports the agricultural world and agricultural production in substance and places order on the market in terms of repayment times and protects both the Greek producer and the Greek consumer. It is a bill that restores the shape and perspective of Greek agriculture and livestock and lays new bases, along with interventions in insurance, tax, the reduction of VAT on agricultural supplies from 24% to 13%, on which the Greek producer will be able to rely, but also to develop. This bill deals with, in addition to the chronic issues relating to delays in the payments of fresh products, and the phenomenon of the Greekisation of products, which is a particularly serious blow to the country's livestock sector. With the country of production compulsory for products of animal origin, namely milk and meat, which we have achieved since the initiative of this Ministry of Rural Development and through safe traceability at all stages of the production process, they defend the interests of Greek dairy farmers at a time that is crucial for livestock production at European Union level. At the same time, the quality of Greek dairy and cheese products is ensured against unfair competition practices. To be more specific. With the mandatory labelling of milk origin, which includes the country of milk, the country of processing and the country of packaging, the Greek consumer is directly protected against illegal Greekism and at the same time the work and income of Greek farmers are based on the creation of the appropriate conditions of healthy competition in the production of high-quality branded products and quality, and the movement of newly manufactured Greek dairy products on the international market is also enhanced. At the same time, we cannot underline the basic pillar of the bill, which concerns the time of payment of agricultural products. Ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude because time is limited - the content of this bill actually touches the producers of my own region, as well as other regions, as livestock farming for Evros is an extremely important pillar of the economy and requires substantial support. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. Our geographical position is also such that the phenomenon of importing meat and milk from neighbouring regions and baptism as Greek is a daily phenomenon for us, a phenomenon that we see from production to shelf, the consumer and the debate in the café. I do not have time to mention the other favourable provisions of this bill. We must, however, think about who brought the crisis to Greece, the bankruptcy and who with a difficult struggle, without compromising, with difficult legislation and with support and support for real agricultural production and the small Greek producer who support this country and want to change page. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-five students and students and three teachers from the General School of Lidoriki Fokidas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Panayota Brandza has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important bill concerning the multi-faceted primary sector in the country. But before I begin my position on the bill, I would like us to define or even agree - and this bill is a good opportunity - a certain number of issues. One of these issues is how we want the farmer, the producer in 2017. I will go into the process to comment on what the rapporteurs of the Communist Party have said. I have no opposition. I really think we're fighting for the same people. But you can believe what you want. Let me tell you what we do not want: we do not want the poor, poor, medium-sized farmer, whom we will support. We want a farmer who will be a professional, a farmer who will be able to pay an accountant and a veterinarian and who will have the labor of his work and live out of his family, a farmer of dignity and financially sound. So, after we agree what we want, I think we should go in this direction rather than sustaining the poor and poor, medium-sized farmer. We also need to define the agricultural profession at some point. The agricultural profession - and I say this because of my professional experience - is in no way governed by a customer's reasonable or reasonable predator. The agricultural profession has a follow-up. In order for the Greek farmer to succeed, he should also plan and organize his work. Of course, the state must also organise and plan its work, i.e. organise agricultural production. Today we will talk here about what the state needs to do and less about what the farmer needs to do. So what has the state done for so many years? Typical, counterproductive and completely customer-friendly policies, which have been implemented in the last forty years and have been expressed by slogans of the type "all the pounds, all the money" or even with great plans, such as the diversion of Acheloos, who have actually held Thessaloniki Campos hostage. The results are visible. I'll start with the water. Because of origin, I'll say two things more about Acheloos. I really believe that Acheloos' diversion is not an ideological issue. It's a completely technocratic issue. We should decide whether or not to bring the water to Thessaic Campos only after we have exhausted all the other opportunities we have. So the ideoleptic obsession of the New Democracy and the PASOK led to the danger of desertification of Thessaly. We therefore believe that changes need to be made. An integrated plan was announced. All the rest must be done only if and since we cannot finally meet the demand for water, then we must discuss Acheloos. There has been a reduction in productivity, a reduction in nutritional adequacy, a huge deficit in important products of animal origin, such as milk and meat, an increase in the trade balance for agricultural products, which has been reduced over the past two years, while we in the government are downgrading important products for the country, such as cotton, mismanagement of Community funds with serious losses of capital, fines and imputations that we are still paying for, weakness of renewal, education and training in the rural world. What do we want with this bill? We want to overthrow this data, protect agricultural income, domestic production, consumer production, ensure payment and combat Greekism. There are reactions and there may be others. Some will try very hard to avoid applying the provisions of the bill. I honestly do not understand - it was said by a Member of the New Democracy - that you have the view that we are trying to target the Greek crustaceans. On the contrary. We believe that Greek crustaceans can help very much in the fight against Hellenism. We really think they have chosen the wrong camp and it will not be good for them and of course for the country. The interests are too great. They are gaining systematically and inconsistently against the Greek producer and the Greek consumer. We must speak clearly here and choose a camp. We're very clean on this. The first part of the bill relates to the time of payment of fresh and vulnerable products. The apples, peaches and kiwi are included, because the rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece has asked. There is a chaotic situation on the agricultural market. Of course, this is where we set the payment time, but before that we have to do some other things on the farmers' side. In the case of tariff transactions: in fact, Mr Minister, I would like to rethink whether there is reason for the special regime to exist and for the benefit of farmers alone, not for some other reason. Trades with invoices can ensure the payment of farmers, as we have open prices, fictional prices, 'part of' with VAT returns, festives and cheques that return and never remain. The other thing that producers must do is work together. Unfortunately, he's the weak link. And alone he's so weak that he's always lost. Of course, there is a bad cooperative precedent in the country, which is dissuasive for most farmers in cooperating. By the time they are more powerful, we need to protect transaction rules, fair and transparent rules. It has been said by many factions that this existed with the 2013 law that harmonized the country with some relevant European directive. Unfortunately, all that has been done - and those who have read the directive can certainly say it - was an ineffective wishing list of good intentions, which, however, referred to the implementation of the agreement on both sides, which was, of course, a leody, for the benefit of the strong, namely the trader. We are just trying to correct this situation. The second part of the bill in my opinion is more important. It concerns the indication of the country of origin in animal products, in milk and in meat and in milk products. This is a regulation that tries to shield the Greek producer and the Greek consumer from the scourge of Greekism. The quality of Greek meat and milk products - and not only - is given - there are many important reasons for this and we must invest, but I will not go into this process to say - and it is a great incentive to baptise importers, traders, etc., products from different parts of the world as Greek. Imports are data in the country. We have a deficit, particularly in animal products - for example, beef, which we have 15% beef production in Greece - but all the meat shops have Greek mountain meat, preferably. So what we need to do is to be able to ensure traceability of the meat. That is why we are putting the obligation on the cash register of the country of origin, precisely to ensure the traceability of the meat and that is the only way to safeguard the Greek producer, but also the Greek consumer. As far as the Greeks are concerned, it is even worse because, apart from unfair competition, the reduction of production, consumer misleading, important products are at stake, with the tailor-made feta. At the moment, a feta is sold on the market, which is EUR 4,10 per kilo, and on this we all have a responsibility: both producers and processors and the state. I will say again about the responsibilities of the state. The rest can be discussed at some other time when both producers and processors are with us. Obviously we are not talking about feta, we are talking about a cheese of doubtful origin - quality is being discussed - but which does not have the standards laid down by the legislation of feta. Here, Mr Minister, is an important issue: Balance, controls and penalties. In my opinion, the current state law is inadequate and needs to be immediately improved and the fragmented system of controls and the various control mechanisms has also proved ineffective and must be immediately corrected. Unfortunately, these two factors may be the result of failure of the bill. That is why we must make improvements to both. I conclude by saying that we are debating a very good piece of legislation today. The problems in the primary sector are too many and the bill will start to solve them. It is a start targeted to make the exceedment required by times and conditions and to escape an obsolete, clean and parasitic management model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u320	We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Centro-Centro-Cavadela Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u321	Thank you very much, Mr President. Initially, we cannot claim that we are seeing this bill negatively, but we must do and must make some comments to clarify some dark points for us, but also for many of our fellow citizens, as put in the public consultation. However, this bill is introduced into a deserving landscape, which is thirsty to defuse the results of recent and very great ecological disaster, which, of course, concerns all society and especially the professionals involved in fisheries and all relevant sectors. The Central Association has also tabled a question calling for the strengthening of professionals with tax reliefs, hoping that we will receive your reply immediately, which we expect will be in the right direction. From there on, the bill, although it seems at first sight that it seeks to rationalise certain chronic diseases of the core of our economy, of course related to agricultural production, nonetheless contains some provisions and some points that force us to maintain our care at least at the outset, because it does not give definitive answers, for example, to the question of intermediaries, to the Greeks, to the quotas. In more detail, the Central Association considers that the first chapter is the most positive, since it attempts to regulate chronic diseases in the movement of fresh and vulnerable products affecting both production for the sensitive group of our farmers and consumers, since for years they have not been protected neither in terms of price nor in terms of the quality of agricultural products they consume, a chain - and indeed in the sensitive area of nutrition - which is malfunctioning, rising prices on the market, compressing the price collected by the producer and offering dangerous products to the consumer, operating for years without rules and without controls. For us, then, the main aim is to guarantee the producer first. It is also very important to shrink the chain between producer and final consumer, because this is the best way for the consumer, but also for the producer, because there is a better relationship between price and quality. If we do not have time, Greece will end up with tourism as a monoculture - that remains in Greece now - and will import the other products from abroad, as is already the case with many products, such as potatoes from Egypt and tomatoes from Turkey. One is the question that should concern us. We will have to respond, because until now your predecessors and your own government have led us to a dawn. So you must immediately separate producers from the processing companies. We have nothing with the processing companies, we just have to tell them why they operate sometimes in intervention in the normal chain flow and often as intermediaries. So we think that the processing company could be another category in itself. As we have said, we are not against business, but we want a fairer approach to producers. We have an example, our own oil, which is exported to Italy. There she bottles in nice bottles and returns as Italian and is sold all over the world. Of course, this is because the farmer - producer - does not make marketing, does not have the channels for channelling his products. We call on the state to give some incentive so that even the processing can be carried over to the hands of farmers through healthy organisms that will promote the product. This agency, which could be a cooperative, - of course there are some bad impressions from the old cooperatives - could pack up, promote and make marketing products. There are some provisions in the first chapter, which includes Articles 1 to 4, which are in the right direction. However, these provisions come with a significant delay to supplement the already incorporated into Greek legislation by Law 4152/2013 Directive 2011/7. We further consider that there is an attempt to control domestic production and protect the Greek consumer. With the provisions of Articles 1 to 4, which mention the exclusive payment deadline within sixty days and the exclusion of the possibility of contractual overrun of the deadline, and also propose significant administrative sanctions, we are taking half a step forward. The other half, of course, will be to apply all this in practice in a fair and effective way. We need to reorganise the repayment mechanism and we call for the guarantee by means of a guarantee bank or guarantee fund that the producer will finally be repaid. Greek legislation already provides for the control of imports - exports through the existing electronic register of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, in which imports and exports are declared and controls are carried out by the competent authorities. In addition, we also highlight some reservations we have and have been made by producers, traders and market operators about the effectiveness of the proposed provisions on the basis of invoices. In this respect, the reality of the market to date has shown us that several producers deliver their products to traders on a simple shipping note, while the invoice is cut only after the sale and only for the quantities sold. We therefore strongly question whether these provisions will ultimately work positively for the whole moving production along the entire production chain. We also have another concern about whether the control mechanisms will be able to meet the expectations of the proposed provisions, given the huge bureaucracy. And we know very well that there is at least a will in Greece, but practice is quite different. With regard to the second chapter contained in Articles 5 to 9, we believe that its provisions are moving in the right direction, as they contribute to better information and consumer protection for sensitive and critical products in the food chain, such as milk and meat. However, it is surprising that while, in accordance with Article 5(5), the indication is made in accordance with Article 13 of the European Union Regulation 1169/2011, Article 8, and in particular paragraph 2 thereof provides for the possibility of adopting a ministerial decision to regulate more specific matters relating to the indication of the indications, which leaves the Minister concerned to do rather arbitraryly, gives him some scope for intervention. As far as animal movement is concerned, the movement to slaughterhouses is still handwritten, and if electronic control is carried out, it will certainly be greater, more effective, in terms of the Hellenisation of slaughterhouses which, in Easter period at least, cover most of the products placed on the Greek market. So the indication of the country of origin of meat in the meat industry's cash machine is a very positive measure, but it could apply to a greater extent, even in the focus areas, to know what is happening there too. The same goes for milk. Indicate the origin, when the milk has been milked, where the treatment has taken place. In Chapter C, and in particular Article 10-14, the provision in Article 10, let us say, which allows fishing services which have the power to manage public farms, to carry out, within six months of the entry into force of the provision, a leasing procedure for non-farm public farms. In this regard, there is something we do not understand. Who are these public farms off-farm? What exactly does it try to regulate and why does it set a six-month deadline? We don't understand what it means and it looks like we're photographic about this particular article. At the same time, we want to clarify why the obligation to pay by the wager is being abolished and in favour of the general public at 5% of the value of the daily farmed wage production, as was the case until now. We also want to know what the purpose of setting up a further committee is, such as the Committee on Rented Water Control in the relevant regional unit. Finally, paragraph 8 of Article 10 makes it surprising that the legalisation of public-sector or OTA facilities by means of a simple accreditation act is not guaranteed, since the necessary safeguards that an ex post legalisation of installations, as provided for in the provision, are not guaranteed. As far as cooperatives are concerned, I have this to say: because the farmer has neither the way nor the customers, and it is a special job to keep the product, he should resort to the cooperatives. We refer to Article 12, where we are asking ourselves about the reduction of the members of the OPEKEPE Board and their appointment by a ministerial decision. As far as possible, there is a need for more personal representation. To conclude, I would like to say that the Central Association is in favour of national control over food available to our fellow citizens. The term 'national food sovereignty' describes the situation from which a nation has in its absolute control the production, safety and supply of food consumed by citizens. Although the draft law comes at first sight to regulate time-consuming pathogens in agricultural production and in general in the rural economy and should be supported, that is to say, in our support, we are nevertheless obliged to reserve some reservation on account of some of the provisions underpinning traps and even perpetuating factors. We therefore believe that the cooperatives, despite their problematic function, which was caused by state interventions alone, are some hope for the promotion of primary production, provided that we take care of the management and the way these cooperatives interact with our producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u322	Mrs Maria Triantafel has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin by referring to the articles on fisheries and, if I have time, I shall refer to the other articles in the bill. Italo-Carnania is one of the most important prefectures in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. It has 42% of the country's ponds, 25% of the lakes and 1/3 of the whole country's water. The Messologist-Etoliki lagoon is the largest in the country and the second largest in Europe. The Messologist-Etolikos lagoon is not only an economic value and a development perspective, but has an incalculable environmental, social, historical and cultural value, for the archaeological wealth of the region, for the historical events that have taken place in it, for the biological wealth that exists there. He is therefore a unique, productive and historic habitat and deserves a holistic approach to the objective of fair growth. That is where fishing has been developed and its survival as a traditional occupation and support is called upon for the region. It is not only a question of economic deadlock or economic benefit, but above all of maintaining the social fabric of the area of cultural continuity. There have been catastrophic interventions over the past few decades. Sea roads were closed and a vital area was removed for fishermen. However, while there was and is an undeniable need for the rational management of the lagoon, for the protection of the marvelous ecosystem, fish stocks, for the rational management of the financial programmes - the Europeans in particular - the infrastructure, which would help fishing, has not been strengthened. Even the Messingfisher was abolished. In the largest lagoon in the country, i.e. there is no fish auction. The only thing that was being strengthened over time was the peltocracy. There is therefore a need for modifications and legislative frameworks in relation to fisheries, thus creating an opportunity not just for additional work, but for strengthening, rejuvenating and rejuvenating cooperation in Greece, which is a political choice here of this government. So, starting from a.d.20/16, the changes that were chosen and supported unanimously by the free fishermen, changes that have to do with tools, dates and horsepower of their machines were made. A further serious issue arises, which appears in their most recent memorandum, which has also been sent to Members of the county, perhaps to the Members of the committee and to the Minister himself: the issue of placement. I propose this, so that there are no slags, so that there are no shadows, etc., there can be a legislative improvement in which it will clearly say that there is the area of no rental land. It is in accordance with the provisions of bd.435/70. There is this proposal from the free fishermen in their most recent memorandum, and at least I suggest that we put it. I have spoken to the committee about the need for a traceability clause, that is to say, that people in the area can fish in the lagoon. This also exists in the Presidential Decree and earlier in the Royal Decree, which changed and took its place in the Presidential Decree. It is important to me that there are hospitable ears from the Minister for Rural Development. I said to the committee that, in my view - and now I go to Bd420/70, that is to say, the changes that are taking place there - the word'sea lakes' should be deleted, because it does not give anything, it is not an explanatory concept, etc. I am pleased that it has been deleted in the new text. But there are other problems. Let's see exactly what changes are taking place with b.d.420/70, and if the free fishermen's concerns are reasonable, say they'll be thrown out of their work, etc. Let us see exactly what changes are made and if these concerns are reasonable. I think we should be very careful, because here I have to say that fishermen, both the free fishermen and the cooperative fishermen, are people who have been actually fooled many times - I would say - for the development and development of the region we have to give another perspective to the work of the fishermen themselves. There have also been many disagreements, not only by colleagues who have noticed during the plenary, about whether there should be assignments, etc. Now, let me say a few words. With the amendment of Article 35, priority is given to fisheries cooperatives and anyone who disagrees with this should say so. Clear things. We want to prioritise fishing cooperatives. We never hid it. There is a law of 2016 and we want, on the basis of this law, to change things to the cooperative movement and to the cooperatives themselves. How, then, are these procedures being done? There's a direct assignment. There's a list of OTAs. There have also been objections and controversy in the committee. Here's to be a little clear. These procedures were provided for by the region. The new one is that these processes are now happening in the first-degree local government. In fact, there has also been a position that said: 'Okay, you immediately say who will be the mayor'. It is an issue that we should see. I think we should mainly see it, because I do not know whether it is more democratic than the Mayor. I think that what we really need to think about and implement is that there should be such insurance packages that will go in here so that there are no arbitrages, just as they were until today. So there is this possibility and the fisheries cooperatives are being promoted and, of course, if there are two cooperatives, there will be an auction. That must be clear. The anxiety now arising from the free fishermen, I think, has been proposed in a way by my dear colleague Mr Lazarides, in order to extremize them as a result of a change of framework, etc. Its proposal is to enable everyone to participate in the composition of the cooperatives in question - I read it as it says - and to avoid the cases of awards on income criteria, etc. I agree. I have the impression that no fisherman can stop a fisherman entering a cooperative. No one can stop a fisherman from entering a cooperative! This must be made clear, and we must also prejudge it and safeguard it. In my opinion, any fishermen who think they want to enter a cooperative, must create cooperatives, must enter the process, if they so wish, and the fisheries cooperatives must be promoted. In my view, therefore, they both need it. The free fishermen need free fishermen, the cooperatives need such regulations and controls that production returns to the place in transparency. Here many times I heard that he's been baptized by the party. No, ladies and gentlemen, it is not partisan control. Control is an undeniable need if we want to have results. There is also one question why we choose to change now. Firstly, there were many proposals to change more than one or two decades. But why do we choose to change now? Because the cooperative movement and the cooperatives did not do well, and because the cooperatives must be as close to social needs as possible and we must give everyone practical opportunity to work, but with scrutiny. So all the cooperatives must be refined and effort is made with both the law of 2016 and the sea, even the Messologist-Etoliki lagoon has a minimum and a production class. We do not want overfishing and we do not want problems in cooperatives. All of them, but all of their cooperatives were indebted. The new one that comes in - and I am now ending, and I am very grateful for the tolerance, although I have not requested it, Mr President - is the possibility of rural tourism involving the partners. Here too, too, too much attention and clarity is needed, but above all, political will is needed for fair growth. We must aim to ensure that there are evaluation criteria for such actions and that they are linked to the specificities of the natural environment and the resources in which they are established. In other words, there must be planning and direction of development based on the specific characteristics of each site. The lagoon - I'll say again - is not anyone's chip, it must never happen, we must never let anyone ever become one's chip again. And you should always look for roles for critical social groups that support productive reconstruction. We must always try to link a political collectiveness such as that which can promote fair growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u324	Mr Christos Antoniou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development, which we are debating today, contains a number of important and critical interventions which will, on the one hand, support farmers, agricultural production and livestock and, on the other, help to protect Greek consumers. First of all, I refer to the regulation on the two-month period for traders in agricultural products to pay off the products purchased by our farmers, fresh and vulnerable, as stated in the attached list. We are all aware of what is happening today, where our farmers, our farmers, are deprived of any protection and are at the mercy and the good option of traders of agricultural products, such as significant redundancy delays, full inconsistencies that go up to unpaid. These are the so-called 'rules' - known to those from rural areas - which lead to the economic extermination of farmers. This obligation to repay the two months already existed in existing legislation, but it has never been implemented, because it existed in the footnotes, in the fine letters as we say, the possibility of canceling this agreement, provided that the two parties decide otherwise. And usually that was the practice, that's what happened. Because when there is such an asymmetry of power - negotiation between traders, chains and simple producers, the strongest one always imposes his opinion on the impossible. This issue is resolved by the introduction of compulsoryity and the responsibility of farmers who must declare their transactions to the competent audit bodies. The state here, Minister, must be decisive and consistent in implementing the provisions of this law in order to clarify once and for all this blurred landscape and this mischief practice. The monitoring and control mechanisms should be strengthened. The second important regulation concerns Greek farmers by introducing compulsory labelling of the origin of milk and meat, traceability and monitoring throughout the chain from the farmer to the cash machine, in order to match the phenomenon of the evergreen Greeks that affect both Greek farmers and Greek consumers who must know what they are buying and, respectively, what they are paying for. Illegal Greekizations of agricultural and livestock products compress producer prices and burden consumers who pay most expensive foreign and dubious products as Greek. Ladies and gentlemen, since the hearing of the bodies in the relevant debate in the relevant committee, the whole has been very positive in this bill, a bill waiting for years for Greek farmers and farmers to contribute to the uninterrupted development of agricultural production for the benefit of the national economy, Greek farmers and Greek consumers. I should also like to point out here the special effort of the current political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, because this issue has been the subject of a tough negotiation with the relevant European institutions - which has not been brought to light so much in today's debate on the issue of counter-population - which was a happy ending. In conclusion, I would like to urge the Minister to deal with the similar protection of producers of other products - in addition to the vulnerable and fresh regulated by this bill - which concerns a large group of products such as cereals, cereals, maize, rice and other productions, which are currently somehow outside this regulation, so that there is a control in the register of agricultural products and we can see who really have the conditions to be in that register, what guarantees they give as regards their economic surface, because unfortunately we have a whole lot of incompatibility in many cases. We have one last case there with rice and in the Malgarese region, but also in Serres Prefecture where more than EUR 7 million is due and there is no money from a particular trader - if you want the information, to give it to you - to spend on the producers, the rice growers, who are in despair. So we also need to see this piece in a later phase and see what protection we will be able to give to these products. Finally, allow me to comment on the New Democracy and the former PASOK colleagues. I would like to point out to them that they have to be a little more careful and not to raise the tone of criticism because they are responsible for both the destruction and the curse of the agricultural sector, and in particular the idea of the cooperative and cooperative movement that have broken up, swept away and completely valued the idea of cooperation with our farmers. We must make great efforts to regain confidence, because only through such mechanisms can they enjoy better prices for their products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u326	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Hadjisavvas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u327	In this bill there are provisions that are supposed to ensure the payment of producers for vulnerable products. I believe, however, that they are superficial, pre-formative and incomplete. I shall refer to some, as the speaker of the Golden Dawn did. My first objection is this: Minister, all these actions are supposed to be carried out by producers and not just by producers, but they should be carried out during the harvest period and by the days when the dealers receive them. Do you know what hours these work is going on? They are made from morning to night, with adverse weather conditions, with very hot or very cold rain. Inside all the things that will need to go as many times as they will deliver agricultural products, they will also have to enter the Internet, they will be able to make statements and take all the necessary steps to ensure that they are paid. It would be good if, when you legislate such things, your partners were to go a little bit in practice to see how they are done, because we are facing a lot of problems. We have often tried to find a solution, such as when we asked you what would happen with the producers' permits, which cannot be renewed and you said that we are waiting for the People's Markets Bill. You say and can wait for production all summer, indisposed, to legislate you to get permission. Also, this issue of defective products that will reduce the value of the invoice, who determines these? At one time the GPA existed, there were agricultural compounds, at least for cereals, there were categories S1, S2, S3 and they set these standards. What's the matter if it happens at the time of delivery or they'll go there, let their loads and when the dealer can check them out, he'll tell them that it's inappropriate after he's left in the sun or under any conditions stored? In Article 4, which provides for a 30% fine for those who exceed it, 5% for negligence in gathering data, delete one year from the Single Trade Register and EUR 100,000 for anyone who continues to operate. But how will the producer get his money? We should not at least expect the producer to be compensated and then find out who was to blame, who did not pay, what he did. In Kilkis, for example, there have been traders of agricultural products for which counterfeit paper infringements have been established, and infringements and fines have been made more than a million in one case, and he continues for a few years and takes agricultural products again, after having pause and opened to one of his relatives. In Article 5 on the labelling of milk products, I, too, have to say to the meat, Minister, that at least is for the laws bordering on countries which have cheaper production costs. Our borders, you know, with Skopje and Bulgaria are not as imagined by those who have not visited the region. There are no fences, no trench, no wall, or I don't know how you have it in your mind. It is a forest where the border is delimited by a forest road, it is fields where there is a rural road and in some cases there is neither a rural road nor to cultivate one of Skopje's fields, and it is forced to enter the field through the Greek field. And of course, there are pastures common to them. There are complaints, therefore, that they pass by thousands of sheep and goats and bulk products, with their unique document a 50 euro which will give the border on the Skopje side. Greece does not need to give anything, because there is neither Army nor border guard. There's nothing, no control. These tents that took place there in Idomeni and the Evzones are just one point - you know - that is safe, there is the roads and the passage of the train. Everything else is unguarded. The problem with feta is, of course, the control of the origin of milk, but the main thing is the sale of the name. The whole world can make a feta now. Okay, here's where you can check where the milk comes from, but I'm telling you that's not the main thing right now. Agricultural production, therefore, should be the main area for the development of our national economy. Sadly, however, he grows and fights for survival. It is a great story that tourism is Greece's heavy industry. Useless to raise ticks in both tourism and the market, where the products consumed are mostly imported. We are therefore introducing huge amounts of agri-foodstuffs, and we should normally export, since we are first independent of food, which we can achieve, because we have already reached a figure of 83% -87%. Now the balances have been reversed, I think 83% -87% we import. So there are also food markets in Europe and Milan and Frankfurt, where there is a great demand for high quality fresh products and foodstuffs in general, but they want something specific. What they want is standardisation, small quantities standardized, so that this product can function, promote and have a purchasing audience. Perhaps you should motivate and help, grant standardisation, even to small producer groups, so that they can become competitive and sell their products without intermediaries, directly abroad. There are, of course, complaints from farmers, in the Paionia of Kilkis, for example, where someone has a thousand sheep and goats, produces tons of milk and after the tax raid he receives, but also those that he pays as arrangements for loans, banks and old debts, he does not have more than EUR 300 a month clean for his home. This is not enough for the rent of his child who is studying, that is. How many ovine and caprine animals and what facilities does a farmer have to have in Greece so that he can live his family out of this job? All of course is the result of a mistake of thinking of all governments, not just yours, because as a state you are running behind the European Union and the CFP's developments and commands. Of course, you run behind the offenders, who after doing what they do, you run to gather what they have left in the economy. The state should define the rules and framework for approximating the agricultural issue, draw up agricultural policy. This could, of course, be done by a national state. and not a capitalist, neoliberal or left, anyway, memorial. I am also unable to understand our comparison with Denmark, France and others that I hear from a number of speakers. What does the economy of Greece have to do with Greece, the development of Greece, the needs of Greece, the potential of Greece and, above all, the organization of Greece, with Denmark? You can see, Minister, often I see in your speech and in the answers you give, various aspects of the problem, as you have answered a question that the aid and benefits to those who do not grow and are the sofa farmers will have to be brought to an end. How's that gonna happen? So, through the mandates of the European Union and the CFP, which you follow with piety, which are subsidized according to the acres you have and not depending on the quantity you produce, i.e., with the non-agriculture of land, will you be able to achieve what you are announcing? This is, of course, the main problem, and it is an old one. It's not your government. Decades with the CAP have now been cut off from agricultural production. They left and went to the city centers to work as waiters and as workers for a piece of bread. And since now they are unemployed, they are now coming back to their villages. Except the fields of fathers or grandparents were sold or rented for a long time. Their machines or resold or sold, and of course the know-how that was mainly experiential no longer exists. They are now returning as workers, as new ilodies in the fields that once were their fathers to work for grandchildren. Even today young people - those who want to become young farmers and say that there is a good economic crisis, return to the primary sector, to national production - do you know what they're asking? They're asking which crop is subsidized. They haven't figured out that the CFP is proposing some things and you want to be part of this game, you follow. They have not understood either that the way the CAP is wrong. He's pushing them into the cultures of capitalist fashion. They cultivate aromatic plants, some of the other ones that preform the media from morning to night. There were cases of some who planted rape and believed that there would be oil or biodiesel. The solution proposed by the Golden Dawn is therefore an exit from the economic size of the euro that breaks down and lulls us with it. Direct national policy, outside the CFP and deletion of all the Memorandum commitments. In conclusion, I should like to say a little bit about the amendments. There are seven articles in one amendment. I'm talking about 1287. In the first paragraph, which concerns the recognition of schools, particularly in private - if I understood correctly - of the professions of meat, there are some problems. At the school of Thessaloniki, for example - which I happen to know - the facilities do not help. Teachers are forced to enter into agreements with freelance professionals and to ask them in practice to grant them spaces to teach pupils. There are lists that sometimes exceed 11 months of waiting if you want to go to this school. The equipment is incomplete. All this saves the level of teachers, all of whom are veterinarians and those who are not, they have a high level as well. And maybe you should help state schools and find a way to absorb those who come out of these schools. Because they actually either go out of public school or go out of private school, they have prepared them to go to Europe ready with their degree to work. For the second paragraph concerning the retail sale of pesticides for professional use, we are in favour of any attempt to ensure the correct and safe use of pesticides. However, we must also think of something else - it has nothing to do with it now - the unreasonable use of pesticides. There is almost no lake and river in Greece where its fish are safe and edible. And this is largely due to the unreasonable use of pesticides. We see that the conditions have been reversed. And where anyone once did not want to shop for his home, his family farm fish, now feels safer if he buys fish farming rather than go and find what is fished by lakes and rivers. For PASSENGERS, let me say let's first find the money that's lost and then adjust the rest. Closed up, I'll tell you about OSH. The issue must be dealt with with with the difference in VAT, since some key agencies are being privatised for the country. It was also right that this decision should give free transfer to the unemployed. However, we must note that in Greece the problem is not only the unemployed. Many who work and take 300 euros, 340 euros and 350 euros. They can't give 10% of their salary to get a multiple route card. And they're in trouble. It doesn't mean that because they work, they can move by public transport. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] And there should also be a direct Statement of all traffic, of power plants, of telecommunications units, of deficits charged to those who created them and of no relief for them to enter the Memorandum and be clearly sold out of debt. I hope that the OSH will not be sold out in two years' time to a private person, and you become the filter that cleaned the product from a unclear regime, but clear debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr. Hadjisavva. There are still two speakers to complete the list of speakers, Mr. Kyriazidis from New Democracy and Mr. Triantafylides from SYRIZA. Then I would ask the rapporteurs to inform the Bureau who will be inclined to plan the time. Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. If a well-meaning farmer wants to move about today's bill, he would actually say that he will provide what every farmer, every farmer, that is, every fisherman, that is to say it is possible to pay for any movement of goods of the fresh or even vulnerable in sixty days. But is that possible? Is it real? Is this the law applicable? Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, it will not be possible because there are too many basic elements missing. And my previous colleague, Mr Antoniou, mentioned the fact that not all those control mechanisms are in place, in order for the Ministers to implement the relevant law. And I do come to the payment process. About a million invoices will come the two-month period to be executed in Athens, downtown, in order to be checked. Who should they be controlled from? Of the five employees? I have the feeling that this is impossible, it's unrealistic. So, like other bills and then laws, this has been inapplicable. Unfortunately, there is a lack of control which we all want and which has been emphasised in this House. Electronically submit the invoices. By who? Of the farmers, the fishermen, the farmers? Will that farmer have the ability to send electronically? If that's possible! I agree, he'll have to learn to work. Moreover, your Scientific Committee states that 'Should you also consider the possibility of these people' - in other words,'submit them on their part'? He's telling you, he's recording it for you, but you don't. Unless again - why is it the only bill I see that has no appointments - we calculate about 100 thousand are, if you want, the farmers involved in this trafficking and I mean farmers, farmers, fishermen and fishermen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u330	At least.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u331	How many, Minister, are those who are involved in this process, farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen? Is it fifty thousand? Aren't they going to submit ten invoices? They'll be submitted. That's understandable. So fifty thousand. In other words, each of the people involved may be able to hire an assistant in order to deal with unemployment as well. From your point of view, this can also happen, all possible. I wish. What else can we say? So what is lacking in this bill is the possibility of monitoring, crossing, so that there are consequences. Mr. Deputy, that's the way it is. You don't want to believe it, but that's the reality. Because we have dealt with matters, like the Minister, as a worker in the Agricultural Bank, he knows how all these issues are going. I've been chief of staff for years, so I know exactly how it's done. Are there any consequences? Are there any penalties?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u332	The seasons have changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u333	Of course they've changed. I think it would be for the better, not for the worse. This is the bad thing that, unfortunately, there is not that and there are no consequences. So if a person is credited and found to commit these infringements as provided for in Article 2 and Article 3 - here we see the auditor being also a judge at the same time, are you confusing things a little, but in any case - will it have consequences in the first or second time so that he does not repeat it? There's not all of this. Unfortunately, this is the harsh reality. And of course we've seen. I said that before, Minister. There were other laws concerning the movement of meat, as regards Regulation 1337/2013. Has the regulation been adopted in order to implement it? You didn't. So it doesn't apply. Of course, it has been stressed here that we are milder in the tons, and that is all going well, and that is why you have started it, and we should be happy that we are from the periphery in our countries and meet the farmers and say how nice and good the government is doing. But you did not tell us about the increase in VAT from 13% to 24%, the increase in taxation from 13% to 22% and up to 45% in some cases, the increase in the advance payment of tax from 75% to 100%, for the first time in basic agricultural aid and subsidies, the abolition of the reduction of excise duty on agricultural oil, the increase in production costs - I mean the cost of PPC - excessive insurance contributions, etc. Absorption of funds? 17.4 in order to alleviate the farmers, the farmers and the fisherman. I come to Article 14. Is it possible for those involved in the whole process to abolish the participation of representatives of the ELGA and OPECE? I think, Minister, you should see this. I now come to us. Mr Deputy Minister, you were in Nerokopi and then you came to Parliament, after you met the farmers and told them 'Yes, because this place was actually declared in an emergency' - we had heavy winter - you were committed to strengthening them, that you would compensate them. You did not. 75% of farmers are left out of any aid. And you stressed it in here, that this measure would bring it to the vote and, in any case, would happen once you wish, relief or use other means, de minimis in this case, in order to obtain any compensation. We didn't see that. In other areas we saw it, but we did not see it in Lower Neuroscope, we did not see it in Drama. As for zoonoses, Minister. Yesterday, in a timely question, Minister, you mentioned that it is not possible for the ELGA to strengthen itself, because it did not exceed 30% of any damage, but on the subsequent question you had for seventeen farmers in Thassos you found the possibility through de minimis to strengthen them and made a commitment to that. And you did well, I'm not saying you didn't do well. But you did not do it for farmers and farmers, if you want - I mean monoculture - in Neuroscope. Sure, what's the worst? You have deceived them while you said you would proceed to compensation. It is the third year, Minister - I repeat - that you do not. You don't use the relevant fund to breathe this world up there. Luckily they listen to us and they see us. And that's why Tuesday I'm telling you that the farmers in eastern Macedonia and Thrace will have something to say to you in Komotini. I believe that you will listen to them and they will not be considered far-right or fascists or anything else to do with anyone who differentiates or has a different viewpoint from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Mr Triantafylides from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes and we finish with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u335	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the alternating repertoire, from the aliens, has reached the other end, the boring repetition of the myth of Psoscostanna Greece, which cannot do anything, which cannot build mechanisms, which cannot control, which cannot invest. Again, the myth of clutching Greece, with aids, benefits, aids, what you will give, what will be subsidised by the party of the free economy. No new investments, new jobs, new jobs. That's what we heard earlier. "1974, it's going well this year. It's all right, they made all the seeds. The middlemen will come back and we'll be the same. Once again they take our crop cheap. No, we are not selling!» said Thomas Bakakakakou in 1974 and SYRIZA had to come in 2017, after forty-three years to put things in place, because food for consumption - they are smiling, they have the nerve to smile - seven to ten days to be paid with cheques seven and ten months or even with open expiry dates. Incomprehensible to the free economy, when the rural area lacks liquidity. Why? Because the farmer is alarge. It must give liquidity or, if you like, the stores and merchants to draw liquidity from the Large Farmer, who has no such problems. Along with these, the direct e-invoicing triplet, the installation of a customs scanner, the creation of an autonomous operating staffing service at all levels, and especially at the entrance-out gates of products, will be the key, which will deal with both the Greekizations and all the wicked who want close to the basilica to be watered and the pot. Genuine cut of fair growth through the logic of the conflicting producer-trader interests from the field on the shelf. Tens of reports have been reported over the last 40 years on the heterogeneous relationship between producer and trader - consumer with victims both of the producer who produces and of the consumer, who pays, for the benefit of the broker, who simply carries. It was one to three costs, and it is for Europe - one to the producer, three to the consumer - and one to five to Greece. Why? Because we're alarge! The 'Live Europe'! Let's go see what's been going on for decades, so we can go see what Psokostina Greece can't do for forty years, not what the Syrian Member of Parliament says, but the Association of Greek Food Industries. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The food industries? Mostly affected by SYRIZA! What do people say? They came to committee and what did they say? In France there are categories of susceptible foodstuffs for which the conditions of payment are strictly laid down and may not be longer than thirty days after the end of the delivery of consumable foodstuffs. Twenty days after the delivery date for the purchases of live bovine animals and thirty days after the end of delivery for the purchase of alcoholic beverages. That's in France. In Spain, what has happened for the last 40 years, which we have also been in Europe since 1981 and then in the Eurozone, and when the seven to ten days were paid in ten months or with an open date for when the farmer and the farmer will be paid? In Spain, for the same sensitive products, the deadlines shall in no case exceed thirty days. In our neighbour Italy for fresh and susceptible food products and dairy products, the maximum payment time is thirty days. These in our neighbouring Italy, but Greece, Psoroccostanna, could not do that. Why? Say it's Mediterranean countries. Benelux, Belgium - Netherlands - Luxembourg? The same communication - a memorandum from the Association of Greek Food Industries on 26 September 2017 concludes after this list and says: "In Greece, the industry has a vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises, which in the last seven years are facing many problems, but most importantly the lack of liquidity". Uh, of course, since we have a lack of liquidity, do the industries say where we're going to draw it from? From the weak link. Who? The farmer and the farmer, the permanent victim. The free economy party! The question is the citizen who is following us: why forty years, the payment limit, the sixty days, has been in Italy, Spain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands and the other countries? Why? We live in Greece, we live in Europe, we live in Europe! Let us go. We're with the singles. We're with the Third World. You are the 'emerging Europe'. 'We are waiting for Europe', why didn't you who have been staying in Europe for ten, twenty, thirty, forty years? Why did you not adopt the model of the strict provisions of Italy, France, Spain, Benelux? You wouldn't have to visit Hymitus and chat with the aliens. Against this House is the embassy of France. Why didn't you? Because you are the middlemen's party, not farmers and farmers. You're the Radical Party, not the Producers. You are the party of parasitic speculators, not farmers and fishermen. That's the answer. That is why forty years you have been leaving farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen and fishermen at the mercy of the intermediaries, the raniers and speculators. You haven't seen anything today. We have heard the parliamentary representative say 'Tell us something specific'. Limit, even as an informal agreement, to banks of EUR 30 000 for all kinds of properties, so also to the real estate of farmers and farmers outside, beyond electronic auctions. So this applies to both farmers and farmers. We are now coming to this, what we need to do. Leave the others, they were judged by the world. He has appreciated them and evaluated them. He expects us to correct the bad texts, because development is mainly psychology. It is necessary, through the thirteen regional conferences with the presence of the Prime Minister and the Government, to send the message of the national relaunching for new production units everywhere. Throughout the Greek region we must focus on agri-food, livestock as a priority, but also on new technologies. One hundred and sixty-five PDO designation products request producers and real investors. The solution lies in Greek agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry. "With vertical production the return to the earth and the people" is the motto. Turning back on the Greek land - wine, oil, feta - and on the Greek sea - cigarettes and sea bass, one billion exports - are like the Arabs abandoning the oil. Modern production, modern processing, attractive standardization and innovative promotion need to be done. Tourism, as the Prime Minister from Larissa said yesterday, but the thirty million tourists, all of them must - and can - taste our own agricultural, livestock, fishery and apiculture products name of origin.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u336	Mr. Triantafylides, if you please, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u337	I'll be done. The primary sector must be the navigator, ahead of development, otherwise, Minister Vangelis Apostolos, we will discuss it in the House, in interviews, in remote windows, but it will remain an inappropriate target. We've got to cut off, get some time. The proposals are specific. Each of the fifty two prefectures in the country must, for example, take the dividend of responsibility and initiative, the dividend of trust and production, by adopting a product from the crop feed cycle. Kozani? Saffron. Thrace? Beef and veal. Johnnah? Feta. Serres? The buffalo meat from the area of Kerkin. Specialising, personalising investment, through sectoral productive activities, the counties with most investment, with most jobs, to receive incentives to a lasting bid competition instead of a deterioration competition. In the next eighteen months, the remainder of 2017 and the whole of 2018 needs to be a national question to each Minister, each regional manager, each operator: ‘How many investments have you approved? How many jobs have you created this month?" A national plan to rectify Greek livestock is needed. All of this, because it is necessary to have a voice, a view, a production, a return to the earth and the people. I close with this: I call Vangelis Apostolos - in the eyes of "Apostolos" - to tour all the prefectures of the country, to reverse the recycling climate of the current misery, the fatalistic acceptance of a defeated society from the flowers of evil, unemployment, failure, powerlessness...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Triantafylide, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u339	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. We must convince the young, not the young. The Minister should invite, invite, urge, encourage, encourage investment. 'Yes' to livestock, 'yes' to agricultural modern units, 'yes' to investments. The potential exists, we just need to mobilize, get rid of bureaucracy. They need flexible shapes, flexible tripartite groups from a geotechnic, a banker and a taxmaker to directly approve small and medium-sized investments. That is what we need to develop. The world should return to the villages, the countryside, the region so that it can actually donate and create the terms and conditions so that people and citizens can eat a piece of sweet bread. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, too. Our tolerance has been exhausted, Mr. Triantafylides. Before we move on to the rapporteurs and the special speakers, the floor has been asked by the Deputy Minister, Mr Tsironis. Then we'll have the seconds. Those of my fellow Members who wish to give a second answer must inform me that the Minister will close the meeting. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. I honestly think the issue of the bill is exhausted. I have not heard any serious correspondence and no serious counter-proposal, namely that we should do something different. That it is a first step, that this is not only the Greekisms, that it is likely to react negatively to the market, the danger that they may prefer to bring the foreigners, all that we have heard, but that is not all proposals for the law. These are things that we will fight together with rural women and farmers. However, because I like to be precise and I have heard inaccuracies from a speaker, who said that we did not achieve anything and that there is still unemployment, because people are leaving outside and all this fairy tale - he says that it is false figures, it is not because unemployment has fallen, but because people have left - I will tell you a few full-time figures. Full-time employment in 2008 reached four million four hundred and fifty - seven thousand. In 2014, when we received the government, there were three million, seventy - eight thousand. You had lost, you had thrown out a million and seventy thousand workers. We're talking about full-time. Today full employment is three million five hundred nineteen thousand. In the years of our government, we have brought us two hundred and a thousand new full-time jobs. The evidence is ELSTAT's, and I'll file it right away. Only in the years of governance, Samaras - Venizelos, three hundred thousand jobs have been lost, one million two thousand lost in the years of your government. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the minutes the above figures, which are found in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Part-time 2008 was ninety thousand, in 2014 when you handed over the government was two hundred nine thousand and twoty-seven thousand today. Part-time work has indeed increased, from two hundred and sixty-seven thousand to two hundred and seventy-seven, but you forget that full employment has also increased. These are ELSTAT's numbers. Open up and see them, because I just copied them a little while ago, if they're not revised. They are data up to the second quarter of 2017, because of course the third quarter has not been able to embed inside. I would also remind you that the PMI processor has made a record in the last month with 52.2% - over 50% means growth - and it has been a record since August 2008. The processing index is a real economy indicator. They're neither the Stock Exchange nor the Radicals. Of course, that is what the report itself writes. It brought it immediately in August - because the processing increased - a record of recruitment and a record that we had to see since August 2000. This is the reality and numbers, if you want to be precise and if you want to talk and see if you have increased or decreased. Overall, the workers, if you want to see the Brain Drain, in 2008 were five million forty-five thousand. In 2014 you handed over the government was four million nineteen thousand. So, there was a lot of people out there. Now there are four million nine hundred thirty-six thousand full-time workers, employed, underemployed, unemployed, unemployed who are no longer looking for work, all together today are four million nine hundred and thirty-six thousand. It has not been reduced in these days. I'll say two words about Acheloos. Acheloos reminds of Olympiad. You did a lot, and it was a disaster for the country and the workers. Stop glamorizing. You are not offering the farmers with Acheloos. It has been said here that we really have milk imported because we are not competitive. But someone didn't say why we're not competitive. We are not competitive because our animals have a very high proportion of imported feed. Seventy percent for our producer, imported feed. Why doesn't Sardinia have feed? Because it has very good management and it has bio-production. We have now started management. This is real reform. Finally, I shall refer to the new bank. You've closed the farm. We won't cry over the shed milk. But we are starting at the moment and we hope in 2018 that we finally have the new development bank that the place needs. I have recommended to the Vice-President who is dealing with the matter that he also has a statute for a moral bank. Moral bank, for those who do not know it, means a bank that lends to people who do not have a credit rating, so that the cooperatives that are already in debt with sustainable new plans can finally come out of this nightmare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Minister, for the consistency in time. We are now passing on to the seconds of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. We'll keep five minutes of time for all, because some of you have exhausted the time of dentistry. Nevertheless, we will give everyone five minutes and I ask you to be consistent in your time so that we can complete the process as soon as possible. Mr. Karagiannis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, I will be very brief. I think that a common place, after so many hours of discussion in both committees and in plenary, is that we are dealing with a bill with clear development features that support the livestock world, production, put a order on the market and protect the Greek consumer. Let me just two comments. The first is about the regional councils - SYRIZA conferences. We must not forget that a European cell is the region, so we must develop innovative European regional programmes, in which the comparative advantages of each region will emerge. It is - I think - what we say in regional development 'organised European innovative master plan', which will help regional planning. The second comment concerns the cooperatives. Minister, I think that in the committee responsible for the production and trade of this House we should at some point, very mature and honestly, open up a dialogue on the great problem of cooperatives, and why we have come to this, not from a re-institutional process, but more so to give young farmers and young cooperatives what has happened to and destroyed our country's cooperative base. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u344	Thank you to Mr Karagiannis and to the economy in time. The rapporteur has the floor for Officer Fontaine Arabatzis for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. I'm trying to sort out what we heard during the process. I'll start with what Mr. Apostleou said. It has nothing to do with this bill. You spoke, Minister, and you were proud of the good legislative initiative you had as Minister for Rural Development, stressing, among other things, the bill - cut down, as you said, by mentioning this on grazing land, which essentially - I will not get tired of saying it - the legislative initiative that we, as a New Democracy, have handed you over to Law No 4264/2014 on the legal, legal and Community multiplication of pastures. Thank you for admitting it! Eight million acres of legal pasture without fines, natural and inexpensive pasture for farmers. It was not just you who voted against it when we brought it, but your first legislative initiative was to come and postpone the drafting of the definitive - and of course the temporary - grazing plans since 2017 that had to be completed in 2019, jeopardising the rights and what this entails for farmers' subsidies for the next programming period. Congratulations! At some point it has been heard - I think in dialogue with our parliamentary representative Mr Javarra - that you are the ones who are defending young farmers. How, Minister? You didn't answer me. I said in my prototype about the three thousand young farmers involved. Is it or isn't it? The Prime Minister promised from Kozani you'd join them. You promised me you'd join them. Will you join them after all? Because the 'bad' New Democracy was the one that 12 000 young farmers said they wanted to join the programme and the twelve thousand joined them. Not to say, of course, that you are in danger of taking out the programme of young farmers in the previous period.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u346	How much money did you promise them and how much did they get?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u347	Do you know why, Mr. Colleague, you're rushing to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u348	Don't open a dialogue. Respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u349	Because three years later, you have not completed the necessary technical training for young farmers, a condition necessary to get the money. And if training is not completed, these people risk giving the money back. Now, what can I say about Mr Triantafylides and what he said you are the ones defending the rights of fishermen and farmers? Really? For it was us, Minister, who gave you an operational fishing and sea programme of EUR 520,000, 000, in which - and to be heard in this House today, in 2017, you have 0.74% absorption and EUR 100,000, 000, now risk not being absorbed until the end of the year. Is that true, Minister? Are you the ones who are interested in farmers? How? Let me remind you that we have changed the mix of agricultural production in this programme period to direct payments for livestock, giving farmers EUR 150,000 000 per year more than plant production. We were the ones who gave coupled reinforcement to livestock refreshments. We were the ones who provided related aid to gild milk and a number of other measures. In relation to this bill, I said it was a bill with good intentions. However, as I have explained, it is practically inappropriate. This bill, ladies and gentlemen of the government, will remain in history as the bill that drives out and excludes farmers for the first time - to be heard - by the Agency's board of directors responsible for assessing and returning its allowances, namely by ELGA. You are the government that excludes farmers from the ELGA board, of course not showing the same sensitivity to the payment of compensation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, with your tolerance. They have been waiving, Minister, compensation since 2015. Why, ladies and gentlemen, are they pending? Firstly, why you have wiped out the reserves, the EUR 50,000 000 since 2015 that you have never returned, because, as the Minister said, you are exploiting them for the benefit of ELGA and, secondly, more importantly, because you have abolished travel. He said the Minister has a financial cost. Mercy! It's a reward account. Every farmer every time he's destroyed pays an end. So you abolished the journeys of the ELGA valuers, so you lose the value project. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u350	Who put the OGA into the general government agencies?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u351	Mr. Antonio, please. Complete, Mrs. Arabaji, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u352	As far as - and I will close with this - the intention of the Minister, which has naturally emerged since 2016, to bring a law to regulate the issue of the injustice suffered by the people who preside over and by the members of the Governing Council of the cooperatives on the matter of suspension, please for the relevant legislative initiative and not for regularisations. Why should we simply remind the House that this regulation was a 2013 law, which your own government came and abolished. And to be precise, we are talking about those who - especially young people - are clearly wrong, we are not talking about any kind of extinction, of any kind of prosecution. The offences are not recorded during the suspension until compulsory liquidation is effected, the claims of the public and the insurance funds are not dropped, and it is certainly not for those who have been sentenced irrevocably, by fraud or negligence. We are therefore waiting for the relevant legislative initiatives. I wanted to say more, but time is pushing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u353	Unfortunately, we don't have another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u354	Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, too. The reason is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr. Michalis Jelelis, for five minutes. As long as you can all be consistent in your time. Here you go, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u356	I'll limit myself to the bill we're talking about, even though I hear numbers. They prosper, you see, the numbers on the government side, but I don't know what the Greek people say. I hear about'maintaining Europe', and we are being denounced, some others are doing air bullies and they stay with four in Europe. The Greek people have learned you now. He knows what you were saying, what you are doing and what you are doing every day in terms of political management. That's enough, that's enough. That is why I have stressed from the outset that, while it has good intentions and we wanted to contribute to dialogue from the outset, we have had objections. I have to say to you enough that we were heard by the Minister and added to the bill. That's enough left. Why, then, do we object to their dialogue? Because the intentions are not enough. We know what our people say: The way to hell is with the best intentions. We have experience from the law of 2013. I have heard Mr Triantafyllidis say 'why did you not do it', he says 'what the Europeans have done in thirty days'? For 2013, the payment of 30 days applies. Just there was the parameter, the agreement between the two parties to be above the law. Poor thing. The law remained inactive. Today, however, we have more here, and we are coming here to avoid these. This bureaucratic system of control over millions of invoices through the banks will be controlled? Is it going to work? Here are our objections, in relation to the traceability of the meat all the way. You know this is not going to solve the matter with the weighing machines and the cash you're putting now. Why don't you bring all the range of traceability of meat - as I said - from the stable to the plate? From production to the slaughterhouse, to the manufacturing industry to retail? We only focused it on the butcher. I hear a lot about cooperatives. Others blatantly, but everyone loves them, because they know very well that if there is no possible cooperative movement there can be no strong rural economy. And what were we doing here today? Goddamn it all, we're going to do something new. Like every government, it's very interesting. In time, post-military terms, every government whenever it came was bringing in a law on cooperatives. Why did he do that? Because he knows very well that the cooperatives have social intervention and wanted to transfer party orders and cheques over time through the cooperative movement to the rural area. Did you avoid that? Oh, no. You brought laws and you continue with amendments. And now you come and accept the parliamentary amendment, where you change, he says, an APM if he didn't predict what the law had a year and a half ago, and you abolish it. What are you guys retiring at? ICPs are public limited companies. And you're doing it without putting a transitional order. This one hides a lot. And I would ask, Minister, that a transitional provision be introduced for these IPAs that have this problem, because it seems that this problem is not now, it is the first time that Law 4015 and the law that you voted since 2016 have been passed. And you're coming with an amendment now. Why would you do that? Are some cooperatives in this PD, and they happen to be in the villages of some people and have made decisions about it, that they owe? That's why I'm asking for a transitional period. I am talking about the amendment 'Agricultural Partnerships Solution'. For the cooperative movement, too, that I did not mention at all and was not heard here, you when you voted on the cooperatives law in 2016, said in your explanatory statement on the representation of cooperatives at secondary and tertiary level that it was up to the partners and cooperatives to choose how they will be organized. And you come here today and say that you will make the federations of agricultural cooperatives at regional level and that you will then make the confederation of cooperative representation at third level. What changed in a year? I'll tell you clearly what's changed. You have just seen that in terms of the voluntary expression of the partners at secondary and tertiary level you cannot control anyone, now you come and intervene with the law, if you can have expression as a party site with some people. It won't pass you because you don't have an expression in the mass movements anywhere. It's your pure intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Jelloney, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u358	And to close, Mr President, to say something important. We have asked for an amendment tabled, which seems to have been accepted, to suspend prosecution to the cooperatives, all of what has been said. It has been accepted by several parties, but it has also been accepted by the Minister. The morning he tabled the Ministry's amendment was inside and you know it well. It was inside and clearly said that Articles 1, 4, 6, 16, 18, 19 and Article 19a(1) of Law 4015 are repealed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u359	Mr. Jelloney, please, please, get it done. You've already reached seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u360	That is what we have been asking for with the amendment. I'm saying this to see how badly you legislate. And you will then come to the amendment that you have tabled to bring about improvements in legislation. I ask, Mr President, is this the case? Legal improvement on the amendment? So Mr Chironis puts forward a legislative improvement, which excludes this. And that's all that shows your curiosity. That is why I have said from the outset that the bill is in a positive direction, but with the sloppyness that you see in everything, we really have serious concern that you are not able to implement this bill, which could offer a lot to the rural world.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Mr. Ioannis Sahinides, special speaker of the People's League - Golden Dawn, has the floor for five minutes. Please at least keep the time, because we've gone too far.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u362	I won't need all the time. It was heard several times today for the sixty days. It is not a matter of sixty days, Minister, as a time limit for payment of farmers' crops. We have told you on several occasions also in other committees and in other bills that it is a question of safeguarding revenue. With regard to the cheque, which has been mentioned so many times in here, the time mentioned on the cheque - I will not teach you economic lessons, they are simple things and I believe that most of you know it - the date on the cheque is a pure date that has to do with the matter of trust between those who are traded. The check always writes up "laughter on appearance", so I don't understand why any producer, like a dealer, can't go and collect it automatically. So here, Minister, there is one issue and there is the proposal that we have repeatedly tabled to you as Golden Dawn: ensure the revenues of farmers with bank cheques, because each trader's personal cheques that can be 'cannon' at any time, and unfortunately in the crisis we have seen on several occasions, are not a solution. We heard Mr. Triantafylides talking about seizures. The fact that up to EUR 300,000 is being extended to a dying man is not a solution. Vote if you can - and be sure that we will support it too - the confiscation of any house. It is not a solution to give an extension by December. The first residence we have said should not be confiscated in any way. And it's not about celebrating. As it is not to celebrate last year's bill which, while all of Greece had to deal with a minority, well or badly, no one mentioned the sale of the red loan portfolio of 3% of the value of Eurobank's red loan portfolio, from 1.5 billion to a few thousand euros. I didn't hear any of you mention it in here. We have heard about numbers that prospered for the days of New Democracy and the days of PASOK. The only numbers that prospered at the time - someone mentioned for the cooperative movement - were the numbers of the purse of the presidents of agricultural cooperatives and associations. I have told you on several occasions: if you want to know who has served as president, either in PHS or in rural associations in the province, take a walk to the village and you will understand from home who the president was in the New Democracy Governments and PASOK governments. The crisis has not been present for seven years. When, in some forty thousand acres, thirty thousand acres of peaches were declared and another thirty thousand acres of corn and another thirty thousand acres of beets and another thirty thousand acres of cotton and receiving subsidies, we cannot count as stupid Europeans to give us subsidies by seeing that the crop area is much smaller than what they were saying. I told you another time that the peaches at least once declared were half the Aegean and every year the fields came down five points from the soil that they put on the withdrawal. These were projects by previous governments. Unfortunately, some things are still tolerated today, Minister. Today's draft law is on the right track, we would say, but you could improve it much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, too, for the economy in time. Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr President. Because a lot has been heard, I would like to go back to yesterday's mockery, the fieste set up in Larissa. It was not set up by the coup d'état on its own, it had the contribution, the support of New Democracy officials, the New Democracy itself, because, despite the individual differences, you are serving the same strategic objective, the monopolies. In yesterday's fiesta was first and best, the Governor of Thessaly, the leading executive of the New Democracy. They were also top officials of the New Democracy from the rural and livestock farming area, who had participated here and at the hearing. Of course, they were all applauding anti-population policy. What did the Prime Minister say yesterday to Larissa in poor farmland? It's reheated soup. He spoke about the Rural Development Programme, the development model for rural areas, namely the acceleration of capitalist growth, agricultural production, through the strengthening of profitability and competition. You're consistent. You are zealously implementing the guidelines, the objectives of the common agricultural policy. Through competition, larger capitalist companies will be strengthened and created in the primary sector. Through this process, the largest funds will be able to displace the smaller ones. This is objective in today's way of developing that exists in our country. At the same time, however, small and medium-sized farmers will continue to be affected by the policy pursued which supports processing monopolies, large capitalist rural enterprises. In fact, what the Prime Minister and the ministers said yesterday in the poorer medium-sized farms in Thessaly, which is left behind, was to become entrepreneurs. Of course, the core of your bill, despite the noise you have raised, aims at one thing to disorientate poor medium-sized farms, farmers. That is why we say that all urban parties are being demolished for the importance of the primary sector, for the need, as you say, of productive reconstruction, for the overthrow of the productive model to become the engine of the economy. But you are making fun of the farmers, trying to hide that primary production through the rotten system is determined, ultimately subjected to relations which are of benefit to the big trader, the industrialist, the banks, that is, the very capitalist way of production. That is why we say that you are mocking, because you are not saying that in capitalism what is being produced, what is being imported and what is being exported, and the prices you are saying you will be guaranteed in the world are determined by the monopoly profit, whether the products are labelled or not. This is why Greece is a deficit especially in livestock products, which it could produce, but also in other products. Now we have to give some answers to some who have tried to distort the positions of the JRC, first and foremost Mr Tsironi, who has not done so for the first time. Mr. Tsironis made it clear that the JRC considers that farmers are incapable of cutting invoices, making electronic transactions. Is that what you understand, Mr. Cironi? The parliamentary representative of our party has also been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u365	I didn't mention to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u366	We have said that your policy has thrown them out and abandoned them, especially those who are in mountainous areas in extensive livestock farming.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u367	I didn't mention to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u368	We have said this that they do not have the infrastructure to respond to the new burdens you bear on them. Of course we did not have the requirement to understand, Mr. Deputy Minister, the positions of the JRC. We'd be worried if you understood them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u369	I didn't mention to you. Another speaker said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u370	Minister, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u371	I didn't mention to you, how do we do it? He was another speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u372	Mr. Chironi, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u373	Don't open a dialogue, Mr. Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u374	Of course, we must also refer to others, particularly to a SYRIZA Member who had the courage to say that we are fighting the same issues. No, Mrs. Bulletina, you have chosen a camp. You fight for capitalist farms. You are also applauded by BSE, as another SYRIZA Member has said. It applauds you and the Association of Greek Industrialists!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u375	Is that the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u376	Yesterday in Larissa you told the farmers to become entrepreneurs. You're fighting for them. We're on the opposite bank. We are fighting for the problems of poor medium-sized farms. We are showing another development path where the primary sector will have a central design aimed at meeting the nutritional needs of our people and ensuring income for farmers, but also contributing to quality of life, to education, to sport, to the Greek countryside. But the ANLL spokesman was also provocative. With courage he said that 'we are pursuing a proper policy in the rural area and that is why farmers are not mobilised, so there are no mobilisations'. He wanted ANLL Spokesman to smell the grand struggles of the poor medium-sized farm, the blogs and forty-nights of the race in 2016 and for one month in 2017. Through this race the farmers won the tax. You were forced and given the tax free, and you stopped, even temporarily, Mr Apostleu, the farmhouses. Of course, don't think you're over with the farmers. As your anti-agricultural policy grows, the more it takes, the more it becomes, the more it grows, and the struggles of the poor medium-sized farms. Now I would like to say a word to Mr Charakopoulos. He said that when he was in the Ministry he refused to raise the days in fresh milk. He did not, however, tell us that when the third memorandum was passed, and he and his resignation called a great 'yes'. And within the third memorandum was the OECD toolbox, which gives release for raw milk and we have the adverse effects on Greek farmers. The JRC, with all its powers, will be here and there in the struggles of the poor, medium-sized farm. It will put pressure on the government in all directions on the European Union, on the European Parliament, to find solutions to their problems. However, we are clearly telling them that a solution will be found in the organized struggle, in the social alliance with the other people's layers, first and foremost with the working class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr. Moraite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u378	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u379	Mr. Chironi, he didn't say anything. Please, please, let the speakers finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u380	For a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u381	We can't open a dialogue now. Mr Apostle will answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u382	I won't open a dialogue. It's about me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u383	He didn't say anything on personal grounds, he didn't offend you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u384	Please give me the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u385	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u386	It's very simple. When I talked about what you said, I wasn't talking about the JRC. You weren't inside when that speaker was talking. If we don't get personal, I don't want to say his name. I was talking about completely another speaker. No relationship with your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u387	All right, Minister. It's clear. Thank you for your intervention. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to begin with a comment on a position made by my colleague, PASOK, who said that they had voted in 2013, the agreement that the farmer would have made with the trader strong as a private agreement. Powerful is a private agreement, when both parties have the same power. We cannot between a lion and a rabbit say that the private contract is stronger and that we will not take any protection against the rabbit. As you can see, this agreement was at the expense of the less powerful, that is, the farmer. I'm on my way. We have heard a number of things here and we have heard various positions from both parties. They were moving the finger. In any case, they were the ones that shrank agriculture from 23%, which was in the 1980s, to 3%. You know, in 1980-81, when we entered the EEC, agriculture was 23% with a share of 10.5 billion in GDP, in absolute terms, and in 2014 they delivered to that government agriculture to 3% - not to say 2.8% with a reduction in GDP in normality, to accept 3% - and to absolute amounts, 5 to 5.5 billion. That is from 10.5 billion, which was in the 1980s handed it over to 5.5 billion in 2014. So you see who is responsible for the country's destruction. During the period during which they ruled, two million acres of mountainous and semi-urban pastures were abandoned in Thrace thanks to their "successful" rural policy. A million four hundred thousand acres of crop were abandoned in the Peloponnese, thanks to their "successful" rural policy. Here I would like to stress the following: within the five years of the crisis, i.e. from 2010 to 2014, they have reduced GDP by about 28%. Syria, in a war situation all these years, do you know what a contraction it had in GDP? It was down 28%, that is to say, while these two parties were shrinking in the five years of the crisis, GDP. You understand how successful a policy they did! They closed down the Agricultural Bank, as I commented this morning on the Step of the Plenary Settlement, shut down the Commercial Bank, and closed the Post Bank. Three banks! And the Post Office had the best debt-to-deposit relationship, i.e. in no case could anyone question the health of the Post Bank. Now I'm going to tell you something else, because the positive figures, the positive performance of this government have been questioned. I will tell you what he said in his speech a few days ago at the opening of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, the President of the International Exhibition, who you know is not a party to the coup d'état. The International Exhibition is the mirror of Greece's economy and traditionally, from there every year we get data. He provided evidence and said that in 2014 the International Exhibition had four hundred thousand visitors and in 2016 he had a million visitors, that is, more than twice. Watch out now. The financial figures in the report are as follows. In 2014 the exhibition had 525 thousand loss in its accounts. I mean, he had a mess, so to speak with the popular expression, 525 thousand. In 2016 he had 400 thousand profits and made provision for 20% over this year. All of this shows that he starts to turn around, thanks to this government, the economy. One more thing. In 2013, the International Exhibition worked for eighty-seven days. In 2016 it worked for two hundred eighty days. Three times over. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. In 2013, the Thessaloniki International Exhibition had a thousand fifteen exhibitors. In 2017 he had a thousand five hundred. It's 50% up. I have already heard a colleague from New Democracy saying that these two parties are not responsible for the crisis, the crisis has come so, in general. That is, 120% of GDP debt came on its own, these two parties didn't bring it! And then, in the 180% that they took it, he went alone again, these two parties are not responsible! In any case, the comments made by all international actors are positive. In fact, all these are old friends of theirs, and indeed, they were wars of this government. Before the 2015 elections, everyone in their positions and in their statements they made advised, indirectly, the world to vote on these two parties and not the two parties of co-government. I have here some of Lagard's statements from the International Monetary Fund, which said that the fund does not ask for any new measures. I'll tell you now why I'm reading Lagard's statements. Lagard said she didn't ask for any new measures. This government, you know, is being fought by all those who at the time these two parties ruled, fed with sea-loving, with various grants, etc. So now they have reason to fight this government, because this government houses the place, houses things. Is "KATHMERINI" coming out today and what does she say on her first page? He says: “The IMF shows new measures. It estimates that the primary surplus in 2018 will be 2.2% of GDP and shows new measures." This is the front page of “KATHMERINI”. I'll testify for the Minutes. I will also present this, which is from the website 'KATHMERINI'. What's he saying here? He says: “IMF: Revision of objectives and not measures for the 2018 surplus.” So, which one of the two is telling the truth? That, you know, he'll hang himself in the handkerchiefs, the whole world will pass and he'll read it. But what are they doing? It's what we've said many times. This way, they direct public opinion and masses. I'm putting it down for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u390	I shall conclude, Mr President. Clearly, the bill is positive and as I said in my position earlier, the Independent Greeks support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. We complete the series of seconds of the rapporteurs and the special speakers with the special speaker of the river, Mr Amyras. You have the floor for five minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I have just read a news about the murder of the lawyer Zafiropoulou, the son of the former MP Emena Zafiropoulou, at his house in Exarchia, and it is something shocking. I'm just transferring it to the Hall. The counterterrorism has gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u393	Condolences from all of us in his family.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u394	Of course, condolences and I hope that this case will be resolved. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a comment first on some of the points Mr Chironis has referred to unemployment. Mr. Tsironi, I will address you. I'd like your attention a little. For the data on unemployment, I want to say. I would say that we should be more careful about reading the numbers. They're not simple, they're puking numbers. They represent people who are saddened and crushed by the millstones of unemployment. Yes, unemployment fell by 3.7% - right - and full employment. And each one of us, if unemployment is reduced by one millennium, should feel satisfied and put it even more powerfully, each one of us, in order to reduce further. However, I would say to you that you read page 78 of the Bank of Greece's report on monetary policy, issued in June - three months ago - and it says the following: For every new job created by 2015 and paid for EUR 900, today - hence the drop in unemployment numerically - two seats of 400 euros are created. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u395	Full-time!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u396	I'm talking about full-time. Enter and see the exhibition of the Bank of Greece. I'm telling you it's on page 78. Come on, google, look at it. In other words, unemployment is not enough. The jobs and jobs created must be qualitative and well paid. That is our issue with unemployment. So how is it, during a recession in 2015 and anaemic growth in 2016, that we have jobs paid the same as in the pre-recession period? You can't do that. It's not financial. Enter and read all the data to get an image and understand how unemployment is falling and why we have reached the generation of 400 euros. Besides, I do not recall that several ministers of this government have careered by petrifying the generation of EUR 700 and now signing the generation of EUR 400 with their two hands. So this is about unemployment. Let's go down. Primary production, standardization, excellence of Greek products, return of young people to vineyards, olive groves, seas and the fields is the only one, I would say, a safe road that will lead us to an exit from this tunnel and the clearing. In what environment, however, will the people of primary production be integrated? In what natural environment? With what protection mechanisms? Should we talk - have I heard the colleague who said it - about wine and vineyards? Who put a special end to the wine, what government? SYRIZA - ANEL Government. What are we talking about? Who took the farm supplies to 24% to get them down after the outcry and 23% long? The government of SYRIZA - ANEL. So good words and general words, but in practice the result seems to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u397	Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u398	And if we leave and overcome the huge obstacles, the raisins, the taxes, and all that, that pursue primary production, you tell me in what natural environment, with what protection mechanisms.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u399	The 125 million...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u400	Let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u401	Please don't start the dialogue. Respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u402	Why did you do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u403	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u404	Mr. Amyras, don't open the dialogue too. Finish it. You see I'm trying to protect you. Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u405	I say, therefore, that primary production should be developed. For its own part, however, and with good laws, we do not have time to do anything when we do not guarantee the natural environment in which it will develop. Let me not remind you of the Saronic oil spill, where a moderate and small shipwreck evolved into an ecological disaster. I therefore insist that if we give young people a head start, who want to return to the earth, or even further develop their rural, business activity on earth, then we will have a hole in the water. In conclusion, let me say that we will be voting in favour of the draft law. Some amendments do not make it possible to vote on them. I will say it at the time of the vote. And I would ask that, in reading numbers relating to unemployment, we all be more careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr Javarras, a Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has been asked to intervene on his dentistry. Mr. Javarra, I'll give you five minutes. Please be precise too. And the Minister will close the meeting, Mr Apostleu, and he will for five minutes. Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u407	First of all, I would like to express my personal and sadness to all the Members of the New Democracy in the message of the cold execution of Michael Zafiropoulou, a fellow lawyer, a fighter of the New Democracy and a man whose passage, indeed, was full of struggles for democracy and freedom. The hand of these men is evidently not armed with any dark power, but is from the daily quality of political life and public life that is constantly falling away and losing in value and principles. I believe that these phenomena should be stigmatized, stigmatized and lead to a strengthening of all democratic forces, a common front to those who undermine every principle of parliament and every sense of democracy. People's sovereignty is really in such masculine acts of poverty. It is here, instead of giving the example of a confrontation based on arguments, unfortunately, on a daily basis, we hear from all the wings of this House that it is literally poor, that the parliamentary speech is shrinking, and that it is replaced by insults, daily episodes of behaviour which has nothing to do with the traditions of parliamentaryism that have actually been in this Chamber and have grown up, but have been established for many decades. I would therefore like to make two points on what has been said before. Ladies and gentlemen, in the memory of Michalis Zahiropoulos, and also of the duty that we all have as representatives of the Greek people, in this Chamber to try to overcome sterile and barren disputes, and above all not to give space to the word of hatred and division. I have already listened to a colleague - I will start with that, and then I will end up with the Deputy Minister for Rural Development - who, by addressing our own party, said that we are the middlemen's party. That is not a political argument. That's an awkward! Anyone who does not have the guts and who does not have the power of the soul, the mind, and the scientific documentation that requires such an invocation and such an address to his opponent remains a barren, a useless hybrid, who literally directs to specific persons, to specific political people the weapons of those who do not understand from democracy. And I will tell you, Mr President, that you said exactly that phrase against the New Democracy, so you know, that when the New Democracy was legislating for many decades now - I do not know if you were in Parliament, when I went up to Stepma - there was a law, n. It is true that the Council has not yet reached a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work and on the proposal for a Council Directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. There, then, we, who tell us brokers, have included a provision which punishes the behaviour of those who, on behalf of traders, for those who buy goods, negotiate on their behalf. These are the middlemen. Is there a corresponding provision in this provision brought by you? Is there a similar prediction that this act you anticipate and call it a trade transaction other than those that operate as traders, for the same reason and for the same reason, should there also exist it and be treated by those who, as negotiators on behalf of the first ones, lead many people to mislead and take production and then go after them, to get their money? So what is it with arguments from the mediators' party? Those who had foresee the behaviour of intermediaries, or those who, today, on the occasion of this legislation, and in the context of this terrible crisis that is going through all the productive world, fail to predict as a self-evident violation of the same penalty for those who are intermediaries? That is why, since I sincerely do not want to exacerbate the spirits at this critical time, what I am obliged to say as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy and in the memory of the man who has been lost, addressing all the wings, is that we must all show a spirit of democratic discipline so that what always prevails in this Chamber is the best argument rather than the most blatant curse.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u408	Please complete, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u409	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Deputy Minister, you told us that we gave the Agricultural Bank. You still suspect in the same error. Why do you imagine someone listening to you considering that this or this Member or this congressman is the ones who gave the Bank to the one who has it today? And in any case, for three years, have you investigated this case? In this very act Mr Provopoulou took place, precisely within the framework of the particular privileges he has as Governor of the Bank of Greece. And because I have actually investigated this case personally, I remember a former SYRIZA MEP who, in a Commission, promised us that SYRIZA would investigate this case. So tell me, Mr. Deputy Minister of Agriculture, have you made this commitment so that you can come to us today and tell us that we have given or spared this Bank?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u410	Mr. Javarra, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u411	Who gave it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u412	You tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u413	Please don't open a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u414	These kinds of reports, when they are made in such a way, come and talk about it who gave it. However, you cannot address the representatives of the Greek people who have been elected in this Chamber with the party of the New Democracy, saying that they have been arrested and intactly serving such interests. This is abusive, and that is just a one-stop hate that divides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u415	Mr. Javarra, please complete this. You've reached nine minutes, my tolerance is exhausted. Finish in ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u416	You're welcome, Mr. President. Anyone with arguments must say it here and listen to the representative. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber, one cannot have the right to refer to any matter in this Chamber and when the person representing the representation is given the floor, there must be restrictions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u417	We know that if we leave you, you'll talk all night. That's why there's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u418	That's very basic, and you know why? Because in this Chamber, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House, discussions are held not only against the opposite, but mainly against the opposite. If, then, you let someone throw the sperms against his opponents and you don't give opponents the opportunity and the possibility of reversing them, from there on, the phenomena see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. We can't help it anymore, please. Please help it. You've reached ten minutes already. You're embarrassing me and you know I'm not one of the people who won't let you finish. We've heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u420	And one last thing. Since Keynes has published his periodic work on the general theory of employment, we all know that, in order to achieve a sustainable reduction in unemployment, it will have to be associated with growth, with increasing growth rates. How it has succeeded - and I conclude - the government with zero growth by 2016 has increased by 280 thousand, as the Deputy Minister for Agriculture, employment, said, this is a matter which, in fact, falls to the levels of magic and not to the levels of economic science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u422	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u423	Mr President, I request the floor. He put words in my mouth I didn't say!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u424	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u425	No, Mr. Lazarides. Please, just a second to determine the procedure. Mr. Xydakis has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u426	Mr President, for a minute and I am asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Lazarides, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u428	Mr President, I made the complaint about the agricultural case...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u429	Please, may I preside? Why would I give you the floor? You can't take the floor right now. The Deputy Minister will answer and the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u430	Mr President, with all due respect, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u431	Why would you ask for a reason? You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u432	Because I made the complaint about the agricultural case, and I want to say two words for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u433	I was not talking about you, but about the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u434	He didn't mention to you what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u435	Mr President, I request the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u436	Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u437	I denounced that the parties voted for an amendment which made the grant of the two parties inappropriate, which they had already received, so that they would not return money to the Agricultural Fund. I made this complaint, and then, when the Agriculture Committee sent out for this act to the two parties, they sold it within twenty days to Piraeus for 90-95 million, while only the debt of the two parties was 200 million. The New Democracy must respond to this, not generally and vaguely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u438	Good, it's clear, Mr. Lazarides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u439	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u440	Minister, just wait a minute to say something I want and then I'll give you the floor. I'd like to, too, for my part...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u441	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u442	Mr. Javarra, please. I, for my part, and the Bureau, would like to express my deepest sympathy for the deceased, Mr Zafiropoulou, and to say that we also condemn all murderous acts as a Parliament of the Greeks. Slow down to his family. Warm condolences for the late. Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u443	Thank you, Mr President. My teacher was telling me to be wasted in my remarks and glamorous in my conclusions. I did not appreciate the fact that the farmers were given, I said 'you simply gave the farmers'. If you're questioning it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u444	You said the amount.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u445	I didn't say any money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u446	I remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u447	I said, 'You have given the CAP'. Read the Minutes. I'm expensive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u448	I read the minutes. With 97 million, you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u449	If you dispute that you gave it to us, then tell us who gave it to us, because I know it was given.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u450	I didn't give anything, though. If you're in the second plural, you include me, I've never given anything. Look what you're giving.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u451	Secondly, you cannot give up on us, Mr. Javarra...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u452	Look what you're giving, because you might find yourself accountable at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u453	Mr. Javarra, don't open a dialogue. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u454	Mr. Javarra, you had lessons a while ago and I didn't speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u455	Please, Mr. Javarra!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u456	Mr. President, will you keep me safe? I have not interrupted anyone, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u457	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u458	Mr. Javarra, you talk and you don't sound because the microphone's off.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u459	But Mr Javarras, as a speaker, took lessons in education and decency earlier because he dared to whisper something. And now, I'm interrupted and proved by the "teacher you've been teaching." I'm not letting you interrupt me! You keep doing it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u460	Minister, on the subject. Please finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u461	The nerve doesn't belong to you or me! Please respect your role! You did lessons a little while ago for the speaker. You're more entitled to interrupt me? I have shown the House, which has voted on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Did I talk about Mr. Javarra? They've got the fly, it smells!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u462	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u463	Secondly, you spoke of the miracle. The evidence I deposited in the minutes is ELSTAT's evidence. You don't like reality. ELSTAT, then, today, in 2017, when wages first increased since 2008, - read the figures - says that the average full-time wage is EUR 1,100 and the average part-time wage is EUR 400. So the information I mentioned is for full-time workers. Whether you like it or not, in the two years Samara - Venizelos, three thousand full-time jobs have been lost. In our two-and-a-half years - full employment has increased forty-one thousand jobs. Get the evidence. Whether you like it or not, that's reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u464	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u465	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u466	No, I can't, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u467	I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u468	He didn't say anything on personal grounds. Please help the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u469	Mr President, I want the floor for a minute. Talk about courage!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u470	If you speak, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u471	Whatever you want. Whatever the President says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u472	Mr President, it's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u473	He has a right to say about on-call, to analyze...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u474	I have the right, under the Rules of Procedure, to ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u475	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u476	You will not judge that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u477	How do you judge it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u478	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u479	Stop, permanently infringing the Rules of Procedure. I'm addressing the President. The president is the one to decide. You have no right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u480	Of course, we have a right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u481	None. Unless we make collective management of the Presidency here. We are not going to be a collector!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u482	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Did you find yourself doing this to me? Mr Javarra, you have the floor to develop what you want for a minute to complete, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u483	I want the floor, so that I can give the Vice-President and the other colleagues to understand what I meant. I would just say one thing: if I followed his example and his style, I should say to him: "And you committed the property of the Greek State for ninety-nine years". I do not, however, do, for precisely because I avoid drinking in these kinds of atrocious andbusive phrases. That is the difference in our level. This is the difference between moral and cultural examples, which we neo-democrats and gentlemen serve on the other hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u484	It's clear and the whole process is over. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor for five minutes for your denology. Please don't give up any more time to close up with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u485	I would like to make an addition to this for the Minister to close at a meeting, which was probably a good climate, except for some minor explosions. As far as the brutal murder of Michael Zahiropoulos is concerned, we, too, as a parliamentary group, as a political world and as Members of the SYRIZA are concerned, express the painful and dissatisfaction with this act. However, I would like to say that we do not rush to give it a political colour. It's a murder. We have no official announcement from the authorities, no official announcements. We don't know what happened. If the deceased, the barracks murdered were a member of the New Democracy, we are conducive to the New Democracy. But that's as far as it goes. Let's wait and see how things turn out. Let's not give any political color. As far as the acidification is concerned, which the friend Mr Javarras complains about, I think he also contributed to an acidification tonight. He was irritable, eloquent, defender of a tranquility. However, those who are disturbing this calm and decency and one reason, which is appropriate to parliamentaryism, should look for them, not only in the opposing parliamentary groups, but also in his own parliamentary group. Let them see who has honored democracy and its customs and who have been praisers of the junta, the totalitarianism and the blatant speech. Let him be in this Chamber the day before yesterday, Mr. Javaras listened to who they are talking about, how: who are defending humanity, empathy, charity and the deepest essence of democracy, and who cry out as Greeks and teleshoppers and teleshoppers? We all suspect at some point in linguistic slipping, in exacerbations, we have our failures, but let us not call conceived political groups, political spaces and groups of people, who each have their long history on their backs, their personal space and their politics. The left has her sins, she has her burdens, she has her mistakes, but she doesn't have the mercifulness of any pigeon, no pimp and no axeboat. Let's make this clear so that we don't get any impressions. Nice conversations, nice rhetoric, nice disputandum, nice confrontation and controversy, but don't forget who we are. Everyone's carrying his story. Thirty, forty, fifty years. Personal history, not collective. You claim the collective history of the New Democracy and the conservative resignation. What can the left-wing party of socialism say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u486	I'm her liberal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u487	Yes, and the liberal tradition you betrayed yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u488	I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u489	The liberal tradition has been betrayed by your resignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u490	You want to talk about it? You're opening a discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u491	So let's stay here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u492	Let us not open a dialogue, Mr Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u493	Let us stay in a law which tries to regulate the market and defend the rights of producers and their existence. We all agreed on this, despite small variations. Let's stay there and let's leave the talk about radars, middlemen, compassers, etc., in the glorious '80s and '90s, in which many words have been heard and Greece has been driven to the rocks of bankruptcy and humiliation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u495	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u496	What do you want, Mr. Amyras? If everyone asks for the floor right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u497	In twenty seconds I'll be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u498	What's this about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u499	I would like to talk about an inaccuracy Mr. Chironis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u500	Irregularity as to what? So, we're all gonna start talking about inaccurate?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u501	For unemployment and wages. Mr. Tsironi, the average monthly salary in the public sector is EUR 1,075, in the private sector EUR 777. In the first half of 2017, private earnings fell by 1.7% and I tell you to be more careful when invoking data on unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u502	All right, Mr. Amyras, it was clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u503	They'll think we're living in another world when you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u504	You want me to get the evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u505	Mr. Amyra is clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u506	Where? In the private sector? It matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u507	Open a dialogue, let's see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u508	Please don't open a dialogue. Shots fired outside, and here you opened bombs. Let's finish. Come on, Minister, for five minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] The Minister will talk. Please, please, respect the Minister, to complete the process. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u509	I would also like to express my grief at the murder of Zafiropoulou. We condemn such actions. However, what the Greek people, the rural world, are waiting for, by completing this process, is finally to see what has been requested for years and come to a regulation, which I would say is also a peculiar one today. From the committees, up to today - either with reservations or others in a positive direction, except for the parties, which are against the country's European path - there was essentially a positive approach to this regulation. Are we emitting this, yes or no? That's the point. I think the House, with its sitting today, despite the individual variations, has done so. I watched, you know, some of the statements made by colleagues from anti-population, who, while there was this view, because they were not at ease - thinking 'but it is possible for me to have such a position in a draft law brought by the government' - were provoking the principle that these arrangements cannot be implemented. Please! Honestly, let us go. Do you not want to help us implement these regulations, because you want us to fail? The Greek society is asking. Let us apply these regulations. But it must be made clear: your positions vis-à-vis these regulations are not about diagrams and round and diagrams. Are you in favour of these settings, yes or no? Does the rural area need them, yes or no? That's the point. There have been a number of issues, which I think I should like to take up in the time that you have given me, Mr President. First of all, the question of what is going to happen with the processors has been constantly going on. In this process of payments, processors, cooperatives, farmers are one side. The other side is the middlemen, it's the stores. So there is protection for processors, the same as for farmers, for producers. One is that. Secondly, I have heard Mr Javarra say that we have brought the regulation and what is going to happen with them, who are doing procedures, other than what we anticipate. Look, they're outlawing. Today, in order to be able to mediate, buy, sell, if not registered in that register, it cannot do so. He's outlawing it. It's clear. I come to the question of liquidity, which is really a very serious issue today for the rural area. I want to speak with examples. I see Mr. Karayannis here. In Epirus, livestock farming is a sector that we need. We have a huge problem meeting the needs of livestock meat. If tomorrow one plants a livestock unit and starts the rearing process, you know that one rearing lasts forty two days, then let all the procedures last forty days. How many breeds is this year? Six rearings. So now he's at his beginning, but all year and for the six breeders the liquidity has it in the store. He's a prisoner himself. So, in this process, how can it function by leaving it with the prior arrangement, unless the parties decide otherwise? So we come, and very simply, support this, by imposing these conditions. Some of you said: "And why so rush?" We give them time limits. We are not saying that this is now beginning, particularly as regards, for example, payments. We have until the end of the year plus sixty days. We know that this is a big deal, but we give him the time to adapt. They say, on the other hand, 'How do we manage, when will we do this procedure for compulsory registration?'. We give them the opportunity six months after the law was passed to adapt. Why? Because there is an absolute need to protect the Greek farmer. That was said by some. What if a processing plant wants to use for a product and Greek milk and imported? There is no discount in this procedure. It will either be 100% Greek or there is no milk. This must be understood. We want to support Greek livestock farming. It was said, in fact, that the regulation gave us the procedure to determine the path. The Ministerial Decision, from the stable to the meat shop, is ready, we have just wanted to bring this regulation in, so that when it comes to FEK this regulation, at the same time it will take FEK and this procedure to tie it up, because there are indeed too many reactions, but it cannot be understood, because these reactions exist. To report the country of origin on meat or milk milk, what better instrument is there to support the producer and, above all, to inform the Greek consumer? So we are talking about arrangements that the space really needed. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is what the Greek people must do and this picture must be collected from the political system, the Greek Parliament and, in particular, from such issues. We are all talking about rural areas as much as possible, with a particular sensitivity. So let us do this delicate act by voting for these regulations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u510	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, Articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is adjourned: 'Movement and marketing of fresh and vulnerable agricultural products and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u515	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u519	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Movement and marketing of fresh and vulnerable agricultural products and other provisions’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u528	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u537	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u546	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u548	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u555	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u557	Yeah, except for three, four and five scriptures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u560	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u564	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u573	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u575	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u577	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u582	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u586	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u591	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u595	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u600	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u604	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u609	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u618	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u621	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u625	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u626	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u627	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u629	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u630	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u636	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u638	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u640	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u641	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u645	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u647	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u654	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u661	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u662	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u663	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u667	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u672	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u674	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u676	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u680	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u681	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u685	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u690	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1287 and a special number 77, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u692	Presently, as a product of poor legacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u693	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u694	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u695	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u697	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u699	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1287 and a special 77 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1286 and a special number 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u701	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u702	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u703	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u704	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u706	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u707	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u708	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1286 and a special 76 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 13 of the draft law. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u713	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u717	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, therefore, was adopted in principle and on the articles. We are entering the vote of the bill as a whole. Does this House accept the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u719	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u722	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u726	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Statement and marketing of fresh and vulnerable agricultural products and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and all of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u727	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u728	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-12-S1-commons.u729	With the consent of the House at 20.58 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, October 13, 2017 at 10 a.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
