ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] First of all, I would like to inform you that for a short time the Parliamentary channel shows the opening from outside. The meeting will be filmed and repeated. Just, once the inauguration is finished, it will continue direct transmission by Parliament, here, with the timely questions. Now I've been informed to know, no misunderstandings arise. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we go to the seven deadlines to be discussed, I will announce that they will not be discussed because of the absence of a number of questions from the relevant ministers abroad. There are also questions to Mr Tsakalotos, which we all know are in the Eurogroup. Therefore, the fifth question under number 561/6-3-2017 of the Parliamentary Attica of the New Democracy, Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the ‘proposals and requests of the Municipalities of the Mediterranean in view of the consultation on the renewal of the Athens International Airport Convention ‘Eleftherios Venizelos’ with the Greek State for the period 2025-2055’, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. The eighth under number 414/30-1-2017, a topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the information about the stage of the process of implementing the investment at the former airport of Greece, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. The ninth under number 409/30-1-2017 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis on the sale of "National Insurance", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. The tenth under number 400/27-1-2017 topical question from the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and Athens MP Mr. Spyridon Lykoudi to the Minister of Finance, concerning untreated properties for which the public pays high rents, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. Also, Mrs Efi Ahtzioglu is missing abroad. Therefore, the second question, under number 604/14-3-2017, of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the reconstituting of the Labour Housing and Labour Housing Organisations, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. Mr. Xanthos, the Minister of Health, is missing abroad. Therefore, the seventh question under number 534/24-2-2017, on the weakening of the Centre for Health of the Municipality of Sparta, will not be discussed due to the Minister's consultation with the MP. The first under number 592/13-3-2017, a top-level question by the Member of the Attica Parliament, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister for the Interior, concerning the grant of a five-year obligation allowance, will not be discussed due to the Minister's consultation with the MP. The first under number 593/13-3-2017, a topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, regarding the design for the abolition of the Antiquities Literature Kilkis, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, on the grounds of "remunerated obligations". It will be redefined for discussion. The fourth question under number 564/6-3-2017, the second question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the "anti-constitutional and extra-academic criteria for the selection of the Members of the European Parliament at the Hellenic Open University", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The Minister of Education, Mr. Gavroglou, is outside Athens. Similarly, the eleventh question of the second question of the Member of the Republic of Heraklion's Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the 'Presidency Decrees on the recognition of the professional rights of TEI graduates', will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. Also, the thirteenth third under number 504/20-2-2017 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "the fulfilment of the Order of the Nation", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourteenth under number 530/24-2-2017 topical question from the Member of the European People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on 'the retention of part of the OPEKEPE grants due to the failure to pay contributions to the GEOB', will not be discussed on account of the impediment of the Minister, on the grounds of'remunerated obligations'. Similarly, the second question by number 446/18-10-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the serious problems faced by farmers, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifteenth, under No. 552/3-2017, topical question from the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Minister of Athens of Potamios Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Health, on the degraded state of health, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Polakis, on the grounds of "workload". The first question with number 3223/7-2-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGLOV to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the announcement of the results of the Social Tourism Programme for workers, unemployed and their families, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of Mrs. Deputy Minister of Labour, Urania Antonopoulou, on the grounds of "extraordinary obligation". There is a letter from the Secretary-General to the Bureau for all cases concerning the reasons which you have heard. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now be discussing the sixth question by number 575/7-3-2017 on the second question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Ilias Cassiri to the Minister of Finance, concerning the 'provoking reduction of the special solidarity contribution for political persons'. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, will answer. Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u2	First of all, I denounce this unacceptable phenomenon of presenting a report - I do not know its content and I do not care - when there is a plenary sitting. I am currently conducting parliamentary scrutiny, criticising power, and the citizen has the right to monitor these events in live streams and not to monitor reports that are of no interest to anyone. But this is a more general phenomenon for ministers not to step on their feet during parliamentary control. We have reported this on several occasions. It is worth wondering how the Minister has come today to answer a question from the Golden Dawn, which I have tabled since 7 March, when this major issue and political and moral, not so economic, has been eroded for the reduced contribution of solidarity that Members have to pay. It's been fourteen days, it's 20 a month today, and I want to tell the Minister that I already know her answer because the President of the Parliament has speeded up to say some excuses for the channels, and the relevant Ministry of Finance has come out to explain some ideas, some opinions, of the style "the same and worse did Samaras and Venizelos". In other words, at a time when Greek citizens are literally being thrown away, all the people have been targeted, all the poor Greeks are targeted by the Memorandum of Left, your excuse is that Samaras did the same with Venizelos. What I am saying with this question is that society at last requires that all these privileges of the political system be abolished. I don't ask what you're going to do. I know very well what you intend to do. You will continue to create new privileges and it is not only the reduced contribution of solidarity, it is also the reduced to non-existent tax paid by the MPs, which I have revealed here in 2014 to New Democracy, who are today making the false - opposition - and that SYRIZA continues all these privileges to keep them alive unfortunately, while all the poor Greek citizens have been beaten. I would therefore ask, in this question, that all these prerogatives which the political system has today, the same political system, which is responsible for the Memorandum plundering against the people, should be abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u3	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I should first of all like to say that I will respond to matters which belong exclusively to my competence. So let us talk about the issue of the solidarity levy. The special solidarity levy was initially imposed in 2011 and was calculated on net total income as follows: For total net income from 12.001 to 20,000 it was calculated at a factor of 1% on the total amount. For total net income from 20,001 to 50,000 it was calculated at a factor of 2% on the total amount. For total net income from 50,001 to 100,000 it was calculated at a rate of 3% on the total amount. For total net income from 100,001 and more it was calculated at a factor of 4% on the total amount. The total net income of political persons was generally calculated at a rate of 5% over the total amount. In 2014 the New Democracy - PASOK co-government with L.4305/2014 reduced all rates of the special solidarity contribution by 30%, including 5% for political persons, who were until then, which would therefore be 3.5%. However, this provision was amended before it came into force by our Government with Law No.4334/2015 which imposed 8% on the persons holding these public positions. By the same law, for ordinary taxpayers, 0% to total income of 12 000, 0.7% to EUR 20,000, 1.4% to EUR 30,000, 2% to EUR 50,000, 4% to EUR 100,000, 6% to EUR 500,000 and 8% to EUR 500,000 and over. As before, the rate was imposed on total income and not only on the relevant step. As a result, the maximum rate applied to ordinary taxpayers with a total income of more than EUR 500,000 was imposed on political persons, even if they had much lower incomes. Subsequently, under Law 4387/2016, the income tax changed radically and became more equitable for all citizens, even within the suffocating framework of the revenue targets. Low incomes have been reduced and the highest incomes have been charged. In addition, the special solidarity levy was incorporated into the Income Tax Code. The scales and rates of taxation have been reformed in a way that takes account of the overall burden on all taxpayers from income tax and the special solidarity levy. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I would ask you to give me some more time, Mr President. This reform concerns all taxpayers, not specifically those who hold these public positions. The previous system for calculating the special solidarity contribution introduced by Law 3986/2011 was unfair for all citizens, because the contribution rate was calculated on the whole income rather than on the step of income. A small difference in income between two taxpayers could lead to a large difference in the special contribution of solidarity. By Law No.4387/2016, the rates of the special solidarity levy were now gradually imposed per step of income, just as is the case with the rates of income tax. Moreover, the maximum rate of the special solidarity contribution is now 10% and not 8%, which was in 2015 or 5% in 2014. I would point out again that the rate structure takes account of the overall burden on income tax and the special solidarity levy. In view of this new structure, specific public positions now require a special contribution of solidarity in the same way as is imposed on all citizens. There is no special provision for political persons. With regard to the taxation of parliamentary allowances, 1-1-2014 abolished the special method of taxation laid down in Article 5 of the Resolution of 1975 and the Revision Chamber, which applied to Members - Judges. The last two were not abolished, according to which, when the tax on income is cleared from the competent DU, an amount equal to 25% of the gross amount of parliamentary compensation is deducted as an imputable amount to cover the costs of renting political offices and other operating expenses. We recall that from the first actions of our Government it was a 10% reduction in parliamentary earnings. I will submit the corresponding FEC in the Minutes, which further reduced the parliamentary compensation. It is the FEK 151A/19-11-2015, which further reduced the parliamentary compensation by 10%, resulting in a total reduction of 38% compared to the remuneration of the President of the Ice Bay. The solidarity levy is the same as that applied to all taxpayers, and the same will be the case with the taxation of their incomes. With regard to the financing of political parties, although this question should be addressed to the Ministry of Interior on account of competence, the evidence sent to us by this Ministry clearly shows that they are being reduced in the context of rationalisation of state expenditure, precisely because of the economic crisis and, more generally, because of the country's budgetary situation. Thus, 2009 totalled 85,135, in 2010 48,800,000, in 2011 54,000.018, in 2012 45,000, in 2013 21,877,000, in 2014 14,978,000, in 2015 18,933, in 2016 13,500,000 and in 2017 7,785,000. For 2017 the amount of 1,557,000 has not yet been paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u5	Put these down, all the text, please, Madam Secretary, in the Minutes, despite the fact that they will be transcribed. But testify to the paper you had. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here, Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u6	Let me begin with the question of the financing of the last one of the parties mentioned. Why is it that all these millions mentioned by the Minister are distributed to the parties? The party I represent, the third party in the country, does not receive funding. We do not take half of the euros from the public funds from 2013 until today and we survive - not just do we survive - we have offices all over Greece, we have events all over Greece, we are the emerging political power. In fact, I would remind you that when we entered the House in 2012 and tabled a proposal for a law abolishing the financing of political parties, then the Minister of Finance and Home Affairs' answer was that this is not the case, because it opens the door to finance parties from other sources. We have now saved this and we have not financed the political system from other sources, shipowners, capitalists! Golden Dawn has shown that parties can function without taking euros from the public sector, and this demand I express today, not to take even half of the euro, the parties and the money that will be saved to subsidize motherhood, to share equally in every new Greek born. Everything else you say is hypocritical. Let me take them one, one: as far as the Members' tax is concerned, the MPs remain tax-free. If you want to enter the taxis - it is a very simple application - 'kick' - you know that the Member's person has a particular income, more than EUR 50,000 per year - put the tax rate paid by a free professional with the same income and you will see that the Member pays not just less, but the amount paid by a free trader is twenty times what the Member pays. In order not to go to the parliamentary pensions, where it becomes a dormant today and we would see Mr Katrugalo on the channels justifiable that there would be cutbacks. What cuts? The question is why there is a parliamentary pension. Is anyone here in this room sticking heavy and unhealthy tastes? The room is empty, it's always empty. What for? Will you explain to me why there should be a parliamentary pension? There is no answer to that question. The only answer is that the political system wants to have its own people well-informed to support this process towards the monumental submission of the country. Of course, with regard to the question I raised with my question about the special solidarity levy, as much as you say, as many analyses and economic content, the question I raise is very simple and the answer could be simpler: why are Members paying EUR 2 000 less than it corresponds to them? And 2,000 euros for three hundred Members of Parliament are making 600,000 euros a year. This is important for the State's income, I think. From there on, on the level of parliamentary compensation - which you have just said you have reduced - is it possible to speak of reductions, when parliamentary compensation exceeds EUR 6 000? That's what I had taken off from 2012 in the second memorial, and I was telling it from this Step here. It was the New Democracy at the time and they screamed and said some underneath that I was lying. I wasn't lying at the time, and I wasn't lying today. The same policy is being pursued today. Extreme remuneration for MPs, privileges for MPs, millions of financing for the parties by a left-wing government that has not changed to any of the previous Memorandum Governments of the old political system. So I close, not with a question, because I have never received a substantial answer in this Chamber, but by expressing the people's request at last to abolish all these privileges of the political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u7	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, we all know that in the question of parliamentaryism, SYRIZA and the Golden Dawn are completely opposite to each other. We all know the position of the Golden Dawn on parliamentarianism and democracy. We all know what dark seasons he's nostalgic about. The evidence that has been presented in the trial where the Golden Dawn is being tried as a criminal organization is now known to everyone, no matter how much he now wants to hide them, while once he advertised them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u9	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u10	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u11	As I did not understand you, so I am not going to censor the Minister. Don't write anything about what Mr. Cassidy says! You gave your show! Goddamn it! [[This is where the Members of the Golden Dawn leave the Chamber.]] Good, good, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u12	They are known now to everyone, as much as they want to hide them, while at one time they advertised them, the Nazi greetings, the flags, the uniforms, the way they organized...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u13	Minister, just a minute, I'll give you the floor. First of all, there will be nothing written out of the microphone, especially the expression "you are..." to the State Secretary, which all the Parliament's wings deplore. What is the relationship between the Golden Dawn and parliamentaryism we did not expect today through this misery to find out. It'll only be written on what was said by a microphone. Here you go, Mrs. Undersecretary, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u14	Nazi greetings and flags, uniforms, way of organizing and doing Golden Dawn refer to the worst moments in history not only of our country but also of the whole world. We know that he has no arguments to convince, except with knives and loots, violence and terror. The Golden Dawn would not only want there to be no parliamentary compensation, it would like there to be no parliament and no MPs. On the other hand, the Left in Europe has fought a great deal to defend parliamentaryism and extend it to represent the great mass of popular and working classes. In the valley of parliamentism, in Britain, the workers first voted after World War I. Members of Parliament had to have a certain level of property to be elected. It was the working movement and the Left that proclaimed and achieved the right to vote and stand for election for all. It was the working movement and the left which they claimed and demanded that there should be parliamentary compensation in order to gain the right to vote in practice and not only on paper, because otherwise only the Members and the occupants could become MPs, only those who have large incomes that allow them to finance the parliamentary status. In Greece, the left has literally given her blood for parliamentism. Only one name I need to say: Gregor Lambrakis. The left has fought hard for democracy and parliamentarianism. The left-wing struggles in this country have widened democracy and parliamentarianism, although they have always been given in unequal terms. For us, for the people of Left and SYRIZA, the capacity of the MP is not a profession. The SYRIZA Members, ladies and gentlemen, do not become rich in the parliamentary compensation, which indeed seems great in the current economic situation of our people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u15	Now, don't go copy them on the offline. Pack it up and close it. We're not having a philosophical conversation now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. We do not make the long life - and people know it - despite what is said and written by the media. We don't care what others do. We're spending the parliamentary allowance to do our job to pay our offices so that our organizations can operate. After all, we have agreed and directly agreed to 40% we give it to our party so that it can function effectively. SYRIZA has not taken the hundreds of millions of euros - credit and fierce - that took from banks some other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u17	Madam Secretary, I'm going to stop you, and why you've spent your time and why you're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u18	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u19	Yeah. Let it be the last time I hear 'finish'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u20	Colleagues, the anti-parliamentary yellowism that is now suffering from specific circles aims at weakening the parliament, weakening democracy, blocking the representation of popular classes. We do not want a parliament of aristocracy. We do not want a parliament from professional politicians, but a parliament in which the people's classes are fully and directly represented. That's why it's necessary to be rethinked by those who are synthesized with this yellowism, if they're throwing water into another mill than the one they think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u21	If I wasn't in the Chair, I'd answer what you said, but I can't do it. We move on to the second debate under No 603/14-3-2017 in the first cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on measures to stop the situation of paying contributions for 2017 to the members of the GAAP which, from 1-1-2017, have stopped their insurance due to retirement. Mr Vardalis' question will be answered by the Minister responsible, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are aware that those who are insured in the OGA, those who were born in 1950, from 1-1 to 2017, have the right to submit a pension application. What's happened so far? They paid their contributions by the end of the previous year - in this case, that is, until December 2016 - and from 1 January of the following year they were applied for retirement and received a full pension in July, that is, the year they applied for, in July 2017 in this case. The OGA sent letters to request the contributions of the previous year. That's what he did this year. Farmers paid all their contributions and submitted a pension application. Also, I imagine you are aware that from 1-1-2017 the insurance of those insured in the OGA, on the basis of the computer system of the OGA, has been suspended and they have been waiting for their pension in July 2017. What happened now? Based on the reinsurance law that you passed and the operation of EVA from 1-1-2017, these insured persons continue to send letters to pay contributions in January and February, I imagine in the coming months, while under the previous scheme the last contribution should have been at the end of 2016. The question is specific. What measures are you going to take not to pay premiums for those who have stopped their insurance from 1-1-2017, based on the OGA computer system and have applied to receive a pension? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Bardalis, there is no longer any evidence available from the OPS OGA system because the single social security institution system operates from 1-1-2017. That's why nothing appears in the OGA system. There is no OGA system anymore, there is a single social security institution. I will tell you that on the basis of the previous provisions, someone who completed the 66th year of his age on January 1, 2017, would have to pay for all of 2017 and then wait seven months from 2018 to get his pension. This meant delaying the right to pension, with many consequences, with the possibility of death and a number of other issues which could arise when the insured farmer or farmer or fisherman did not fulfil the conditions because, as you said, they existed from July onwards. This led to the paradox having completed the 67th year of age within one year and being unable to receive pension. It was a request from farmers, farmers and fishermen who found this paradox to have the right to receive a pension by the end of the 67th year of age. That's what's going on with Mr.4387. It is therefore an impression that is created in a way that does not confer the real right of the insured in the former GAAP. It is an improved admission to the law and gives the right just as to all the insured, as the Civil Code defines in Articles 241 and 242, which says when the age limit is reached. So you could see it as positive, that there is no time-lag or delay in the awarding of the pensions of the former members of the OGA and they all have the same right to start paying the pension from the day that they reach the age limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Vardalis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u26	Minister, I listened carefully. I tried to follow your reasoning. We have a specific case here. OGA insurers have closed the limit and can get retired. They've filed an application and paid the premiums until last year. In practice, what you said to me is: The one who should, by filling out the years in December 2016, get his pension, will take it in the summer, in June. You have not added anything, you will not take it in December 2016 because it has passed. This is a particular category of OGA insured. What you said to me, in fact, adds from two to twelve months extra contributions, because someone can close in February 2017 for 67 years and someone in December. In any event, three months ago, before the implementation of the “reinsurance” law, the “ECA” was created and started operating from 1-1-2017, he would not pay any more contributions than December 2016. So, in practice, for one category of insured persons, you add them from one, two to twelve months contributions. That's the problem. And the problem is not five, ten or twelve months additional contributions to some of the OGA insured. You'll have to see these cumulatives. You took them to over 27%. For health you increased contributions from 2% paid, 6.95%, if I remember correctly. So, in total, what you have been through loads new burdens, other than that it gives farmers poverty pensions. I think that the farmers themselves and from this point of view, because I understand that you are not going to take any measures to alleviate those who are insured - at least so I understood from the answer you have given - will have to draw their own conclusions and fight not only your reinsurance policy, but also your overall policy, because it leads them to poverty and impoverishment and, finally, to unleashing the field. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u27	Me, too. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Vardalis, the good thing from the arrangement is that one instead of getting from July and then retiring, he can get from Genoa once he has reached the age limit. That's good. I told you the previous example, if someone completes the 66th year of age in January. I'm taking this version. And we've been talking for six months anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u29	That's understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u30	Why don't you, on the other hand, read your example that someone would be late to retire for up to six months and say that someone would pay more contributions for up to six months? The example I mentioned in my first speech demonstrates that there is a rule of law for all who pay contributions and receive pensions until the day of the 67th year, namely the very day of the birthday for everyone - this is the completion, in accordance with the Civil Code - and applies to all insured persons. And the farmers, the former insurers of the OGA, are on time to retire. Otherwise, what was happening was now paradoxical. To pay more than anyone else. It's going backwards. While now no one pays more than others. Everyone pays just as much until the day the right to retire is created. That's positive. Look at it. It's mathematical. I think you will agree that what we are doing is fairer for the insured themselves. As far as the increased contributions are concerned, I have said so before. I will not repeat the details again. 90% of farmers pay the minimum corresponding to the insurance category on the basis of the insurance contribution they are required to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u31	Me, too. Then we have two questions to answer from the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Alexander Haritsis. The first of the two is the twelfth under number 537/24-2-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the increase in the unemployment rate in Magnesia due to deindustrialisation. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, you will allow me, although a new parliamentarian, to speak only about what has been done before. It would be a good thing at some point for Parliament, with a clear and narrow voice, to tell those who are dredging against parliamentaryism and democracy that there are no more Members' pensions. They've been abolished by the previous government. And given that the composition of today's Parliament, in its majority, consists of new Members, none of them is entitled to a pension. The Greek people must learn that at last and learn that mainly about the people from the private sector who have worked very hard and have to deal with them since their parliamentary process, whatever it is, small or large, their invisible professional future. I'm coming to the question right now. Minister, you know the facts, you have given us the honour of attending the General Assembly of the Association of Thessaly and Central Greece Industrys and, indeed, I think that that's where you formed a clear picture of what is going on in Central Greece and especially what is going on in Volos and Magnesia. With 2015 figures, unemployment was at 33.4% in Magnesia, when the government is hitting the unemployment rate at 23%. Today, of course, ELSTAT's data have come to show that only February, unemployment has risen by 0.77%, with six thousand jobs still lost. Especially in Volos, the composition and causes of unemployment are somewhat different in the sense that we are living a new wave of deindustrialisation. Our area, the once urban and industrial center of Volos, has passed many waves of deindustrialisation, but has always found the way to stand by. Now it looks like we're in Nadir. In fact, in the days of your own government, three major industries, part of 'BIS', 'Coca-Cola' and 'IMANDAS' with hundreds of jobs have been closed. Taking into account dozens of small manufacturing enterprises that have closed down and small and medium-sized enterprises, which totalled ten thousand more in 2016 than in 2015, you understand the scene that is being created. I ask you directly, Minister. The financial tools currently in existence, the NSRF, the development law, the rural NSRF, the Productive Reconstruction Programme, the Rural Development Programme, are not sufficient, they do not seem to be able to reverse the picture. I ask you quite simply, because according to my information from the Volos OAED, in the urban complex at this time, unemployment in Volos reaches 37%. You realize we're talking about social scourges. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What are you going to do, Minister? That's what a Magnesia MEP asks. Keep in mind some other programs, some other financial tools that are in design...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u33	Keep something for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u34	Of course, Mr President. I have completed, asking how to deal with this social necklace, which your Government has not even stumbled to the minimum.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u35	I understand the question. Don't repeat it. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member for the question, because it really is of great interest. We had a chance recently in Volos to have an interesting debate, I think. But you will allow me to say that, of course, unemployment is, as you have said, a scourge. In the last two years, according to official figures, unemployment has declined by some four percentage points. This, of course, is in no way a reason to get someone involved and the government is not affected by the fact that unemployment remains at very high levels. Mr Bukokorea, I think we agree that deindustrialisation, as we speak of the region of Volos and Magnesia - and, of course, a similar picture is presented in other regions of Greece - is a development that pre-existing the financial crisis. I would even say that it is also a development which has often been the cause of the crisis, which has then occurred. In this sense we should also see the causes that have existed for ten and fifteen years, and especially in your own region - you know that better than me - for this deindustrialisation. There we should also see what happened in the period before the crisis, which we often call a period of fat cows, whether the resources - they were available then - were used to change the production model, so that we do not lead to a contraction of production base and have an economy that can withstand the triumphs of the crisis that was coming. Unfortunately, that did not happen. The Greek economy remained an introvertal economy, which had turned towards the tertiary sector and services, with very low expectations and potential and without investment where it really needed, that is, research and innovation, the human potential, which is also its main comparative advantage. With all this history in mind, to see where we start and how we go on the next day, it is precisely the strengthening of industry and of the processing of the secondary sector, because I do agree that without these areas we cannot talk about sustainable development. In this sense, in the new programmes, for example the NRP, there is a specific target for projects that will enhance industrial and manufacturing activity. I mention completely indicative and nominally only five actions which will be at the disposal of the industry in the next few years. It is the action for modern processing, which aims to finance medium-sized enterprises, the action to promote the extroversion and internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises - the main problem of the Greek economy is that it is such an introvertible economy and cannot be addressed to foreign markets - that action to strengthen the environmental economy, which primarily aims to reduce the energy costs of the Greek industry, which is one of the most energy-intensive in Europe, to strengthen the value added chains and to develop local business parks for the processing or supply chain, so that we can create synergies between businesses. You know very well that the Greek company has a very small average size and that does not enable it to stand up to international competition. In total, to stimulate business activity and address unemployment, through the ENPEC operational programme ‘Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship and Innovation’ of the new ESDP, projects totalling EUR 1.56 billion have been launched. Especially for the Volos region, an area that is also privileged to be linked to a university in which a very serious job is being done, will allow me to say that turning to actions from the new NSRP, which link entrepreneurship to research and innovation, is a good opportunity - especially for this region - so that the productive model can be changed at local level.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u37	Finish this, Minister. Keep for your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u38	I shall conclude with this very briefly, Mr President. Give me a minute, if you'll excuse me. Apart from that, for us an important initiative is the new development law. You know that a very important effort is being made to turn precisely into a secondary sector, industry and manufacturing. The first elements available to us confirm that this shift is taking place gradually but stablely. 65% of the applications we have received in the first four months of the new law are for processing and industry. The region of Thessaly and Magnesia also has a significant contribution to these applications, to these new investment projects. Financial conditions are therefore created, so that we can raise the Greek economy and reverse this picture that has been created over the past few years and which has indeed led to a large decline in production and industrial activity in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u39	Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u40	Minister, the government's claim that unemployment has fallen by four points is a magical picture. I am telling you this because, if you look at the parts of part-time contracts, you will notice that they have for the first time exceeded 54% of all contracts. What does that mean? It means we've turned the eight into four hours. We share poverty. I know that you have the issue of underdevelopment and recession very well, but I do not see those actions that will reverse the whole climate. Welcome to the actions you announced, but I appreciate that they are not capable of reversing the picture. I say this, Minister, because our region - Volos and Magnesia - is facing particular problems, which I have explained in my prototype. There is a need for more and broader programmes to combat unemployment in a region, in a town complex, in an urban centre such as Volos, which writes unemployment indicators of 37%! I have explained to you that the ESDP is not enough. The government is advocating that our country is the first in absorbance of the ESRB. At the same time, it hides the fact that since 2014 our country has been in third place. So the issue of absorption in the NRP was a dynamic one. We forget, Minister, that your co-legislative Ministry of Rural Development has achieved nothing with the so-called 'Agrarian ESDP'. You know, Minister, our country is twenty-seventh in the twenty-eight countries. You're telling us about the development law. The development law provides financial resources of EUR 500 million for the next five years. Do you really think that such economic resources can reverse the situation in the country and especially in our region, in Magnesia and Volos? You're giving some tax incentives. There have been proposals of 2 billion euros. Some will be approved. In order to change the general situation, other solutions are now needed, Minister, as they are in danger of being closed down because of the country's banking system. There's no banking system in the country. For about two years, capital controls have been in place. There's no talk. Nobody's talking. So do you honestly believe that we can reverse the situation? That is why I am sending you the shouting of anguish in the society of Volos and Magnesia to draw up programmes, measures, to find financial instruments that can bring unemployment to the level of the rest of the country, at least in this area. It is the right of local society to ask for additional measures to tackle this social scourge. I'm not saying it's your government 100% fault. I say that the highest unemployment in our region is taking on stagnation and you face it like everyone else. That is not, in my view, the case, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr Buquoore, you have spoken about part-time work. Honestly, because I want to have a productive debate and cooperation, tell me: Who is responsible for the fact that, in the five years 2010-2014, the industrial relations in that country have been completely dismantled and now the Greek Government, our Government, is called upon to negotiate the reintroduction of the collective agreements, precisely so that they can deal with what you have said - and rightly - that they have been made in previous years? I would also like to make this comment: it would be a good thing to say what you have now said to transfer it to the leadership of your party, in order to support this effort made by the Greek Government to restore industrial relations to the pre-crisis level. Now, in relation to the NRP, we obviously don't want to tell people about it. No one says that a tool in itself is enough. Even the ESDP, which is a very important financial instrument for the country, is not enough. It is not panacea to deal with all the problems that have accumulated over the past decades in the production base of this country. What we are saying is that with targeted interventions, such as those which I described in my prototype, we can deal with some of the problems that have accumulated over the past few years. Now I'm going to talk about the development law. You should know - and I think you know this personally quite well, since you are dealing with these issues - that the new development law, apart from strengthening new investment projects, also comes to cover the sins of the past. In other words, it comes up to find a way, a mechanism, so that it can give the aid that was intended for investment projects, which had entered into the two previous development laws of 2004 and 2011, but without the relevant funds being available. So when we talk about resources from the new development law, which are not enough for new investment projects, we need to keep in mind and what had happened over the past few years and what, if you like, loose ends, which amount to many billions, we come to cover. Of course, because this really is a question of strengthening new investments, we do two basic things: Firstly, we are increasing the resources of the National Public Investment Programme for the first time in a decade, so that through the national Public Investment Programme we can strengthen new investment projects in the new development law, which shows from the first elements, which I described at the outset, that it is of great interest. Secondly, in addition to direct aid, which unfortunately in many cases in recent years has also taken on a challenging scale - that is to say, 100% advances in investment projects, which have never been implemented and filled up with shells - we are also implementing the new development law and using new financial instruments, new tax reliefs and tax exemptions so that we can support investment projects without immediate financial support. Apart from that, and because you are right that the resources that we have available to us are not sufficient to cover all this deinvestment, which has been in the Greek economy in the past years, and especially in the five years 2010-2014, we are moving towards the creation of new financial instruments, such as, for example, the Entrepreneurship Fund, which gives the Greek small and medium-sized enterprises liquidity, providing guarantees and loans that they cannot find from the banking system. You know that, because we want to have a regional target on these new tools, very recently, we have also been implementing a special tool for the region of Western Macedonia, in cooperation with the local and regional chambers. Corresponding tools we wish to implement in all the regions of the country - of course the regions of Thessaly and Volos, which have the productive basis that could meet such demand, will be the first priorities - and of course the important new instrument of the Investment Fund, which will enable Greek small and medium-sized enterprises in the form of equifunds, that is, co-investment, with very important resources coming from both Europe and the European Investment Bank, totalling EUR 1 billion. Things are hard and nobody celebrates. We know very well what we have inherited from previous governments. We also know that a very large, coordinated effort must be made, not only on the part of the government, but on the part of the producers as well. So we are trying to do this, and we think that at least so far the results deserve us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u43	Minister, because Mr Bukouros cannot answer you - because by the Rules of Procedure he cannot do so - I will make a slight derogation to tell you for the last time - because you are probably doing everything you have never heard - that the official position of the New Democracy is in favour of collective bargaining. If you don't know, I'm officially telling you from the Chair and I'm not going to repeat it. You are not obliged to follow the positions of Mitsotakis, but I tell you. I assume that the PASOK will be the same - Mr Constantinople will tell you - but also all the other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u44	You will note, Mr President, that my comment was on the collective bargaining and the placement of Officerial Response during the negotiation debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u45	And I answer that we have testified for months now. We've made it public to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u46	I didn't talk about official posts. I was very clear. It was about the negotiation and attitude of the Qualified Opposition on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u47	You know, we don't do a card. It's not allowed now. Once again, I will repeat the question, so you can come and I'll see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u48	Of course! At your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u49	Now I can't say anything more. When a party speaks the position of the public, it tells it forever and everywhere. We move to the sixteenth question under number 531/24-2-2017 on the integration of sewerage networks and sewage treatment of Kontovazana, Levidi and Calliani Arcadia. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to begin with this: I think it is the fifth month that Mr Tsakalotos does not come to Parliament to answer the Greek question. It's a fifth month!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u51	It's at the Eurogroup. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Haritsis, what I understand is that he wasn't at the Eurogroup for five months!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u53	Today you find...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u54	I understand. But yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u55	Mr Haritsi, Mr Constantinople says so every time and, in my view, many of us quite rightly, because we have been talking for five months!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u56	But especially today, I don't think he should have invoked it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u57	Today I said that Mr Chakalotos is missing abroad. Mr. Constantinople does not mean for today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Haritsis, you asked me to come after two weeks. We understand that you have jobs and you can't come. That is right, and that is why we are accepting it. But we've been talking for five months! In five months, instead of going one day to the ERT, and while you have a question, you have to say you have a workload and the next day to see your favorite team, there's a problem. Secondly, Mr Haritsis, we have asked you a question on development issues. We've been testifying her to Mr. Papadimitriou for a month and a half. I am talking about a topical and urgent question from our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u59	Not the one we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u60	No, no. I believe that at some point the Ministry will decide, because of the Rules of Procedure, to put it in order to come and discuss all these issues. But if we don't waste our time, I'm going to go to this particular subject to answer. I have asked too many times this question concerning the wastewater treatment network of Kontovazana, Levidio and Callianio Arcadias. As far as the first two are concerned, these are municipalities which need it for environmental, development and tourism reasons, while the other one, Calianio, is a project that has begun and needed pre-accession - as it has been done - in order to move forward and complete this whole process. In this respect, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. We had replies from Mr Korokolis, who is a Secretary-General, who then told us, on 20-11-2015, that he expects all this process to proceed and with the responsibility of the managing authority to make the formal process of the call, submission, evaluation, selection and integration of the candidate projects into the new period. For all three projects, Mr Corkolis's answer is the same. I would therefore like to ask you where this process is and what the Ministry's thoughts are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Constantinople, I am truly surprised to hear you say at the beginning of the text of your written question that in 2014, as the Secretary of State for Development, these projects - I do not mention them now, not to mention them, have been included with this decision in the Public Investment Programme as projects for forward integration into the new NSRP 2014-2020. The projects you say were included at that time in the Public Investment Programme - like dozens, hundreds of other projects at that time, at the end of 2014 and before the January 2015 elections - with zero appropriations in the Public Investment Programme, that is to say, without the slightest financial commitment on how these projects will eventually be repaid, how these projects will be financed. So it makes no sense to talk about projects that are part of the programmes, to create in the local society the distorting picture that they put them in - you will allow me to say - "good" Constantinople and now does not move them forward by "bad" Haritsis or "bad" Corcolis. This is a distorting picture of reality. The reality is that these projects were never integrated with approved appropriations, that is, there was never the financial commitment to how they would be implemented. And, of course, that does not make any difference - and that is where I shall agree - the feasibility of these projects. I would expect, however, from you, instead of discussing what happened in 2014 - which, in essence, was absolutely nothing - to see how we can move on from now on. There is also a second element, which is very important and local society should know about these projects. And I refer to the two of the three projects: the Contovazana and Callianio Arcadia. These projects do not belong to the population categories of more than two thousand inhabitants, namely category C, as we say, in which the new programming period of absolute priority is given to implement, precisely because our country pays for this category of projects super-private fines due to non-compliance with the Union framework and Directive 91/271. As far as the settlement of Levidis is concerned, the third of these projects is not eligible for the two actions of the HMETER, which have been declared to date. Third action will be taken in which this project could be eligible. But let me say in particular about this project that is a project that could well have been included in the Peloponnese Regional Operational Programme (RDP). You are well aware that important resources for wastewater treatment have been allocated to the regions in the new programme period. In particular, 17 million euros have been allocated for the Peloponnese Region. We therefore have to deal with a situation that we have received with great super-commitments, which we have to deal with. These projects are typical cases of such overcompensation, and these are projects that are appropriate. We intend that all three projects should be carried out within this programme period. We will find the way from the EMFF, the sectoral operational programme, either from the regional programme or from national resources to implement these three projects. However, this must be done seriously and in the form of fireworks, as has been done in the past - and I will be allowed to say that they did not serve the proper information of local societies on the financial possibilities and, ultimately, the implementation of these important projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u63	Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u64	These works, as you know, have - as you yourself say and fully agree -...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u65	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u66	You say it, and that's the truth. Mr. Corkolis writes it. Unless you don't agree with Mr. Corkolis. I read to you: "The project...enlisted in 2014 to the national part of the PPP as an act of potential for accession to the 2014-2020 Operational Programme, with the aim of mature the project" - quite rightly, that is, not to waste time, that was the decision of the rulings, "on condition that the competitive process will not be completed before the finalisation of the project, etc.". Why did we put that on and that's why we signed it? In order not to - as you said before, but I say we all understand it - we create and we put projects in the ESDP. It says here, in other words, that the competitive process will not be completed before it is finalised in the operational programme. Because when you're in a competitive process and you're in it, it means you're in it. We said that this would not go any further until we incorporated it. That's your answer. You in two decisions, Mr Corkolis in particular, - I don't know - and in 2016 and in 2017 he tells me that these projects are a typical process of calling for, evaluating, selecting and integrating candidate projects into the new period. I can testify all three. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's what you answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u67	That's what I've answered. Don't you get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u68	Now. Firstly, there is no overcompensation. Second, there's interesting. From what, then, will it be done? Or the FMD or the Peloponnese FMD. That's right. So overcompensation doesn't exist. Secondly, if the PLN Peloponnese... the PLN, as you know, Minister, manages them with autonomy. However, there has always been a time when the programmes are being reorganised, in consultation with the regional authorities, to include some projects which were both relevant, but could also be carried out between central actions and regional ones. This is also your own procedure, in which you must go ahead. I am pleased, however, that, at the end of the day, you said what you said about the local communities, and we all knew which of the two thousand inhabitants and over and below the two thousand inhabitants, because Mr Corkolis again responds to them, since they are separate for each project. He's answering now. I don't know why he didn't answer any different then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u69	Where's your difference?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u70	I say: As you said about the second phase of district heating - and we wait in the first few months of '17 to include them - I will take your goodwill, which is that you want and you can go ahead with them, either through the HMETER or through other procedures that you will find. I'm happy and I'm keeping what I think is important to my area. From there on, for the rest, we will have time to see how you and how you move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u71	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I think that when we talk, we need to have a real dialogue and not parallel monologues. I think I was very clear in my initial position. What I said is that when these projects - because that is how they appear in the local society, we also see the publications - you say that they joined in 2014 and have not been implemented since then, this is falsification of reality. The projects have not been included. Projects may have joined. Since there is no legal commitment to this project, there is virtually no project. So don't say they joined. The projects have never been integrated. They joined overcompensation and indeed there were overcompensations, there were great overcompensations at the beginning of 2015 - you know that very well - in the work of the new NSRP, which we tried to exalt. I told you that for the two of the three projects, there is a question of eligibility, precisely because they are not in the category of projects which have priority over this programming period, which should have been carried out for many years - unfortunately they have never been implemented - in category C, for which we are paying fines. The first priority in this new programming period is, therefore, the projects for which the country pays, even today, fines. The two projects therefore do not fall under this category and could not be eligible for the actions of the EMEA. We will, of course, be able, once we cover all these loose ends of the past and close Class C, see new invitations, which will also involve projects such as those two that we are discussing, which are not category C, and which may possibly be eligible for these projects. As you know very well, the process is very clear. With the request made in the process of evaluating all the programmes, some are chosen and some are not. In our opinion - and this is a methodology that we are following in all the programmes - three are the main criteria: the feasibility of projects, the maturity of projects - so we have talked beforehand about whether these projects are mature to be implemented - and, of course, the financial possibility of the projects to carry out these projects. I repeat what I have said in my prototype: all three projects are important for all three projects, so that they can be implemented within the current programming period. However, this cannot be done in some magical way by programmes that are already over-complexed for the new period. This should also be done in cooperation with the region, with the regional operational programme, which has equal resources - I told you in my prototype - and, of course, with the national resources available to us and which will be increased for the first time from this year onwards, in relation to the last decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u73	To detach you, when you say 'current programming period', what do you mean by time, in particular?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u74	Current programming period from 2014 to 2020. The ESDP programming period shall be until 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u75	The projects will therefore have been made by 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u76	By 2020, it is the current programming period.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u77	The works will have been done. Yes, sir. Thank you very much, Minister. The third question, with number 2746/20-1-2017, will be discussed - the cycle of petitions and questions - by the Independent MP II of Athens Mr.Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of National Defence, on the decommissioning of the Greek Defence Systems (ESA) by granting the destruction of old ammunition to a private person. As I saw you invaded, dear Harry, in the House with the backpack on the shoulder, I thought Tsakalotos came from Brussels.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u78	You cannot confuse me with Mr. Chakaloto, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u79	He will answer from five and a half hours Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u80	I apologise to the Minister. We said six and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u81	No, it's a show anyway. I say it for the Minister, who was consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u82	I thank him, however, for the sensitivity he has shown to answer this question. Minister, with today's question, I come back to an issue that you very well know about, the question of the systematic depreciation on behalf of your Ministry, the Hellenic Defence Systems by granting the destruction of old ammunition to a private person. The NSAs, as you know - because you have followed the issue - for more than a hundred years they have been planning, developing, manufacturing and supplying Natali-type weapons, weapons systems and ammunition to the Hellenic Armed Forces, forming the crown of the Greek defence industry. Despite the initial announcements made by your Government and your party, when it was Opposition, for the resolution of U.S., your practices are moving in the opposite direction, as you lead them with mathematical accuracy to marvelation and complete depreciation. The transfer of old ammunition from the Dervenochoria warehouses to the U.S. Lavrio factory, in order to be used to certify a company-private disaster unit, is part of the strategy of depreciation that you systematically adopt, against the company. This is because the NSAs have a perfectly safe and certified ammunition disaster line. So why do you grant a job with economic benefits to a private investor instead of an ESA, since, firstly, the latter have been in a precarious financial situation and secondly, the destruction of old ammunition for the certification of a private company opens the way so that it can function in due course as an NSA's competitors that already have a catastrophe certificate? For all these reasons, I ask that you give a clear answer to the following questions: Since NSAs have the ability to destroy old ammunition, why was it decided to be made available to a private person in order to certify him in the process of destruction? Does this practice fall within the framework of the total depreciation of NSAs, giving jobs to private-competitors? Why is this so, even if, in the absence of orders and work, workers have been unpaid for months? What are the benefits of the NSA, and of the HR in general, from the disposal of ammunition for the certification of a private company? In what methodology and who will confirm the certification of the private company? Will it be the service of the HR or any other private person? And finally, what are the environmental criteria that will be met in the certification process for the destruction of old ammunition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u83	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Theocharis, you have asked me a written question to which I have answered you in a particular way. I answered you through a comprehensive response from the administration of NSAs because, as you can see, making a collaboration with the NSAs with a private company, with a foreign company, is also an element of how they work, but there is also the procedural nature, the management character. One minister does not sit here saying "you will do this cooperation, you will not do the other" etc. But you have come back, and I will be more thorough. As you probably know, the Ottawa Treaty has imposed a ban on the use and destruction of anti-personnel mines. This was about 2008. In Greece at the time, there were about six hundred thousand anti-personnel mines and they should have been destroyed, on the basis of the then organogram, by 2012. The respective military service, the ANS, has a contract of 3,700,000 euros to make this disaster. You will remember that at that time the responsibility for the disaster was given to a Bulgarian company, the VINTEX company, which no longer exists. In fact, we also had a tragic accident in which people were killed. The company, of course, says it has already destroyed a million and anyway about 2,500,000 of these 3,700,000 have been given. So the NSAs could, on the basis of what they have, go ahead and with the possibility of destroying about six hundred mines on the shift, provided, of course, that they invest 2,300,000 for the production line. This cooperation achieves the destruction of three thousand per shift. The fact is that the NSAs will earn EUR 1,200,000, i.e. the rest of the previous contract. In this sense, I regard this as a success, in the difficult economic situation and in the attempt to assimilate the NSA as a whole. Partnerships with companies in general, which will bring work or produce jobs, are something that I consider to be a good thing. Secondly, you have rightly changed the time in your question, because I imagine you also know that the last payment to employees in the NSAs was made on 23 February and if they are paid on 23 March - and I have good hopes that they will be paid - there will be no debt to workers. We don't owe. They don't owe NSAs to the workers. But it's the issues. As far as who will give the certification is concerned, Picatinny Arsenal will give it, i.e. the United States' Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment. He's not a private body. It's the FAO of the United States of America. He'll give it to the company as a destructor for both NSAs as a disaster site. Is that practically what it means? That this company can't make a mine disaster elsewhere in Greece. I'm saying that to make that clear. A Committee has been set up since 28 February 2017 to assess the relevant technical description of the NSAs and to inspect the procedures for demilitarising the sample of three thousand mines, in accordance with the application made by the NSAs. On the 27th and 28th of March there will be a visit by the U.S. ministry of technical experts from the respective Directorate-General in order to carry out additional tests for the destruction of bombs, 155 mm missiles, in their presence. Everyone's been informed. Finally, an environmental management system has been provided by both the company and NSAs by ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 and an additional OHSAS 18001 system, which is a health and safety management system at work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u85	Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u86	Mr Minister, thank you again, as I have said, for the answer. However, I have the feeling that all the questions have not been answered in full - the suspicions, if you like - which we have that NSAs are being led, either by mistakes or by systematic policy, to depreciation. This is because you leave unanswered a number of key questions in relation to the framework of the company's cooperation with the private sector. There was a choice of a private person. How? With what decisions of the Management Board? With what techniques? That this is how it should be. How have these decisions been made? Was it done on transparent criteria? We are not convinced that there are the right procedures on the part of NSAs and the administration that your government has put in. Secondly, is there a binding provision in the cooperation agreement that know-how and certification with the new private company method ensured by NSAs? We're not sure and we haven't seen any evidence that's there. How is it ensured - again in the cooperation agreement, in the contract between the NSAs and the private person - that the relationship with the NCAs, with this company, will not be competitive in the future? There must be a requirement for cooperation to bind this company to the joint destruction of all kinds of ammunition, not only within the country but throughout the world. I think - you said it yourself - that only within the country is committed. Furthermore, it is stated that NSAs currently have the ability to destroy mines and need investment in order to increase the number of disasters. Why, if we want more speed in the mines' destruction, do the NSA shifts not work, destroy at the rate that today and only the excess of mines that we want to do at a faster rate? They may be provided through various partnerships. Since you are telling us that the private company is qualified and has know-how on the subject why this certification is needed? Why is this certification procedure, if it is already certified? Also, if the certification process is not completed, how can we be sure that the mines' destruction capacity will be of the order of three thousand per shift? Your position you said before, that two RU companies and a private person allegedly have ISO 2001 for quality, ISO 14001 for environmental management and 18001 for health and safety management is rather misleading. Because you know that this facility has not been inspected by certification bodies with regard to these standards. Therefore, these standards do not apply to this installation. And I ask you directly: have the questions of the Labour Inspectorate inspected this facility been answered? I am tabling their practical documents with questions from 22-12-2016, which say in fact that no disaster should be done unless appropriate certifications and appropriate 'okeys' have been given by the services and the HR. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the methodology again, I ask you: has a committee of experienced technicians, chemicals, engineers, safety technicians for its assessment, as has been proposed to the administration even by members of the Management Board of the NSAs? What is the opinion of the safety technician of the Lavrio plant for this installation? The business decisions of the NSAs must come from the authorised institutions of the administration, Minister, and, as the situation is now evolving, if the company's machinery - private ones after the interventions of the NSA techniques proves capable of destroying ammunition, while satisfying the relevant requirements of the legislation, I wonder what this will prevent the company - private one from competing with NSAs with a seat and partner from another country. You told us that only within the country is involved in this process. I therefore think that there should be corrective action, or you should prove us in practice, and with documents that these safeguards exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u87	That wasn't a question. That was a question. So, what does Mr. Vitch do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u88	It was a difficult matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u89	It was hard, yeah. Ask a question. But then do not mess with the Bureau if it limits you time. Now, okay, I left you, because today we have some comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u90	With Mr. Theochari, we can get to know each other...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u91	No, and because I left you six minutes too. Don't forget!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u92	I want to tell you this and it must be very clear. What are the steps to finalize the contract? The first step is to see if this thing and the three thousand mines can work. That's the basic thing. The second is that there should be this convention on all these certifications, which I mentioned. The third part, I say - and I am right - is that the space must also be certified in terms of security. The fourth is that within the contract space and certification become one. Whether the company goes to find another place in Canada, for example...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u93	In Bulgaria, say, not in Canada.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u94	I'm talking about any country. I told you, for example, Canada. Because now you cannot prevent this and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u95	The contract can prevent it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u96	The only way to prevent this is to ban the company's action in any country in the world. You know very well that if you do this, you will go to DIGICOM and say 'what do you say?' Isn't that right? You know these things. Alas. These things can't be done. Now, based on the evidence we have, what do we have? Productivity, which we currently have: six hundred. Labour force: 15 people per shift. Investments: two million three hundred thousand. Estimated starting time: eight months. Now I'm telling you what we discussed with the administration. On the other hand, productivity two and a half to three thousand pieces per day - we are always talking about two shifts - workers of six people per shift, investments of at least fifty thousand euros and estimated start-up time from the time of certification a month. With the boulder and the seal of certification - let me say it - the American Ministry of National Defence. That's the first. The second, within the next few days, the known contract between the NSAs and the Greek Petroleum is signed, amounting to twenty-six million euros. There is therefore a basis for financing, which will help the NSAs very much, and the raw materials are coming, in order to accelerate the process and operation of the Lavrio plant and the other three factories that currently have the NSAs, namely, Mandra, Hymitt and Egypt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u97	Good. Thank you, too. We move to the third with number 560/6-3-2017 a timely question from the Deputy Laconia of the New Republic, Athanasios Davakis, on the restoration of damage from natural disasters in the Municipality of Eurota. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. A few months ago, as well as two years ago, almost a year and a half ago - the Municipality of Eurota of Laconia Prefecture was hit, Minister, from two serious and unprecedented weather events and suffered natural disasters: A tornado in September 2015 and an unprecedented flood in September to October 2016. This has happened in other parts of the Peloponnese, meanwhile. There was a meeting at the Ministry of the Interior, in which - and I am sorry to say that he left - Mr. Haritsis - it was the Minister who discussed all the problems, the restoration of infrastructure, roads, all the elements that had been affected, the correction of issues relating to the road network, hydraulic works, etc. Indeed, there was the assurance of the political leadership, which Mr Haritsis, as I said, that everything will be restored and that there will be significant interventions by the Government against these issues. The reason why I come to check on you today, as a new Minister, but, in any case, as a follow-up to the political leadership, is that nothing has happened from this point of view, from the issues relating to the municipal authority, which it asks with many documents, with many representations, with a great deal of effort, in fact, nothing has been received except EUR 240,000, that is, the provincial rural road. Imagine that the flood destroyed the entire rural network in the region. Farmers cannot go to their fields, collect the olives and deal with agricultural work. The strange thing about this, and this is about the other absent person, Mr Vitsa, is that he appeared, Mr President - and I am ending - a bulldozer from the 747 Degree of Engineering in Loutraki, the famous MOMCA, supposedly to make some roads. That's none of your business, but Mr. Vitsats could hear it. In any case, I am not saying anything. As far as you are concerned. The object of my question is to ensure that the coordination which he has already said with the regional authorities and the municipality and, above all, the periphery, on the part of the Government, is to remove certain issues relating to the restoration of damage. Another winter will come and, unfortunately, the Eurotas will run out, the torrents of the north, which you can tell me are a matter for the municipality, but, in any case, the municipalities need to be helped with these few infrastructures and all of them, which make up a picture of disaster. How long will this happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u99	In other words, the question to Mr Skourletis is whether he intends to take coordination of all these bodies so that you can go further than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u100	That's right. Coordination is sought, Mr President, because one is putting responsibility on the other. You've made mayor and you know it. He's putting the blame on each other and paying for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u101	Yes, Mr Davaki, I know them, but I would like it to be clear about the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty students and students and four educational attendants from the 26th Municipal School of Thessaloniki and from the Municipal School of Sinaradon Corfu. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Davakis, I have in my hands a letter dated 8-3-2017, that is to say, from the Municipality of Eurota to the Ministry of the Interior, which notes what I will tell you immediately below, and confirms that what was agreed at the meeting of last September in the Ministry of the Interior, to which you referred and that solutions have been made. I do not know if you have this letter in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u103	Is he addressing us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u104	To the Ministry of Interior. I'm thinking maybe they'd let you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u105	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u106	In any case, I'm telling you the following. First of all, the Ministry of Interior has approved the sums of 150,000 euros for this disaster. But be careful. Of these amounts, which have been committed, only EUR 42,984,70 has been used up. You know, that money's not blind. Therefore, the awards are made because the area has been declared to be of exceptional need and are disbursed once the documentary documents have been deposited. There is one issue, therefore, because, while all this money has been given, it has not been disbursed and therefore I suppose that the projects involved may not have been made in the time that should have been done. The Ministry of Labour on its part has activated all the arrangements provided for in those regulations in those cases of natural disasters and concerning insurance contributions. In other words, there is an issue of suspension of the current contributions for six months, capitalisation of the amounts up to that date and the possibility of repayment of the above amounts in twelve or twenty-four monthly instalments. It has been launched, this arrangement is in force. In addition, the Ministry of Interior has approved and committed an amount of EUR 169.811 for the restoration of buildings and an additional EUR 1,000 per household per building. And that's what's under way. Also, the Department of Natural Disasters has arranged for a joint ministerial decision of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure, where it is now in force. And I would like to tell you that on the occasion of your question, because of course you refer to some disasters, which are not this year - we have had much more, far more, in many areas, this year - it is perhaps just a few times...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u107	It's this year's.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u108	I know. It is one of the few times that there has been so great and rapid response from the state mechanism. And that is what most mayors admit. In fact, the distribution of this aid, at least to what I am aware of, from the very few sums and the accounts available to the Ministry of the Interior, has actually been made on the basis of objective criteria and on the basis of the situation of the regions and the problems and not on the other hand, as was the case in the past, where it was necessary to get the funds for natural disasters. This practice is a past, and it is not something I only say. Ask the people of self-government to confirm that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, I do not know what document that is. The Minister has now mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u111	If he wants, he can testify in the minutes the letter of the City of Eurota to get it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u112	I have received a corresponding document from the relevant vice mayor of the Municipality of Eurota, who says: 'Our municipality in the last two years has been hit by a tornado, floods'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u113	What's your date?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u114	It's February 23rd. I continue: "It is natural that the problems are huge and the restoration should be problematic, etc. Nevertheless, the government has given us the enormous sum of EUR 150,000!''.'. I would remind you that these officials, together with the municipal authority, tried self-sufficiently, etc. "But what do rulers do? On the municipal council, we have again raised the issue of rehabilitation of over 2,000,000". It's a 2 million-dollar request. We're talking about a great disaster. Eurotas is gone. They're destroyed. And it goes on to address the principal, the Vice-President and the Members: "You gentlemen have assumed your responsibility. We need to remind you of your basic obligations. Of course we cannot expect promises for the tornado in 2015, nor for the floods in 2016. We are, however, obliged to ask the co-legislative ministries to cover the restoration of the elementary infrastructure, which concerns the rural and rural roads, the cleaning of ramps, with the priority of Vorva as a source of the major problems - it is a torrent adjacent to the Euro Skala - the restoration of the Roma settlement and other basic infrastructures which have been captured and recorded by our services and amount to 2,000,000 euros."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u115	Don't read it all. You're filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u116	Sure. [[At this point, the Minister, Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Municipality of Eurota has been declared for 2017, with a great effort from the local municipal authority and the partners of the ‘European City for 2017’. You understand what has to do when the athletes start coming to an area like this. I think you're not properly informed. You said, of course, that some phrases that are keys, such as 'individual damages to the constructions have begun to take place'. But I am going to Lemon, Asteris, Glucosia - adjacent regions - and they say to me: 'Mr. Davaki, we have not got one drachma even those 600 euros, which we were told will give us for the building that was destroyed'. We visited the areas and the world was with the tires inside the houses to remove the mud. But the point of my question was not just how much money you would give - which is important, because it sees money in all these cases - our question is, when will the problems of the Euro that surpasses and destroys this area, when this road network exists. You can't answer that. Don't tell me okay. They are therefore intervening issues with the road network in this area, such as the Euro bridge, a 1926 bridge. And the documents you sent me - and I thank you - are collector parts - with your own signatures, with other colleagues of Ministers - contradict each other. I, Minister, am monitoring you at the moment because a situation of responsibility has continued to deteriorate. I think that due attention should be paid. Don't show me this document, which I don't know is more of a document. The municipal authority is making a great effort, but I feel that a municipal authority cannot do everything if there are conflicting responsibilities and issues which do not lead to the resolution of issues. Money must be given for rehabilitation, we must also think about how the plumbing issue in the euro estuary will be restored, which affects the region as soon as the Euro is overrun, and all the things that make up a catastrophe that has not changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u117	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Davakis, I understand the love for your country and the opportunity of the timely question you have also raised a number of issues, problems over time. Obviously, the issue of Europa's improvement works cannot be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u119	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Hydraulic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u120	The mayor and the district know what to do. In any case, however, in cases like the one we are discussing, cases of natural disasters, etc., a number of procedures are being initiated. First, the municipality is setting up damage-recording committees, shortly after contacting the region, they come in contact with the Ministry of Infrastructure, to look at the projects relating to this direction. The 150,000 that you have said is not a small amount from the account available to the Ministry of Interior, which does not exceed 10,000 000 annually for such cases. So by telling me a sum here of 2,000,000, you sum up issues which are of three and four ministries. The Ministry of Labour and Social Security, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much. But I told you how it splits. That is why I mentioned specific amounts, which are currently committed by decisions of the respective ministries. We don't have the infinite money. You know that. You know what the state of the country is. So let us look at the right time as quickly as possible, prioritise priorities and use them in the best possible way. There too, I think a lot can be improved on the part of the central government, but also on the part of the authorities, whether first or second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u121	Can you submit the document? Because we don't have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u122	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u123	We are coming to the last timely question, so that we can then get to the topical question by Mr Kegeroglou. So now the seventeenth question under number 538/24-2-2017 of the new Parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Kefidou Kefidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "in the air the task of expanding the National Gallery". Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the most not so much recent press releases on the National Gallery and the request of the contractor to the Ministry of Culture to dismantle the contractor was not much of a surprise. Thousands of Athenians and Visitors of Athens have seen this emblematic work of culture on a daily basis for a long time. Therefore, according to the data presented in the publications, the contractor submitted in February 2017 a request for the dismantling of the contract due to a lack of object and oligopoly of the Ministry. What does that mean? This simply means that the services of the Ministry in which you are headed did not necessarily do their work so as to result in the contractor, without the required instructions without the necessary directions, cannot carry out the work and thus sit and wait. What you understand, I guess, is not for free. And, as our Prime Minister says, "the free man died." This also applies to the state itself. The state's frugality costs expensive and ultimately costs citizens' pockets too. There are huge problems, as it seems, in the financing of the project. The "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, which would provide financial support for building C, calls for additional guarantees, obviously because it is well known for the Greek administrative impediment. The project according to programming was planned to be delivered at the end of 2016 with the beginning of 2017. At the moment, however, no one knows anything about his time of delivery. I would remind you that the construction site was delivered free of any kind of problem to the new leadership of the Ministry following the change of government in January 2015. I would also remind you that a mosaic and museum study was being prepared with the prospect of joining the NSRF 2014-2020 and, indeed, with a budget of EUR 10 million. It's been two years since. In your first official media briefing on March 1, 2017, you said, among other things, that the effort made by the Ministry of Culture, the Gallery and the manufacturer have a common goal, to complete the building, because you understand it as a national project. And that's what it is. And I ask you, Minister: how does the Ministry implement this objective? What did he do for two years in the direction of completing the project? We arrived in March 2017, to tell us that the project will be relaunched today, will the study enter into an award procedure? And until this process is completed, will the manufacturer be paid? And if it's not paid, will it be compensated? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Are you telling me that the inauguration of the new building is scheduled for the end of 2019 or early 2020 for something that the inauguration had to take place today? You also proudly communicate to ensure an impressive exhibition of the inauguration of the Louvre Museum entitled 'Hommage au Louvre'. with an endless project that the manufacturer rained? Or didn't it rain them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u125	Complete, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President, in two minutes. And I ask you, what is the course of the expansion project of the National Gallery? What is the fate of its funding from European and national resources, as well as from the resources of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u127	Mrs. Kefalidou, please put the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u128	It's a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u129	I left you three times a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u131	No, it cannot be done because neither the Rules of Procedure allow it and you will want to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u132	It's about a lot of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u133	Nice to go in thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u134	What is the fate - I say again - of funding from European and national resources and from the resources of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation? On 31 March 2017, the GSC expires the EUR 11 million of the Ministry of Finance and it should be ensured that there is room for further disbursement. Next question: How did the Ministry deal with the construction company and the dismantling of the contract? And what does it cost the Greek citizen every day of delay? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u135	Now you know what's going on, Minister? Some colleagues and colleagues know the weakness I have with them, love because of old friendships and take advantage of it. Don't do the same. You don't know it, but I happen to have seen you in almost all your plays, which means you're learning it tonight. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try not to misuse time. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Kefalidou, I would like to make a brief regression on the issue of delays. There have indeed been delays. But why? Once work on the new Gallery building started in the summer of 2013, it was found that it had not been foreseen to change the water supply level from the metro and the garage projects. It has therefore taken a period of one and a half years to sign the Supplementary Convention in March 2015, in order to amend all the studies. The work of the corresponding Supplementary Convention was completed in March 2016, much later than January 2015. In the same summer of 2013 in Building A during the construction process, the presence of hazardous materials - namely asbestos - under the pseudo roofs of the building was found. As of September 2015, these materials were removed and the condition of building A was restored. In September 2015, after removal of asbestos from the building's bearer A, a static study of the original plans and the existing situation is found to be inconsistent. All existing ones had to be captured by bringing an organisation in building A and making a correct repetition of all static study based on the new data. Rehabilitation of the bearer was completed only in October 2016. As a result, in January 2015, we did not receive a free, as you said, of all kinds of construction problems but a construction site with serious loose ends and a series of problems to be solved and updated. Today, in fact, a request has been made for the dismantling of the contractor by the contractor. However, the service of the Ministry of Culture and Sport has denied the imminent dissolution, claiming that the contracting company is mainly engaged in building A on the basis of a contract. Up to now the work of the new Gallery building and the Ministry of Culture, as well as the Gallery, is helping in every way, providing guidance to the contractor to resolve any issues arising in the work. So we are far from talking about a Ghost Ghost of the capital and much more about oligopoly. In order to ensure the smooth operation of B and C buildings and to continue a work of national scope and not only, we are working closely and at a pressing pace with the address of the National Gallery, with the region and of course with the Foundation "Stavros Niarchos". We provide all the necessary guarantees for the future relocation and operation of the Gallery at the end of 2019, which is planned to deliver the extension of the building. In particular, they are already committed to EUR 805 000 from public investment - the process of listing the amount in the Public Investment Program - for the transfer and relocation of works - of about a thousand works of art - of the permanent collection of the Gallery from Wound, where it is preserved until now, in the new building of the Gallery, as well as the development of the equipment of the Gallery's amphitheatre, which will allow for its first year of operation, to organise conferences and have revenues. Additional staff, sixteen guards, have already begun the absorption process. It will also be made available - and is already bound by our service - technical staff, seven posts, which will also cover the new facilities in the Gallery for 2019 at this level. Finally, at a very rapid pace, the address of the Gallery itself, Mrs Lambraki - Plaka, in collaboration with the region, is also in place to commit the necessary appropriations to the implementation of the updated museum study. Here I would like to correct you. It's not 10 million, it's 4.5 million. So we don't indulge in all kinds of humiliations. On the contrary, our intention is to guarantee the smooth operation of the new emblematic area of the Gallery and thus to ensure the immediate start of work on building B, but above all to be able to set up a healthy and sustainable cultural institution of national importance, such as our National Gallery, for the end of 2019. By extension in collaboration with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and having now ensured the implementation of the latest studies of the musical work, we hope that in the spring the contractor will be able to continue his work without hindrance to the entire project. And I come to finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u137	Madam Minister, keep it for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u138	All right, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u139	Ma'am, Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. As you can see, Mr President, I do not have a complete picture. So on the basis of what the Minister has said so far, since we're making it a partial answer, I want to tell you, Minister, that I hear from you, that in spring 2017 we will be able to start, that is, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u141	Not continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u142	Keep going. Listening to you, Minister, you would think that you haven't had two years of your government. I have heard nothing about the lack of coordination on the part of the Ministry, which is rightly blamed on you. And I don't mean you personally. After all, you've only taken a hundred days, but before you there were your predecessors, ministers. What you have answered is that all the procedures are in progress, without having any applause. Nor did I hear any response to the wish to withdraw the contractor. He's inside and he's working? Did you accept the request to withdraw the contractor? Is it the contractor that's in there right now? Is work still going on? I want a complete answer. Also, any project delays due to the water problem you know that they were finished by 2014 and that what was delivered to you was clean. We know that very well, because that was the picture of the new Minister in January 2015. You, instead of opening up, tell us that you are preparing for studies and for competitions you are going to open. I ask you: Is there a mature musician and a musician's study? Are there implementation studies? And the answer, obviously, is no. The musical study, which you announced on March 1, 2017, had to be completed as from 2014. All that has been done - and you know it well - is in cooperation with the region to have signed a programme contract in order to open the final studies. So you come three years later, and you announce that there will be a competition to entrust the study. And when will all this end? The project had to end since 2016. With delays, there is a very strong possibility that the region will be forced to withdraw the project. So what political will are we talking about? Nothing you're telling us is guaranteed. Also, Minister, you have not responded to the orders to the contractor to adjust the contractual study that is currently in place with the needs of the musical study that will take place at some point. Do you keep in mind what this means to the project? What do these delays mean? How can a project progress smoothly when your services work early? Is it possible to be the fish in the sea and the pan in the fire?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u143	Minister, because my house happens to be only a hundred meters away from the balcony to see the construction site, you're sending for a surprise check on this major contractor to see how many workers work. Because what I'm telling you is that I see them on the balcony, but it's another thing to work five, another to work fifty and another to work a hundred to fifty. Do a surprise check, let's see how many he's got there. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes with a slight tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u144	So far no problem has arisen in the course of project funding. All the funding for the completion of the project is secured. I think that in all your resettings I have already answered, and I do not want to take any more of the time. I would like to refer to the second part of your question on funding. The project has been auctioned with funding from the NSRF 2007-2013. A contract was signed in November 2012 with the Contracting Company for the construction of the new Gallery building, totalling EUR 20,357.093, including VAT. The first supplementary contract was signed in March 2015. With regard to the amendments that we have said, this is precisely what is proven to be problems and needed to be updated because of the change in water level. Therefore, it was not complete and no unproblem was received. It needed an additional contract of 5.600,000, including VAT. In the absence of any other comments, the Commission concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. So to date, from the total of 25,000, 000, etc. EUR 15 500 000 has been absorbed. The remaining EUR 10,500,000 has been guaranteed as follows: From European programmes of 3,760,000, included in the NSRF 2014-2020, concerning building A and the environment, from national resources of 6,740,000 and from resources of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation. The object of the sponsorship and donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is the responsibility of the National Gallery, which has set up a non-profit-making company for this purpose. Thus, building B will become functional in this way. Therefore, not only will we not let the National Gallery be devastated, as you said, or turned into a concrete shell, but we are moving at a cooperative pace with all the stakeholders, with the address of the Gallery, with the region and, of course, with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, to achieve a common goal: deliver as soon as possible and with the few delays, a project so important for the Greek culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u145	Is there an application to dismantle the contractor, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u146	As I told you before, the dissolution has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u147	Is that practically what it means?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u148	Let me reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u149	That the contractor will be compensated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u150	Let me answer you. We're in dialogue with the company. The company still has work to do since the first contract and in the meantime we are preparing the opportunity to continue the project in spring 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u151	What's the compensation? A request has been made to dismantle the contractor and based on the public works law...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u152	We don't recognize the dissolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u153	The fact that you don't recognize her does not mean that there is no legal matter. It is a Minister's decision after how it will be compensated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u154	Mrs. Kefalidou, there is no dialogue in this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u155	But nothing has been answered, Madam President. I'll come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u156	Come back. The topical and urgent debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Will the question, pursuant to Rule 134(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, be debated by the Member of the Act of Heraklion of the Democratic Asylum PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: ‘Do you intend to open the countryside of Kallikratis?’. The honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, has ten minutes to start five minutes for a second. And so on behalf of the government, the Minister for the Interior. Parliamentary representatives have all three minutes, apart from Mr Gregorakos who in his prototype has six minutes. The time will be respected, I warn you, because it is a special procedure that lasts just one and a half hours. Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the historic route of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipality from '74 and then our prolongation from '81 to the beginning of initiative and changes in the field of self-government. From the appointed prefectures and the division of six and a half thousand communities, we have passed to modern municipalities and thirteen elected regions. This does not mean that things can stay statically in the field of self-government. The reform must be lasting, since European developments and, more generally, those concerning our country are running, new problems are emerging and social needs are constantly changing and expanding. Today, it is more than ever necessary for self-government to play a decisive role in the reintegration of the country, in the development and activation of all the productive and creative forces of the country. In our view, the majority of the country's reconstruction, development and the production of new wealth, as well as that of social cohesion and ensuring a minimum level of decent living, social protection and security for the family and every citizen, should be supported on self-government. Our prolongation by assessing the major steps, conquests, reforms and all the changes that have been made in the previous historical cycle, today with serious maturity, but also knowledge, proposes a major step forward, the adaptation of the administrative and self-government system to European data and national and local needs, with the brave decentralisation of governance, with a radical change in the state and taking on local affairs, in a comprehensive form by the municipalities and regions, with a dominant role in the planning and implementation of development planning. This reorganisation of the state must be based on very specific and non-negotiable reforms on the basis of the following principles: Firstly, the presumption of competence, which starts below and belongs to self-government. This means that, when it comes to decision-making, the principle of subsidiarity applies to the citizen and to the exercise of competence, it requires corresponding resources and administrative structures. The strong municipality is the basis of the reform. Secondly, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity of institutions and levels of development, those powers of the municipality are not exclusive to be assigned to regional self-government as well, which raises the great burden of regional development. Thirdly, on the basis of the principle of proportionality of responsibilities and the European Charter of Local autonomy, the internal decentralisation processes between levels of self-government are defined and their exclusive and shared responsibilities are delimited. Developmental type competences are exercised in subsidiary terms, while State-type competences are exercised exclusively. The exercise of competence in favour of citizens is not subject to the discretion of the institutions elected, but is compulsory and they are not subject to sanctions. Fourthly, according to the Constitution, the principle of financial self-sufficiency is an obligation of the state, which entails a brave redistribution of resources for self-government. Of course, this change cannot take place without a wider change in the tax philosophy and performance in the LAGs of at least certain basic resources, such as the real estate tax, whatever form it has after its adjustment, which will replace or complement the system of centralised resources. The government today, instead of relying on such a direction, after being regressed for a long time with self-government, seems to be unaware of the messages and needs of the times. It is a peculiar concept of neo-concentration and paternalistic control of local societies. Where does that come from? It comes from the treatments that have seen the light of publicity, the text of the committee set up by the Ministry of Interior for the so-called 'Kallikratis review', which, in our view, cannot be a basis for discussion. What we are interested in, and on the basis of that, we need to have the necessary public debate and dialogue, is government positions on matters. Unless the government simply adopts the text of these four hundred forty-three pages, but it is very contradictory and reveals the confusion that exists among the authors, and it will obviously also cause confusion among those who try to adopt it, even as a basis for discussion. I would mention, for example, that while at another point in the text there is a declaration in favour of the enlargement of democracy, of popular participation and other participatory procedures, it comes in and suggests the abolition of local communities, of the basic cell, namely society, and especially in the countryside. That is the big contradiction. Secondly, it proposes another election of municipal councillors without spatial reference to a municipal unit and at the same time gives the right to form a party and a combination only at the municipality level. The absolute contradiction! All of this seems to be 'tricks, bricks and horns', which, in fact, even if they proceed to the debate, will hamper the system - and only with the debate. The bazaar is a prerequisite for the healing role of the ministers appointed by the Ministry of the Interior of Secretarys-General. That's the design. This seems to be the pursuit of the Ministry. The problem, however, today, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is not so much in the internal model of government or government, although there are issues that we need to see at the same time. We need to see, basically, the central role of self-government in relation to the great effort that the country is making to get out of the crisis, through the necessary productive reconstruction, through reintegration. We need to see the resources for the responsibilities of self-government and see again the responsibilities it owns, but it does not have. Of course, we also need to see the multiple system of bureaucratic controls introduced in order to have transparency and regularity in all functions, but they have often resulted in these checks being ineffective and simply to create a problem, often encapsulate initiatives and actions by self-government. Of course, not from one end to the other, but through substantial consultation, we need to see what the best solutions are today for these problems. Minister, self-government today needs more socialization than stateism. It's two different directions. He needs more emancipation, not manipulation. You have left us indirectly - and this is a key element in which we want you to clarify your view - the issue of spatial change. Is this your pursuit? Is this a general rule or in an extreme case too? It is an issue that, as I have written to you in the question, has dealt with the public dialogue in Heraklion and Crete, when these matters were raised with the Prime Minister and the others who attended there. We must have a clear answer. Why, Minister, do you not resolve issues that arouses self-government every day, but are they not deceased and the subject of any reform or a major change in a bill that will come? For example, you promised me in January that you would bring a provision - and we welcomed this commitment - to regulate the citizens' debts to municipalities and municipal companies. You haven't brought her yet. It's already March. Why have you not made your commitment to the extension of the authorisations of Creative Employment Centres for Children and CSR - ASEAN of the municipalities, which are in the air? Why do you not correct the paranoid provision of the Ministry of Labour for the members of government - the provision in Article 20(2) - concerning the reduction of pensions when taking over service? I am saying this because for other positions in the public sector, an amendment has been tabled and it has been corrected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Do you have the will in the context of the proposals I have put forward for a radical transfer of powers and resources to self-government? What do you think of real estate tax in particular? Why do you not organise - and this is a central question - the institutional dialogue on self-government reform, starting with the statement of your own, the government, that is, positions, so that everyone can actually be invited to take part in this dialogue, why should we? We, too, want to participate in an organised institutional dialogue and we will be involved in highlighting our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u159	Thank you. Now the Minister for the Interior has the floor, Mr. Skourletis, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have tabled a question on spatial planning. Of course, you are making it easier for me, because you have referred too little to this and made an overall position on the issues of self-government. But I would like you to tell us what you say about the specific question. Because today's map, today's image of primary self-government is your choice. You want to change it? What are you suggesting on this? So what do you think? What do you propose on behalf of your space, that you give up on these issues? The truth is that today's map of self-government, as emerged from Law 3852, has failed successfully to incorporate the real situations of our country's geographical, transport and economic reality. That is why there are cases that do not work. But it is not - and I would like to be quite clear - the circumstances of this kind to open up a general debate on spatial planning. I categorically say that. It is not our intention in the foreseeable future to open up this debate. There are, of course, cases with the drop-hole that is worth seeing now and agreeing. It's something that's going to be a common place. This is an easy debate. The other great debate presupposes other things, so that we can do it and possibly lead us to a situation in the field of spatial planning. You said that your resignation has taken the lead in the reforms of the last decades and it is a reality. You, in fact, have been holding the baton for many years, you have been able to make attempts to reform and we have led to today's problems. I don't understand your position if it has a self-criticism. I accept the challenge of lasting reform, and that is exactly why we set up this committee in mid-February last year, not to come up with a closed proposal, but in a context in which the four hundred pages and pages were published at the end of February, which could be a material. We have told all tons that this does not bind us. There are aspects that we agree with. There are some with which I would personally say that I am opposed. For example, I do not agree with the abolition of local councils. I agree with your remark. I also do not like the idea of the administrative secretary, as the committee approaches him. But we have not made it clear at the outset that the conclusion of this committee, in which everyone participated, is nothing but codify at different speeds, if you want - elsewhere it is more detailed, elsewhere it is a general context - and we can take the opportunity to have an organised debate. I therefore repeat that I am at least incomprehensible to the CEDEFOP's attitude, which is shooting the debate. So far, there has been a criticism of the government in tabling its proposals and restricting the possibility of dialogue. Now that we have gone in a way open enough to start a first-class debate, it is protesting. I therefore think that we will be able in the next few months to continue to exchange views in this Chamber and elsewhere, so that, in fact, we can follow what you have said, a constant course of reforms to what is mature, what we have seen in these years of implementation of the Callicrat and with the conditions that exist, because otherwise we would have had this debate in 2008 and 2009 than we have now and given that we are living in conditions of a deep economic crisis, there are restrictive policies and austerity policies. All of this, obviously, did not leave self-government untouchable and the more than 60% reduction in the resources of selfgovernment is something that you charge, gentlemen, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. So that's right. I found that Mrs. Gennimata also made an interesting report on Saturday morning at the EFF for self-government. It was very interesting topics. The content of the proposal is to see the specific conditions of restrictive policies. Of course, responsibilities must be followed by resources, otherwise it is an empty shirt. So there we must bend and see how we can use the tools at our disposal. What I have not heard, and I really am surprised - and I do not think you should avoid - is the issue of the electoral system. Mrs. Genuine didn't say anything about it. Is that a secondary matter? Is the vote right, for example, for Mr Vorides, to see him here in front of me, in some cases count multiples, while mine is divided, if I live outside the second round, and I am in some shape and have supported some form in the municipal elections? Is that a concept of democracy, a representativeness of real popular relations at the level of local societies? Are the problems of self-government in which there are no compositions, approaches, shocks? Are they that big? Are these about big geostrategic issues? Can we not agree on how waste management, urban planning, local development issues, democratic planning for the role of self-government? So why cannot we favour a similar electoral system which will enable it to invade forcefully new forces in the case of self-government? The case of self-government cannot be a culpture of the central political scene. Alas! It's an old, outdated concept. It is this concept, which leads to manipulation rather than emancipation. Because your works and days are characterized by an attempt to manipulate self-government. Unfortunately, this cost the place. Unfortunately, the history of our country is a story of lost opportunities in the area of self-government. So we can see how we can make use of what we have today. I would like to tell you that in these two years and a few months, which is our Government in things, it was obviously unable to increase resources to self-government directly through the CAP. However, it has directed funds from the NRP, which go beyond activated programmes currently implemented at 2,027,000, while another amount of 1.2 million is now being launched. Moreover, 800 million were provided by the EDP, while 494 million went to socially beneficial projects in self-government. These resources have been managed by self-government. These resources have come to local communities, even though the conditions have been difficult. I agree that we need to see the issue of redefining competences on the basis of experience so far. Personally, I am not satisfied with the relationship between the first and second levels of self-government and decentralised administration - we must always see it - within the framework of the Constitution. If we want to make a deeper reform, then we should look at this issue in the context of the constitutional review. These are issues which, in one way or another, have been raised and we have a great deal to say. I hear a lot of things that are imaginable. A moment ago, a journalist called me from a newspaper and said: "Is it true that you will bring the elections forward and make them in 2018?" Where and where? No one has the right to do that. The term of office shall be five years. So the elections will take place after this five-year term of office of the constituents has been exhausted. But there are a lot of things that we need to get to grips with. The good intentions and general approaches are now enough. Are we going to talk about the very interesting, multi-formal typology of the municipalities in Greece today, which is characterized by dozens of small island municipalities, which also have special characteristics from mountain municipalities on the other hand? It's another municipality of 2nd Athens and another rural municipality. Can all of these in the circumstances have the corresponding services, so that they can meet real vital needs? There, then, we have to work, so that we can become more specific. And I would ask you, when you talk to people of self-government, whatever space you come from, not to mock or cultivate a special self-government - local populism, as I would say, that everyone decides everything about his place. It's not like that. Because there are major public policies, around health, spatial planning, the environment, where either they are constitutional requirements or they concern large public policies which are responsible for the central government. Obviously, the various policies must be implemented within the limits of locality and regionality. I therefore believe that today's debate also contributes to a dialogue that has de facto begun. And it is very interesting and we can do so in a systematic way, so that where we agree, where we stand, we can reach common positions. After all, the current government has the responsibility of the final choices, and that will be judged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the General School of Twins and Gymnasiums, the lyric classes of Metaxas Evros. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Leonidas Gregorakos has the floor from the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, we have in good faith asked the question, because on 20 December the Prime Minister had gone to Crete and said that he would make changes to Kallikrates in order to deal with his malfunctions. And because, Minister, 'the minds of the children before they were hungry', we came here to tell us your views, because we heard different opinions these days and these views were specific and targeted, only in terms of changing the election of the mayors and the local government. I didn't hear any other suggestions. We are open to every reform proposal, which will be comprehensive, but which before you bring it here we will have discussed. You won't come on your own then and you'll ask us to support you. Forget it! After all, you have had this with the evaluation these days. For there is, of course, a general sense and you have spoken of a hundred and eighty Members of Parliament who have made various proposals on how to overcome the crisis. Because the crisis is a great one and it needs consensus, which, of course, once, three years ago, was an allergic shock for you. When we talked about consensus and asked you for something, you were across the street. The door was closed and there was a wall! But, Minister, unfavourable developments in the economy show that we are going backwards rapidly, that Greece is in a difficult position and that this SYRIZA-ANEL conflict lacks a plan to exit the crisis. Because it's a little radical, it's a little anti-capitalist, you have your own personal ideas, there's a Left, there's a part of the party that has a European perception, you have a lot of populism, you have nationalism. Of course, the most special thing of all is that - I have not seen it, I have not seen it in the debate today, I have seen that you have been very careful in what you said - there are ministers who have a conscientious view of justice in the media. They want the manipulation of the state. I hope you don't want the manipulation of local government. Anyway, this last period of time in two bills I was the rapporteur for I have seen a huge wave of rhetoric and customer relations. In this, Mr President-in-Office, we in local government, and in particular in a reform plan, the 'KALIKROAT' - followed by another major reform of Aleks Papadopoulos, the 'KOPESITRIA' - at least as long as our forces are on the table, we will be across the street. And we will be across, because now two years - you know, two years have passed, Minister, you are no longer young - your relations with self-government remain cold. You're watching events. Of course, if anyone wants to explain that, it's because it's something foreign to you. We have not even seen your suggestions at your conferences. You have already asked Mr Kegeroglu to tell you our proposals. I'll tell you our suggestions. I didn't hear you tell us. You're the government. We'll listen to you. Ours, when we come to power, and if we ever become power again, we will tell you, or New Democracy, when it comes, will tell us. But I want you here today, when you get into your dentistry, tell me what you're going to do, what you're thinking to do. That is what I wanted you to answer today. That is what my colleague asks you to do. Two years, therefore, neither regional nor locally took place. Your only concern, Minister, is how to control and manipulate the institution of decentralisation. You have set up a committee to which the local government forces have shut you down. You have a glimpse of customer relations - that impression you give - and party dependencies. If you are currently appraising your presence in local government in the two years - which is a living area of local government, municipalities and regions - you will find a deficit which is unprecedented. And you know what you're doing, which is too dangerous and makes 'jiz', why is it still too early to assess 'Kallikaratis'? You're trying to humiliate localistic contradictions and reactions in order to put a hand on "CALL". I believe that Kalikaratis still takes years to be able to assess it. It was a very big reform. You were across the street, too. He entered the life of the Greeks, has entered the political life of the Greeks, has entered the DNA of the Greeks, we have given great potential to the Local Government. We must give more, but we must measure it. We must be very careful and prudent in our discussions in Local Government. I don't have much time because I saw that my time was too fast. All I'm going to tell you is that our party's relationship with local government is with you. We left a print. I wish the other political forces would also leave a fingerprint. It'll be for the good of this place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. We did what we said. We want you to do things too. But I want to tell you something, Minister. Years ago, I heard Rutelli - you remember Rutelli, the Mayor of Rome, who was there on the issues of the Central left "Marguerite", then Prodi made him, if I remember correctly, the Minister of Culture - to support the transfer of a multitude of responsibilities to local government. But he said - and then I realized - that this was the greenhouse of 'berlusconism'. Remember what happened in Italy before "Elea" and with Berlusconi afterwards. So when I heard it back then - here I was - I said "see what Routely says is more than exaggerated". But I say it's not too much, Minister. I would remind everyone here that, when Renci lost the referendum, one of the questions he had included was the return of powers from self-government to central government, because he had taken very big steps, he had given very great authority to local government. So we believe - and Mrs Gennimatas has made a good suggestion to the local government, as you said, the day before yesterday in a conference we had - that everything that is going to be done must be done with cross-party consensus and not through a committee in which you have put some of your own people and which is monotautic. In particular, we should be generous, too promoted, reformers and subversive ones. I'm waiting in your dentistry to hear your own local self-government program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u163	The reason for three minutes is Ms Maria Theleritis, MP of Corinthia, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression - and I would say that this is often the case on the part of both the Greater and the Eleonian Response - that we are moving in a space of time, as if the time had begun to measure since January 2015 and that the current government refuses to discuss the urgent problems and needs of the citizens and the local government in this regard, since the government's foreign government's deficit of government to self-government is so. However, since the question concerns spatial planning, I am not going to stay on it, because the locations have escaped from it, and indeed, they have been enriched with more positions for self-government. I would just like to remind you of a few points. First of all, who has legislated for 'Kallikratis' with the tremendous desire to reduce the number of municipalities? And before "Kallikrate" who legislated the "Cavenger"?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u165	We are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u166	I'll tell you. Don't be in a hurry. And if I were to ask a different question - why, in both cases, we obviously do not deny that there have been positive reforms and changes from this particular party and the party which has attempted these reforms - I would ask: What was ultimately recorded in the conscience and memory of the citizens from these reforms and who has a responsibility for this fact? Who has a responsibility, which, if not exclusively many times and in most cases, has been discussed at the same time, and has been a field of conflict and dissent, it has been about the number of municipalities and spatial sizes, and at the same time there has been no real discussion about how local authorities operate, about how they choose, about the integration of democratic institutions at the local level and, of course, about the active involvement of citizens in all decision-making processes? I ask: why is this interest in counter-population and, in particular, in the Democratic Incorporation today by Mr Kegeroglu, who is retrospectively cut and poorly placed on the spatial planning issue, while it is precisely that of the party that designed it, legislated it and finally implemented it? And because you are wondering what the government, the Ministry of Interior and SYRIZA will do about the reform of local government and the change of "KALIKARAT", we say that the change of "KALIKARAT" does not begin, nor is it, of course, exhausted in the satisfaction of localizations, which you are now taking up as defenders of "the greater, the better". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, give me two minutes. You, those proponents of size, who decided to implement these combinations of the municipalities, why did you not consider these requests from the municipalities? Then it was a topical character, and today what exactly is it? And this obsession with the local community now, is it actually cultivating an indifference to hyperlocation and collective? I would like to point out to you, although I do not have much time, that this reform on the part of the government is a coordinated intervention. It concerns all levels of self-government and decentralisation. This will be done through institutional changes, which address the concept of space with broader criteria than those of the narrow administrative boundaries of the municipalities, because the space - both through international bibliography and as it has now been done - reflects and geographically reflects the economic, social, cultural and ecological policies of society and, of course, contributes to addressing intra-regional inequalities. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time when you were planning the KALIKARAT, the logic of size - the greater, the better - despite the doubts about this philosophy of many European countries and, in particular, Denmark, the system of which you followed, at the very same time as that country's assessments that increasing size does not create either better social services nor more revenue, but rather creates a huge democratic deficit in the country. That's what Denmark tracked it down. You should have taken this into account so that we do not go to this large size of the municipalities and that this depopulation in the countryside, like the democratic deficit, does not happen today. Both of these are components of local government, let alone our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u167	Mrs. Theleritis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u168	I shall conclude, Madam President. So we are now being called upon to face up to and try to set up the country and self-government again, and indeed we are called upon to combine the development role of selfgovernment with the country's productive reconstruction. There we have to ask ourselves: With this depopulation of the countryside and the situation in the municipalities, how will the development role be achieved in the real production reconstruction of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u169	I've realized what will happen now, but what can we do? I would remind you that speaking time is three minutes. Mr Mavroudis Voridis from New Democracy, Member of Attica Law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Madam President. It is clear, if I understood correctly, that a slight, perhaps not so slight a contradiction between what the government said and what the parliamentary group supports it has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u171	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u172	And I'll say why. Because the Minister's position on landfill is a position which I first understand and I think it is the right position. What's he saying? It cannot be opened, so limited speeches will be made, pointless, focused. I shall say on what basis, in my view, these must be done. Mrs Thyleritis, from what I have understood, you have strongly criticised the issue of sizes, and this therefore opens up a debate on the fact that you do not generally like the situation as it stands. You would therefore see a review in the direction of returning substantially to the work done by KALIKARATIS. In order to discuss spatial planning, however, I will agree that clearly the criteria cannot be localist. Some criteria must be set objectively and rationally, which must be linked primarily - I see at least - to the development potential of a municipality. We therefore want administrative, operational units which can support the development actions of local societies in particular. This is just opening up a debate. I will say a few thoughts. There was a criterion, for example, based on the islands. There we have very small islands, which are municipalities, which are very questionable if they have such administrative capacities and infrastructure. One can think against it. For example, from our point of view, Mr Athanasios has submitted to you - I think from 3 March - a question which raises, for the large islands, whether the very large islands can be a municipality and whether it is functional for a municipality to be a municipality. I repeat that here the criterion is not whether the first community is fighting with the second community and who would like the first or second. The criterion is to see whether these combinations are functional and effective and at what points. I think it is an interesting debate, which should take place, as long as we clarify the criteria with which it will take place. But I turn to the issues raised by Mr Kegeroglu's question - the question which has not been answered and which comes to be discussed under this procedure - which were quite broader. In order to end the proceedings, there is a conclusion here of a committee. This conclusion has, in fact, been adopted by law. In other words, it is foreseen to be adopted as a legislative provision. So it was rightly drawn up. The interesting question, Madam President, is not whether or not the conclusion has been drawn up. That committee did well, too. It puts forward its proposals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. It won't last long. The interesting question is whether these are the government's proposals and whether they are adopted. You answered our previous debate. The Minister answered my question as follows: 'Maybe we can adopt some of these proposals in part. In the middle of the year there will be a text which is partly based on this text and which will also have some other which will form the basis of the debate." Right, I think I'm giving your answer last time. Now, that's how the question comes back. In your dialogue, will you take into account the institutions set up? Because you have entered an argument and a discredit of these institutions. And I'm talking about the CCT. There's no point in deceiving the CSCE, whether you like it or not. The CEDEFOP must speak. And you have, in my view, two procedural possibilities. Or you will start a dialogue on a zero basis "Come to discuss it is all open", without post, or you will take a position as government and submit it to the debate. At the moment, however, there is a text which, I repeat, presupposes negative. Because, of course, and it is negative - to put myself in a position, you know what we think about mere analogous - because you are putting the question of voting in the same way and you are completely forgetting the issue of the capacity for effective municipal governance. But that's not all, because here we need to see the rest of your positions on governance. I hear something about people's councils, neighbourhood councils, popular referendums, the Secretary-General, who will be appointed, but will not be appointed, but will be from the register of executives, and where will they be from? I hear something about limiting the responsibilities of mayors, transferring powers to the municipal councils. This is what is, in fact, a political plan to undermine efficiency. And I will say, Minister, that you have confirmed that today. Because in your argument for simple proportionalness, today, you did not tell us anything about governance. You said the well-known argument that the simple analogy of the vote, but you also said the most interesting one that, in my opinion, reveals a political project, invade forcefully new powers in self-government. I'm sorry, what powers? Because what one understands behind the wording on the momentum of the new forces is that today SYRIZA has no power to self-government and you think that with simple analogue SYRIZA will play a role in self-government. The political plan is therefore not the same as the vote. The political plan is the new powers - see now SYRIZA - which will actually put the mayors hostage in order that no decision can be taken without the consortium of the specific political forces that are committed to the SYRIZA. So here - I shall end, Madam President - the debate must be one and we must put our priorities right. One is the issue of the country, the growth of the economy. One is the question of public administration, of contributing to this economic growth and growth. One is the primary issue of self-government, its contribution to this effort. And this is where, in our view, we need to focus the debate on the reform of self-government. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u173	Because you protest, when one loses time and I tolerate it, you now understand how the follow-up will go. From the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Barbarousis, Member of the Iatolian and Akarnania, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u174	Thank you. Another question of PASOK, this time about Kallikrates. I mean, to understand, he's been asking PASOK about something that's brought into effect. You're about to ask, gentlemen, a question about the scandals of the stock exchange, the Olympic Games and the armaments and you're going to be totally mad at us! Unless you think that because you changed your name from PASOK to Democratic Incorporation, it relieves you of the sins of the past, which until now are burdening our country and our people. Either way, as Golden Dawn, we were opposed to the "KALIKRATIS" project, assuming that it fragments communities, dissolves the social fabric in the provinces and is highly dysfunctional compared to the citizens. Our movement was against this architectural creativity and we were entitled for a pluralistic time on this issue, since all municipalities have been bankrupt, just as the parties that had brought these laws have been bankrupt. The main cell of the state and administrative model that Golden Dawn promotes, according to the patriotic social spirit, is the municipality in which the political, social, economic and cultural life of the people develops. Golden Dawn believes in the need for an absolute decentralisation of services, functions and functions, so that each municipality becomes an independent political, social, economic, cultural and administrative body, a creative member of the popular community. The municipality must become a functional and administrative cell in absolute correspondence with the central government. Thus, all services will be in the municipality's jurisdiction and will be controlled sovereignly by the central authority. Decentralisation must be universal, including every service, from economic to judicial. An indicative example is that of the Municipality of Ruva in Messara. The residents of the region with constant letters to the Region of Crete request the establishment of the Municipality of Rouva, stressing that as long as it operates on "KOPONISTRIA" there was never any economic problems, while its development intervention exceeded its size. The municipality of Ruva, if it were to operate today, taking into account the cuts made to the municipalities, would have an annual revenue from the central self-resources of EUR 510,000 and a compensation of EUR 310,000, i.e. a total of EUR 820,000. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want a minute, Madam President. In 2010, his expenses totalled EUR 45 000 per month, i.e. EUR 540,000 per year. He has Technical Service, Economic Service, Organic Cleansing, Recycling, i.e. all the services he was supposed to be provided by the Callicratic municipalities. Of course, that is just one example. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, we expect you to do what your President has said to the press. In particular, on June 12, 2013, it refers to the abolition of 'Kalikrati', at the same time de-escalating OTAs, so as to cover the huge current deficit of primary democracy in our country. That is what you said, gentlemen, in 2013 as an opposition. Do the deeds. I fear, however, that these too were the memorandum you would culminate in and so many other lies you used to flout the Greek people to grab him the vote and eventually you didn't do anything and you wouldn't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u175	The reason for the KKE is now that MP Heraklion, Mr. Synthetakis, has been speaking for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, the New Democracy and the PASOK, as well as the leaderships of the collective bodies of local administration, the CEDEFOP and HNPE, have recently raised the tones of confrontation on the basis of the forthcoming review of the "CALIKARATI", while jointly co-ordinating until the CEDEFOP from the Committee of the Interior, the conclusion given to the public about the so-called "CALIKARATI" revision. This strategy, however, essentially links local administration closely to business groups in order to facilitate their profitability, is served by the current "KALIKRATITS", but also by the revised "KALIKRATS" that will come along, at least on the basis of the findings that we see today. For the sake of purely party settlement, there is an attempt to make a meaningless folklore differentiation between the New Democracy and the PASOK, the CEDEFOP and the EIA, on secondary issues - we all know that the majority in the CEDEFOP and the EIA is a New Democracy and a PASOK. That is why they left the committee - using its spatial planning KALIKARATIS, various requests for the re-establishment of former Capodist municipalities supported by local players - former mayors - but also entrepreneurs or their representatives. This practice, of course, is well suited to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, since this is the way in which the separatist lines are maintained in spatial planning, as is your disagreement about the placement of the Secretary-General to the municipalities by the Civil Service Tribunal, the electoral system, the powers of the mayor, the formation of the ballots, the abolition or not of the local councils, the referendums. What is more convenient, for example, for the government, as for the New Democracy and the PASOK, to focus on whether or not to re-establish a municipality - such as Ruva or Tymbaki - by exploiting localistic differences and even by handing the grip on the criminal and fascist Golden Dawn to use them and, above all, by cultivating the illusion to the public that the period of operation of the separate municipalities was better to hide a basic truth, namely that either with co-ordinated, or with separate municipalities, water tariffs, taxes and charges in all the municipalities at least equalises upwards on the principle of reciprocity, the reduction of resources and the obligation of balanced budgets? For the JRC, the real problem with "KALIKARATI" is not in changing the charter of municipalities, but in your strategic meeting for the state, the local regional institutions, which in many cases also characterises the essence of the committee's findings, and prefers the necessary institutional tools that will open the way to the new areas of profitability and competitiveness of capital. The strategic convergence points you have and the old and the new KALIKARATIS are the replacement of the ‘Economic Observatory’ with the ‘Reconstruction Committee’ and the ‘October Economic Aid Account’. I mean, Manolius is changing, and he's putting his clothes on. You are creating a mechanism that leads each municipality in time and from early on to compliance on the basis of fiscal adjustment measures and, secondly, development programmes at OTAs with their direct application to development law, serving strategic planning of business groups and not public needs. Thirdly, there are concessions - operating by business groups up to ninety years of the total municipal real estate with immunities for tax, fees, rights for the public. Fourthly, there is an extension of the Jungle and other forms of social economy to help increase competitiveness and, at the same time, create illusions to the unemployed and impoverished that socialist islands also exist in the capitalist jungle, while giving the opportunity to bloom the NGOs and the various networks that are basically controlled by members of your own parties. Fifthly, we are talking about increasing the own revenues by progressive transferring new tax burdens to the backs of the people's households and the legitimisation of fees through local administration, such as HISPIA, increased VAT on the islands. Already this is done, it is launched, such as the identification of debts in the tax office and the blocking of bank accounts for properties outside the city plan in Heraklion. Thus, the concept of remuneration and its extension to other sectors, such as green, is redetermined on the grounds that the revenues are not sufficient. In other words, these changes bring closer municipalities and regions into a more decisive partnership with private capital. That is what you agree, there is no disagreement. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, KALIKRATI, old and new, is the roadmap of reactionary changes in state and local administration and is linked to the general needs of capital and capitalist development in conditions of economic crisis and acute capitalist competition, which have nothing to do with popular needs. The JRC therefore rejects both the old and each version of the revised 'CALL'. The JRC's conception of management and management structures at the central and local level has the foundation of social ownership in the concentrated means of production, the central design of production, with an incentive to satisfy popular needs. On this basis, only a modern and free state system of health, welfare, education and social structures can be formed, where labour and popular control, from the bottom to the bottom, will be structured first of all at the level of production and social services.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Synthraki, finish it up. You broke the record!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u178	I shall conclude, Madam President. On this line, the JRC stands against the reactionary changes that are exemplified. This is where we call on the workers, but also the local government elected in a struggle to claim the real people's needs, against government and local authorities supporting these reactive overthrows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u179	The issue with time is a huge problem. I don't understand how it can be solved. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of Twins (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The floor is from the Independent Greeks Mr Katsikis, MP of the Attica Prefecture. Mr. Katsiki, I hope you will keep your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u180	Madam President, to earn time I did not go up to the Step and speak from my position. So be optimistic. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, they say that if anyone passes through local government, it is difficult to recover from it. I say this with absolute openness, because I come from there and I've been there. The immersion in the commons of the 1st degree of administration and the implicitity of communication with the ancient municipality makes you eternally in love with it. In this light and in the perspective, I will try to approach the issue. It is a fact that it has been found that the combination waves that have been accepted by the local government, "KALIKARATIS" and "KOPESTRIA", have not collapsed, but have maintained, as decentralised institutions, the existing OTAs, so that today they operate, especially in primary government, on multiple and parallel levels of administration. Local and local communities are particularly weakened, since they lack decisive responsibilities. I will approach the malfunctions, but also the pathogens, if you like, for which we believe that reforms need to be carried out on this basis in five points: Firstly, the multiplicity of institutions which thus create overlapping powers. Secondly, the perpetuation of localist divisions, which has the effect of not cultivating a single conscience for the citizens of the new municipalities. Thirdly, weakening the role of decentralised structures, which were designed 20 years ago, were overcome by the real needs of citizens and the potential for development of intra-democratic decentralisation. Fourthly, restricting citizens' participation and substituting participatory democracy by electing organs as low as municipal and Community units. Fifthly, the increase in geographical distance between representation levels. The recorded difficulties and serious malfunctions linked mainly to geographical characteristics, such as islands, mountain and disadvantaged municipalities, demonstrate the undeniable need for different legal treatment and organisation of the primary self-government level of the regions. The need to revise the institutional framework for the operation of local government resulting from the Committee's proposals - established by the provisions of Law No.4368/2016 and announced by the Prime Minister himself in Crete - would be appropriate to include if not all, at least cases of necessary spatial redesign in order to reduce malfunctions and ineffectiveness. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Of course, I, too, had been invited and tabled, Mr Minister, to the committee responsible for matters relating to the Ministry of the Interior and the Administrative Reconstruction, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order, etc., with proposals, including the review of the spatial planning of the municipalities, which I will give to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsikis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And of course, Minister, you have responded - and you were clear - to Mr Kegeroglu's question, that you do not see such a matter in the foreseeable future opening up the debate on spatial planning. And of course that's something we respect. Besides, that doesn't mean you've answered that you never want to see it. At some point and when time grows, we believe you can see it. In conclusion, I say that because any change is only successful if it is accepted by everyone, it is certain that citizens, bodies and administration will be jointly invited to decide on a commonly recommended approach for their self-government future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Katsiki. The reason for three minutes is the Member of the Attica Law, Mr Cavalellas, from the Centro Association. Most of them today are from Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Madam President. It is true that the 'Kappostrias', 'Kalikaratis', etc., brought many important changes to our country, helping it to take a more European step towards strengthening the institution of local government. However, some corrections are urgently needed because mistakes are made. This is also the basis of today's debate on the question of Mr Kegeroglu's timely question. So the original intention of the legislator was to seal the institution of local government. In the implementation of the programme, however, many different problems have been created in practice. The responsibility of these problems lies with the government. A first conclusion is that the government has not paid the necessary attention and has not shown the necessary sensitivity. This results from the mere reading of the strict and critical comments by the authoritarian bodies on the conclusions of the Committee's report of the relevant Ministry of the Interior. Perhaps that is precisely why on Friday, the board of directors of the Association of Regional Authorities decided to set up a special committee composed of Mr Agathastos, President of the Association of Regions and the Region of Thessaly, Mr Bakoyannis, Region of Stereas Greece, Mr Katsifara, Region of Western Greece, Mr Tatulis, Peloponnese Region and Mrs Douros, Regional Administrator of Attica. We believe that the first reason in the ongoing process of legislating improvements to the cultural law must be given by local government bodies. That is why we as the Central Association will wait for the final conclusions of the committee and hope that they will go in the right direction. We want to have proper and efficient cooperation between the two levels of local government and we are willing to defend and support, with our vote, the right steps and positive changes. In this context we support the proposal to hold a joint CEDEFOP and EIA conference immediately with the sole aim of exhaustive dialogue towards legislative initiatives. I think it is advisable to refer from this step to the red lines set by the CEDEFOP yesterday in Thessaloniki, which are also expressing our concerns in the Central Association. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is, of course, an exception. There is an exception to the simple analogy of the self-government elections, and this is what we cannot agree, namely the enhanced vote, because there is a question of democracy and a question of logic, because my own vote that counts for a small party is 0.8% and the vote that belongs to a large party counts 1.2%. This is direct to the citizen, direct to democracy. Democracy must not be at ease. Democracy must be clean, clean. With the exception of this point, then, we are in agreement with the other proposals from the self-government bodies. My time is over. I want to respect as much as I can contain myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, too. The last parliamentary representative is from Potami, George Mavrotas, and from Attica. Here, Mr Mavrotas, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Madam President. I'm determined to surprise myself and be in my time, so I'm going straight to the point. The problems of self-government (economic, administrative and social) are caused by pathogens and inadequacies of institutional, political will and not by its geographical combination. Even in existent geographical distribution failures, the fragmentation of some of them would mean ‘the sweater dump’. It is therefore irrational and problematic to discuss the creation of new ad hoc municipalities selectively and fragmentedly. This debate should take place more on criteria and not on specific occasions, to assess what went wrong and what went wrong, and to intervene overall, to use the experience, positively and negatively, of the operation of the municipalities after the 'CALKARATE', which will lead to comprehensive interventions and rationalisation of the operation of self-government. Thus, the existing problems will be addressed. Some significant corrections to today's geography of primary self-government can be made after an integrated overall design. The basic element of rationality, geographical planning, therefore, is the definition of single-area development areas. Every single debate today is more to satisfy micro-topics, but it does not lead to sustainable solutions. So not in micro-management, but in a comprehensive optimal way, with uniform rules, with uniform criteria and not ad hoc treatment of cases and, above all, not in demagogic callippitic commitments and promises of a topical nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u185	Mr Mavrotas, thank you very much. You're really the surprise. We're on our way to second grades. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for five minutes. Will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u186	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. Minister, because you wondered about the electoral system, what I said of course also concerns spatial planning, but spatial planning with the logic that you set out and accepted, too, in contrast to what happened in Crete. And I cannot, of course, teach my fellow Members to read again about the Prime Minister's position on which we asked the question and which we ask that, although he did not discuss the major issues of self-government, he spoke about the issue of spatial planning. So we leave the landfill and go to the election, to which you referred, in the analogy. Nor should we focus solely on this. It must be included, of course, because we must also see the proportionality of the system, but we must not say that the mayor of 51% must be a minority, because this will be the other form of non-democratic operation. Of course, the too much bonuses etc. They also have their role in certain times and we should look at them. Besides, for the centralised system that you have accused us of not voting for, we have our own proposal with smaller bonuses and since these help and help to form governments. No bonuses for the bonuses and even too much for us to be clear. But I come to the essence of the debate, which really must be about what the modern role of self-government is, given the state of the country and its prospects. I will not go now because with those who have no historical memory to compare the sixty thousand communities, without the responsibilities of the fifty-two nomads and their role with the three hundred and twenty-five modern municipalities with their problems and, of course, the thirteen elected regions with their important role today, we cannot move on with them. But the vast society can debate, because it really needs a continuous, continuous reform - I am glad you accepted it - because this is the development of things and, of course, with developments in the economic and social sphere in Europe, our world and our country. Is this a debate going on about a different Europe of tomorrow and will we not discuss the development of self-government and the needs that exist? That is why we have also put forward the proposals and consider the role of self-government to be essential in the reversal of the productive model. It is Greece of the regions that will overturn the crisis and lead us to overcoming both growth and employment. And on that basis, we are tabling our proposals. And on this basis we are talking, assessing what has been done so far. And first of all, let us say that self-government has shown that in the social sector it is doing much better than the central state. Programmes such as Home Aid, programmes such as those that we devolved from the European Social Fund, at least 20%, programmes such as those implemented through the structures of the CFPs, CFPs, etc. demonstrate that we need to make the cut-off and the total of welfare social policy go to the municipalities along with the structures, open and closed structures for the CPMP, for the elderly, for the disabled. Let's see the same thing about health. Primary health care must be passed on to the municipalities. What the Ministry of Health brought us the day before yesterday to vote for the House, the TOMY, Local Units, says, Health, are headed by the Ministry, and the only thing the municipalities want to contribute, you know what it is? He's asking them for a roof, nothing else, to give them a free roof. Thirdly, we really need to take advantage of the experience of the North Europeans and see the enhanced role of primary government in education, in primary education and in compulsory education with local history, in its contribution. Let us see, Minister, that our experiment with the Rural Development Programme, which has been decentralised to some percentage in the regions, is a good one, because it has nothing to do with the bureaucracy of the centre, and we must finally move on and not just have an RDP, which implements central choices through the funding that is decentralised, but also see a dominant role in the planning of the section, even of the central financing section, the Public Investment Programme, but of this region. In particular, in regions that are autonomous in terms of geographical boundaries, this is something that can really go directly, because it is not linked to other regions. As far as the Training and Employment Programmes are concerned, the OAED, the institution which has now helped in its way, with its problems, etc., must change its role and cooperate with regional and local authorities. Local employment programmes, of course in cooperation with the central planning and the OAED, can proceed more effectively. We, the Guaranteed Income Programme, as we have prepared it, have entrusted the municipality with the local reintegration programme for the people who are part of the work programme. Why? Because the municipality in local society can play such a vital role. To go ahead and say that self-government has really proved that it can take initiatives even on new technologies, so that we can cover the digital divide, see the smart cities, which can take us a leap forward and make our own prospect consistent with that of the modern world. Finally, I would like to refer to the local community, the "cell" really of Greek society. Appraising the course of things so far needs to be strengthened by local communities and their activities. For example, in everyday life, they can flexibly, at no extra cost, if they are given a certain amount in advance, with a prepayment warrant and accounting to come at the end of the year, manage the microproblems that exist. And with an incision, being able without a lot of workout procedures, Minister, to hire a man who will be able in two hours, for one day, to correct a particular local problem that will exist. It's a conversation we had when I was at the Ministry of Labour and Mr. Gregorakos at the Ministry of the Interior. There were objections from others and it did not go any further. But I think it's mature now. Because it cannot wait for the municipal council to be convened or the mayor's decision to be made a damage that can be made within three hours of a man being paid by means of the building. So I close by saying that we are here, with our proposals, our views, our history, our positive or negative, with all that has really created positive work in our country. Because everyone is saying and accepting that if this Government was not in this time of crisis, unfortunately things would have been much harder for weak people. That's what we want to use, see how through the new data we can take her forward. That is why we call for an institutionalised, regularised dialogue, after the Government's views have been put forward, so that it can also work. A wider consensus is needed on changes in government. One law cannot be passed - the government has a hundred and fifty-three in Parliament, no one disputes it - and after a while and before the elections in 2019, another government will come and change it again. We therefore need a broader acceptance framework on substance, which is not only political acceptance, but also social and institutional. That is why we call on you through an institutionalised dialogue to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u187	Minister, would you like to hear Mr. Gregoraco before you take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u188	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Gregoraco, would you like to precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u190	No objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u191	You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u192	To avoid tritology!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u193	That's what I thought! Here, Mr. Gregorako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, we have been shown to have proposals. And we have proposals, Madam President, to the House and Mr Kegeroglou and I, and we do not "revolve through the engagement", every time we are at the forefront of the Greek Parliament, the scandals and the committees of inquiry. I shall therefore be waiting to hear the suggestions. I'll do it now. Let me see what the Minister has, because he asked us about proposals. Although he had to make the suggestions himself, we had to confront. We believe in upgrading the institution of self-government, regional and local. I told you with specific examples. I am not going to mention my colleague, because his colleague, Mr SYRIZA, made a criticism of the PASOK, for all the previous years, of 'CARBONITIA'. Let's get out of all this and spatial planning. I think the periphery is the link. We've made big leaps. We must therefore decentralise the state in the region much more. Because the region can be the real counterweight to an over-food, distorting, inefficient state that brought us here today. But also this region, which we have today, and we believe that it is the engine of all productive and economic activities, we need to look at it again from the outset, because the model today with technology, with science, with the very rapid spread of information, may have been overtaken. So we think we can all find a new model together. We support, Minister, that we need to modernise, reform and decentralise the existing central administration. It has to be done if we want to move forward. We believe that this incompetent, superfood and wasteful state - we are making our self-criticism, because we have also contributed to it - has led the country to the crisis. So since we have established this and with everything that the place has suffered - we take our responsibilities - I think we need to be set up and review our earlier choices for the better, and we can do so. I do not hide from you that as PASOK we have made our self-criticism and we will continue to do so and we are now self-criticising. We are not the enthusiasts of the state. At some point we said "let the private sector also enter into the state partnership with the private sector", but we too opposed choices that the Minister and a group from SYRIZA continue to fight. We went and said 'no to the PPA' then, but we changed later, because we know we were hurt in the country. So we believe that with the experience we have gathered, Madam President, we can all be bolder and we can do a lot of things that will strengthen the institution of local government. So we need to find an institutional symmetry between state administration and the unprecedented delay that we have seen in the municipalities in recent years. We should transfer responsibilities, but these responsibilities, as I have said in my prototype, we should not transfer them unnecessarily, because if we do so, there is a risk that self-government will not only become a caricature of the existing state structures where the state is not working today, but also overcoming them. Imagine - and here is the key issue, so I tell you that we are making proposals - what would happen at this particular time with the crisis if we had granted land use to the municipalities. I would like to finish by telling you this: in the new problems faced by the country, you said that you would abolish HISBIA. We say that a social-democratic proposal that embodies a strong and resilient social model in municipalities is the review of property taxation to transfer to self-government. So there are important possibilities, and we have made concrete proposals, and we will do more to find local government resources, as long as we do not want to replace the state, because if we want to replace the state again, we will again see shadowy aspects of the system. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the exit from the crisis will not come with our insistence to follow the memoranda to make a budgetary consolidation. Especially for this area that is fronted by reforms and with which Greek society can move forward, because municipalities and communities are the "cell" of Greek society, profound structural changes and reforms are needed in both administration and administration, otherwise if we keep thinking like this, we recycle our deadlocks and the country will continue to follow the folded road towards destruction. So courage is needed, and above all we need a subversive political reason, which will have the 'cell' of the reform within it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u195	Minister, you have the floor for five minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. I think there have been fertile proposals, but there have also been failed attempts to interpret my position or to place Mrs Theleritis. There is a great truth: as far as KALIKARATIS is concerned, as has been shown in its total geography, in the three hundred and twenty-five municipalities of the country, I think it would have been different if it had not been done with a view to serving specific budgetary priorities and policies. It was the beginning of the country's entry into the austerity period. And this criterion finally seemed to be crucial in terms of both the number of municipalities, but in some cases also in the state's limits, beyond the political purposes that have been in some cases. Of course, in the foreseeable future and because we are in the dance of austerity policies - that is not questionable - we cannot open up the issue of spatial planning. It has been heard - and fortunately they have not monopolized the debate - to attempt to manipulate local government on the part of the government. I would remind you of one of the first measures taken by this government, which is precisely in the opposite direction, what it has done with the decentralized secretaries. We are the ones who have not exploited the possibility of having party-positioned persons in the position of decentralised secretaries. We put the coordinators through the employees' register and yearbook in the respective administrations. So does this confirm the effort to control and salvage the state or self-government? I think it's the opposite. I believe that proposals have been heard, which should indeed be discussed in depth. For example, to see something specific: the proposal to transfer property tax to local government has been made. Is that enough on his own? What will it mean if there is a simple, mechanical metaphor? It means, therefore, that the Municipality of Athens, Thessaloniki, Heraklion of Crete, Patras will have received very large revenues, while the region will be doomed to be deprived of resources. So there is a need beyond the transfer of this tax to self-government there is also the logic of redistribution. Otherwise we're lost. Because we are faced with a hydrocephalic state, we are faced with an over-concentration state. These historically have shaped...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u197	In selfgovernment, which also means periphery.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u198	Of course, there's a periphery. Imagine the Attica Region what it will receive. It will multiply the receipt of the CAP. And what can it mean to regional municipalities today? What can it mean today to disadvantaged mountain towns or islands? On this occasion, I am able to remind you at this time of the recent decision, which we took on exceptional aid of about EUR 20 million of the eighty-five mountain and island municipalities, which was a breath in the given circumstances. And not only that, but it also applies to their administrative support. Three days ago, I had gone and spoken at a very interesting conference organized by the EBRD together with the CF, which is exactly coming to cover the proven failure, due to the lack of technical services and qualified staff, to mature and submit studies by these municipalities. So we also come with this script to show our own priorities and how we finally understand the better use of whatever means we have at the current juncture. I would like to inform you, because it was heard by Mr Kegeroglu's prology, that I hope this week that we will present this multi-brand plan, which is well known and contains very critical and operational proposals concerning the staff of the municipalities, the JHA, the possibility of adjusting debts to the municipalities. We will also have the opportunity, on the basis of the multi-brand plan, to have a specific debate on the proposed legislation, but again - I imagine - to have a more general debate on self-government. We are, I would say, fanatical defenders of the idea that we must strengthen what we call popular participation and at the same time deepen the concept of democracy at local level. These are some starting values for us, for our own space. And honestly, only as a joke can I hear, accept, what has been heard at some point, that the concept of self-government is foreign to the Left. Neither historically is this happening much more on our Left, the Unified Radical Left, which taught you the alphabet of self-government - and you know that. In any case, we have not come here now to make a historic journey. We are here to see how we can organise the debate in the best possible way, in an institutional way, in an open debate, so that in 2017 we can make some major institutional changes precisely so that we do not go in 2018, on the eve of the 2019 elections and - let us say - situations that will not enable the world of self-government to adapt to the new data. We are therefore making it clear once again: we have a material and we make use of it. It does not bind us as a government and I do not understand, Mr Voridis, why you do not understand that. In some parts we agree, in others you may agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u199	You need to tell who. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u200	Obviously. It's already shown up. I, in fact, mentioned some very specific points to which I am opposed. Indeed, I consider Mr Kegeroglou's intervention to be very functional, which speaks of a specific, closed budget for small projects in local councils and communities, if I understand what you have proposed. It is something that we should see how it can be implemented. You can see, then, that there is a possibility of understanding. In addition to the need for consensus on the biggest issues, what will primarily be called on to implement the government that will emerge after the 2019 elections, there is the possibility of consensus and understanding on very small issues. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close by saying this, since I was provoked - the truth is not with great intensity - in relation to the latter. My earlier statements were an opportunity, in fact, to reveal an irresponsible political attitude by the opposition forces towards the major issues that the country is facing today, but also to demonstrate, above all, the great contradiction between the party of the Civilian Opposition, which, while asking us to sign anything, to surrender, not to negotiate, at the same time tells us that it does not even vote for the positive countermeasures. This populism on behalf of Officer Opposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u201	Four years ago, you were in Greece, weren't you? Were you somewhere else? As if you were absent!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u202	I'll answer that, too. I'll say about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Gregoraco, what are we going to do here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u204	This populism on the part of Officer Opposition is really dangerous. And now, Mr. Gregoraco, your time has come. You're talking about us what we did. When we did not vote, we were making a criticism that was from the point of view of defending the people's interests. We told you not to surrender, to negotiate vigorously, while you did exactly the opposite. Just the opposite! And he does, is the truth, in a more effective way, the New Democracy, which is constantly coordinating with the International Monetary Fund and the most extreme circles of lenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on Question No 11/17-2-2017 is adjourned on the subject: "Do you intend to open Kallikratis' spatial planning?". The Minutes of Wednesday, February 1, 2017, Thursday 2 February 2017 and Friday 3 February 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u206	The minutes of Wednesday 1 February 2017, Thursday 2 February 2017 and Friday 3 February 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-20-S1-commons.u207	With the consent of the House at 21.14 p.m. the sitting is closed for Wednesday, March 22, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
