ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Notice of the President's decree on the termination of the proceedings of the second session.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-02-S1-commons.u2	The First Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Anastasios Kourakis, is invited to the Chamber to accompany the Archbishop of Athens and all Greece Mr. Hieronym and his accompaniments to the Continental Holy Synod, as, ladies and gentlemen, the Sanctuary will follow for the start of the work of the Third Session by the Archbishop of Athens and Passis Greece, Mr. Hieronymou and the accompanimentary members of the Continental Holy Synod.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-02-S1-commons.u3	The First Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Anastasios Kourakis, is begged for the premise of the Archbishop of Athens and all Greece, Mr. Hieronym and his accompaniments to the Continental Holy Synod. [[Archbishop of Athens and Pasis Greece Mr. Ieronymos and the members of the Continental Sacred Synod leave the Chamber, accompanied by First Vice President of the Parliament Mr. Anastasios Kourakis]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will also be distributed papers with names and information, because the vote will be rolled out in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure. It won't be done with a ballot. Everyone's gonna have the paper. Either way, the proposals are specific. That's why we're going to make a preparations, and at 13:45, we're gonna start the process. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-02-S1-commons.u4	The sitting is closed for the day, Monday, October 2, 2017 at 13.45', on the subject of this House's work: "election of Quaestors and Secretaries" pursuant to Rules 6 and 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, according to the special agenda that has been distributed to you.
