ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to inform the House that under the decision of the President of Parliament under No 4873/3165/21-4-2017 a Committee of Inquiry into the investigation of health scandals was set up in 1997-2014. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u2	The Standing Committee on Production and Trade also presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Recommendation of the name "National Accreditation System" and other provisions".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the eleventh question under number 625/20-3-2017 of the Second Chamber of Parliament of Piraeus, Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the payment of the contractors to several municipalities in the country. The Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Skourletis. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know very well that an important issue has arisen for the public contractors, who have been unpaid for four months. These contractors in several municipalities in the country have not received their legal fees despite the fact that their contracts were renewed until the end of 2017 with Law 4429/2016. However, some of the contractors in the area of municipality cleanliness are normally paid, while others, such as the upper municipality of Delta or the Municipality of Thessaloniki, have stopped paying since January 2017. It is because of the problem that the Commissioners of the Court of Auditors are refusing to approve these financial orders. Indeed, it appears that the reservation of the Commissioners is based on the fact that, after the last extension of the contracts, some of the contract workers in the cleanliness sector are likely to complete the twenty-four months of continuous work. You know very well, Minister, that many workers and their families have reached their limits because they have been unpaid for a fourth month, they have gone through Easter holidays without having the opportunity to spend these holidays and their families and their patience has been exhausted. Many of the workers - from what I am hearing - have resorted to justice and were entitled to the first level of some municipalities. As you can see, it is not a solution to be able to pay the costs from their pockets since they are already weakened. In the meantime, this whole matter has gone to the Court of Auditors' plenary and it is unknown when the plenary will decide. So, Minister, I have a few questions to ask you. To which very municipalities do you identify the problems of delays and how many people are affected by the delay in paying the recruits? By information I have is around the two thousand employees. Is that really the number? Also important, why have you proceeded with the extension of the relevant contracts, since you are surely aware that there will be a refusal to sign the relevant payment orders by the Commissioners of the audit conference? [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Finally, what steps have you already taken or will you take to resolve the problem and pay the pensioners? Because I know about your circular, but I do not think it has solved this problem. You have also answered the JRC, but I want the answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Mr Panagiotis Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ms. Big Economics, as you have said in your question, this is sometimes the case. So in this very case we have a different approach from some of the Commissioners of the Court of Auditors. So something's wrong. In other words, we cannot, in one case, be legitimate, in the majority of cases where contracts have been renewed and workers are normally paid for, and in others, not. So the problem obviously needs to be answered first of all by the Court of Auditors itself, which is in a process of convergence of its full-time work. So, in the face of this, we have nothing more to do, because we have neither the right nor the intention of substituting it. In addition, the extension of the contracts of those contractors until the end of 2017 was an act of necessity for reasons of public interest. It had to be done, and that's why we did it. And under no circumstances is the refusal to pay these people is not related to the fact that some of them completed their twenty-four months, because twenty-four months are not a constitutional provision. There is therefore no reason either for the mayors not to extend these extensions or much more for them not to be approved by the specific labour costs, which have already been provided. So, as you know, you referred to the reply I gave to the Communist Party of Greece - we also made the legislative provision by which we allowed those municipalities that claimed that they could not pay them, that these contractors were paid by way of derogation and from the budget of their municipalities. And we also sent circulars to the Decentralised Command, which has called on certain mayors and has drawn attention to them by telling them that it is not the right to apply the law as appropriate. The law exists, on the basis of which we have to go. From that point on, and you said yourself, it is that the Court of Auditors' plenary, and I myself have asked it to speed up, because there cannot be such an openness, very soon it will be so that, in my opinion, it will ultimately be possible to resolve this matter in a positive way. I do not hide from you, however, that I see myself in the attitude of certain hereditaries and political feasibility, that is to say, trying to interpret this regulation properly and trying to create a more general political climate of disruption, of course, at the expense of these workers. I hope that, with the Court of Auditors' decision, there will be no worker who will lose his money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Skourletis. Mrs Megalo-Economist has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u8	First of all, Mr Minister, I did not mention the JRC, which said "anti-labour policy" and so on. I don't see it that way. I see that they are people who are entitled to their salaries, but in such cases the Electoral Court has refused to cover the corresponding funds when the renewal of fixed-term contracts exceeds twenty-four months. That's a fixed one. In fact, Presidential Decree 164/2004, known as the Presidential Decree of Pavlopoulou, laid down specific limitations and conditions for a fixed-term contract to be converted into an indefinite period. Since then, it has been stable to deny the Commissioners of the Court of Auditors that they will approve payments when it comes to contracts that will exceed twenty-four months of successive work. This is a consistent decision of the Court of Auditors. Of course, the Ministry of Interior sent to the decentralised administration, as you said, the circular concerned, asking for the law to be implemented by those mayors who did not deliver the contracts or pay the workers. However, the problem remains that the mayors do not pay their wages, not because they do not have, but have the reservation on the part of the Court of Auditors, fearing that they will unlawfully, and fear that the mayors will then be accountable and will be found to have paid on their own initiative, since they do not have the assurance of the Court of Auditors, and will take them to the courts after the Court of Auditors. You have not made a certain decision, a circular, and you say 'I take this on my back, you pay them'. So I spoke to the mayors and they told me that they could not be exposed because the recurring renewals of the contracts were converted into an indefinite period of time. And so the circular remains inapplicable. On the other hand, you must take the initiative. But the problem is not generally now, it is well known and it has emerged in the past. But why did you renew contracts? I think you've been there for the sake of humanity, emotional, so that these people won't be thrown out on the street. I don't contract. But since the Court of Auditors does not accept this, something essential must be done. You are actually keeping the workers from being paid, forced and already asked for a temporary order, from what I have learned, from the competent court to temporarily take up some of the money due to them. I would also like you to answer whether there are indeed mayors who have made complaints of their respective employment contracts despite their prolongation. Has something happened to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u10	Ms. Big Economics, don't be general. Because in your second speech you referred to all the Commissioners of the Court of Auditors who do not approve of expenditure. I repeat that it is the minority of cases. So the majority of the Commissioners approve these warrants. So, here, it will obviously not be solved by any government or by the government to replace the Court of Auditors. That is why the Court of Auditors is convening its full session for a final and final decision. What we have done is to take the situation into account by making appropriate legislative initiatives. From there on, there is no other possibility, on the basis of our institutional role, for the government to do more. We and our political will and the institutional capacity that we have exhausted. We therefore expect to see what will eventually happen on behalf of the Court of Auditors. This President-in-Office decree of Paulopoulos referred to specific cases when it had come out and there is, I repeat, no such reference to a constitution that says that twenty-four months is the maximum. But from there on, these contracts which were extended at the beginning of their prolongation had not completed the twenty-four months. Some of these, along the way, during their prolongation, may have supplemented it, but that's no reason to interrupt in the middle. From that point on, I tell you that specific decentralised heads have already been given orders to call on those mayors who refuse to prolong these contracts or to pay the people who have worked to comply and the mandate is to do what is foreseen under the law. Finally, I would like to say that the government has an increased sensitivity to the issue of contractors. And I am not only talking about the specific cases of cleaning workers and those whose duration of their contract has been extended until the end of 2017. I am referring to that sea, this globe of contractors, who are many thousand, who are employed either in the municipalities or in the public sector, of whom we are obliged as a state, not just as current government, finally to give a solution to their hostages. It really should be acknowledged that we have this intention and I would like to say once again publicly that we are working on a specific proposal, which we will present to all parties, calling on all the parties of the Greek Parliament to come to an agreement so that we can rationalise the situation. There cannot be this Greek peculiarity, thousands of people for decades, for too many years to be under the contract, abused and on the basis of the European directive on the concept of the contract, and they actually cover lasting and constant needs. But I think that is what we will be able to talk about in the very near future, and that is where we would like you to help and help us find a definitive and sustainable solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. We move forward with the first with number 718/11-4-2017, a top-level question of the first cycle of the Achaia Parliamentary Assembly of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Athanasias Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of Health, on improving the legislative framework for involuntary hospitalization of mental patients. The question will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you not only for the fact that you are here today to answer this question, but also for the fact that your Ministry under your leadership has demonstrated the importance it attaches to both ensuring decent conditions for patients and guaranteeing their rights. But there is, Minister, a category of patients more vulnerable than the others, a category which is affected in many ways. It is known that our psychic fellow citizens are often confronted with compulsions, imposed by law and psychiatric practices: isolations, natural enthusiasm, mandatory pharmacotherapy, involuntary hospitals, prolonged incarcerations in treatment stores, etc. A patient, suffering from mental and non-biological causes, - you know better than I do - is considerably differentiated in his treatment and treatment, since a large proportion of his consent to medical acts is lacking in which he is submitted, a fact that testifies to the limits of our legal culture and to our humanism. We know very well that very important steps have been taken. Here in this Chamber very recently the law on the reform of the administrative organisation of mental health services was passed, a law on important steps towards decentralisation and self-government of mental health. We also know that the consultation on the integration of psychiatric cord detainees into the National Health System has been completed in order to ensure the provision of truly decent psychiatric care and the suffering mentally detainees. Last in a row, but not least, it is the bill that will soon be tabled by the Ministry of Justice, which updates the institutional framework of the Criminal Code for involuntary hospitals. It is a flagrant interference in our Criminal Code. However, it remains, Minister, a black spot, and this is about the transport of mentally ills, which, instead of being carried out with ambulances - I know how difficult it is, I am addressing you, knowing your sensitivity - are made by police officers with patrol cars, sometimes handcuffs in storage, which are more like prisoners and not patients, and sometimes - you know that - it is enough for the call by relatives or by a neighbor and for the prosecutor to be treated with a standard document. And in this case we almost have the sufferer's arrest and turn him into actual prisoner's conditions. I repeat, because I know very well how much you deal with patients' rights in general and with mental patients even more, I would like to know whether it is possible, if it is easy to regulate in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u13	Thank you to Mrs Ithanasia Anagnostopoulou. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u14	Mrs Anagnostopoulou, I think it is a question which raises a particularly sensitive issue in the functioning of our country's mental health system. It is indeed a difficult time for the person suffering from mental illness and his environment, but also for the health system, the psychiatric care system, the moment when an involuntary induction, with the prosecutor's orders, for consideration and then for forced hospitalisation. First of all, let us say that unfortunately in our country the rate of involuntary hospitalization has increased. It is very large and it seems that the crisis and the dismantling of the support mechanism, which is the family, the family environment, the friendly environment, etc., has aggravated the situation. We have a very large number of prosecutor orders for forced hospitality. So it's a matter that really concerns us. Law 2071/1992 explicitly states that the patient is handled in such a way that his rights and dignity are respected. We know very well, however, that in everyday life there are real difficulties, because we have people in stimulation, at a very difficult time in terms of the mental state. We also have an environment that is in crisis, and we have to involve the repressive authorities, the police, which, of course, many times - and this has an interest - ultimately favour the cooperation of the patient. That is, many times it has been proved - and this is also documented in bibliography - that the prosecution order is to be opened for consideration and then the presence of the police, all this environment of fear, repression, which in some way prescribes the patient to cooperate and often the original prosecution order turns into voluntary hospitalisation in the final phase. But there are problems. What you're describing is very serious and we know it. There are malfunctions. It's a difficult matter. There is also an issue of education, because we obviously also consider that there is a need for the services of the National Health System to be involved in transport. But we also consider the presence of the police in this initial phase to be necessary. In any case, in order to have a valid recommendation, we have worked with the Ministry of Justice and these days we will have an FEK to set up a special committee, involving representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health, special psychiatrists who have dealt with this piece and have special knowledge, representatives of the prosecutor and representatives of the Ombudsman. On the one hand, we will seek to have a proposal to change and improve the institutional framework, and on the other hand, what we are interested in is to have some therapeutic protocols for the management of these patients by doctors and at the stage of examination and opinion of whether or not they need a hospitalization, but also at the later stage of their introduction and hospitalisation in an appropriate psychiatric clinic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Ithanasia Anagnostopoulou has the floor for three minutes for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u16	I am very pleased, Minister, for what you have said, because I understand that - and it is confirmed that you are fully aware of the parameters associated with the sensitive issue of mental health, and I have seen that you intend to go ahead with arrangements that will correct or improve the rights of these people. I think one thing needs to be stressed, that until now we have had an indifference to this category of our fellow human beings and to their families, unfortunately - because together with the mentally ill and their families they suffer - and we know that this indifference is largely due to the fact that these people are not a calculated group of pressures, especially for voting reasons, etc. On the contrary, as we have seen with the legislature so far, this group is confusing a two-tier social demand: health and freedom with rights. You said, too, in recent years the mental suffering has increased for various reasons, which you mentioned. So we have a problem here which is not limited, but has become even more intense in recent years. We know that forced incarceration has been denounced both by the Citizens' Counselor and by many others, because these anachronistic methods have made more sense of the preservation of dangerous people, rather than the treatment of suffering people. So these dangerous anachronistic perceptions, as you have said, are preparing in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Citizens' Counselor. Leros, of course, is an example of very important. It must also be said in this House what the cut in public spending would mean mainly from areas such as health - not to mention education, but to health now - which some people have a slight announcing here, in their programme statements - especially the Civic Response - on health, when we see how many branches there are, which must be remodeled and reconstructed. I wanted to tell you, Minister, that it is the Federation of Police officials who have made the request, how they can be helped - I do not know how, you know better and have it analysed - or whether they are helpful, so that they can do their job, but not have the responsibility for such a difficult matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u17	Thank you to Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u18	I don't want to say much. The point is, we have a difficult issue. This is an open matter. A sensitive but at the same time practicable management is needed. It is not always very easy for these practical solutions to this type of issue and to this category of problems. I'm sure we need to cooperate with the health service and the services, who carry out the D.A.'s orders. I think this should be the perspective, to upgrade the presence of the ERC services. Perhaps we will also have to discuss this with the administration of the EMCDDA - a specific type of training if people involved in patient delivery are involved. There, of course, is also a rather formal issue, in the sense that the patient is supposed to be transferred first to the mental illness, but the examination by the two psychiatrists is expected to be carried in order to verify the mental illness and the need for treatment. In any case, it is a sensitive issue and I agree that these people are people who do not have a voice, and who are usually unable to exercise political influence. There are many, so I think that the question of respect for the dignity and rights of mental patients is at the heart of the prosperous and legal system of a civilised country or should be at least. As you rightly said, in the recent reform of the administrative structure of the system, we have, firstly, anticipated a decentralised address in the system. There are regional addresses of areas of mental health in each of which a decentralised committee for the protection of the rights of receivers of mental health services is set up. That's very important. Of course, these committees will be taken over from the moment the patient is hospitalized. We are now at the first critical stage. There is a need for vigilance and greater sensitivity, and I believe that with the help of the people, who will set up the legislators and experts who have a special opinion, we will, in fact, be able to go to a framework that is also operational, but above all, more sensitive in terms of the protection of rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. We move to the sixth under number 714/10-4-2017 a top-level question for the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health on the high rates of Cesarean crosses in Greece. And this question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mrs. Big Economics has the floor to develop her question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you know, the conclusion of the Greek World Health Organization's annex is particularly worrying, because the Caesar sectors in Greece have reached 56.8%, when the Agency sets a permitted limit of 15%. In fact, in other countries of Europe, it is important that the Cesarean sectors reach 30%. At the same time, according to recent publications, apart from private hospitals, very large percentages of Cesarean incisions are also in public hospitals in the country. The Greek Women's Society in a recent press release states that the high percentage is due to the advanced age that the Greek woman chooses to become a mother, in multiple pregnancies, in in vitros, but also to a possible "soft" medical exercise chosen by the obstetricians in their efforts to minimise the risk of lawsuits and sues at their expense. In view of the recommendations made by international organisations, which state that low-risk births are, on the one hand, safer in clinical structures and, on the other hand, that they must be completed with the least possible clinical interventions, one major issue arises: the issue of the existence of centres of natural birth, called byth centers, in which the monitoring and delivery of childbirth will be carried out by midwives, as is the case in European countries and elsewhere. These natural childbirth centres go beyond the reduction in the use of clinical interventions and the reduction in the cost of childbirth. So I ask you, Minister: What action does the Ministry of Health propose to reduce Cesarean incisions? There are statistical data from all hospitals in the country that record, both the way of birth, and epidemiological data, such as birth time, an increase in Cesarean volumes prior to doctors' holidays, woman's age, multiple pregnancies, in vitro fertilisation pregnancies, etc.Huh? Is there a plan for establishing a specific legislative framework for the establishment of natural birth centres, the so-called birt centers? That is what I wanted to say, Mr President, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ms. Big Economics, we have discussed the same question in this Chamber some time ago. Indeed, the picture is the one you described. I must say that this research and study on the part of the World Health Organisation is in consultation with the Ministry of Health. We, in other words, caused this intervention by the WHO, which made an excellent record of the problem and spoke to professionals, who are related to the area of maternity throughout the range, both in the public and private sectors. I therefore think that we now have a finding which makes it easier for us to take some initiatives and to make certain political interventions to limit a phenomenon which, in our opinion, also exposes our country and the scientific community and intrinsic women, pregnant women to the increased risk of surgery and, of course, exposes citizens, families of pregnant women, to the increased cost, which the caesarean incision, which is known to be much greater than the cost of a normal birth, whether this is done in the private sector or with informal payments to the public health system. I think, therefore, that we need, beyond finding out, to have a package of interventions which will gradually alter this situation, because it is obviously a phenomenon that has now acquired characteristics of a culture, a behaviour that is related to the practice of health professionals, and in particular of obstetricians and women, who consider it to be a safer, more convenient, easier option, which exposes to lesser risks, and to pregnant women and the fetus. I therefore believe that, in principle, there are very modern therapeutic protocols and guidelines, but they will be respected. It is encouraging that the Scientific Society of Mauritius Gynecologists has submitted guidelines to the CNS. They have been granted the approval of the ERCY and have been posted on his website. There is now a major question of a mechanism for monitoring the implementation and compliance of these protocols. I think that the scientific community can really take the lead in this and convince health professionals, but especially women that normal delivery is a safe option, which, in the circumstances of Greece, ensures safety both for pregnant women and young people. Evidently, there is a need for better training of health professionals, especially young doctors, especially in cases where a Cesarean incision has been preceded. The literature says that it is not necessary to repeat Cesarean next. But there is lack of education, precisely because normal delivery has been marginalized as practice. There's an insecurity. There is the practice of so-called 'ambulatory medicine'. Some doctors consider that they have their heads more quietly - let me say - in a possible negative event at birth by conducting a caesarean incision. So she needs better education. In addition, there is a need for a mechanism where justification and documentation will be requested for each Cesarean section. I therefore think that these are critical interventions on the basis of which the operation of clinics, hospitals, if you like, even the administrations, who must monitor these indicators, which are many important. It is necessary to inform women and pregnant women, but also to familiarise young women in the process of childbirth and in the physical process. It is a fact that nature itself favours and promotes its smooth outcome. Of course, there is also a need to upgrade the role of obstetricians and obstetricians in the process of monitoring pregnant women. We've done a very important work on this in a bill that we've been consulting now for primary health care. In this there is an article that strengthens the role of midwife in the effort to raise awareness, awareness, family planning and follow-up of women in the pregnancy phase, but also to familiarise her with the idea of normal birth. It also needs a system of counter-motorisation - let me say - which will be able to neutralise the motives of convenience, economic incentives and motives with the logic of 'damaging medicine', which I said before, which have led to this very worrying phenomenon. It is problematic in one country that 60% of births are carried out in a caesarean section, when in the rest of Europe on average it is around 25% - 30% and when the World Health Organisation, as you rightly said, considers 15% acceptable. So I think that we are in a phase now that we can slowly, in cooperation with the scientific community, with health professionals, move to interventions that will change behaviours and set up mechanisms for controlling this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We're going on with Mrs. Big housekeeper's dentology. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will give you today's publication of the 'Presidency Newspaper' which speaks of this problem - it was published today - not just for private hospitals, but mainly for public hospitals. In fact, it appears from evidence that in a large public maternity hospital in the first half of 2015 nine hundred seventy-seven, one of which, in fact, three hundred thirteen were Cesareans, i.e. 66.6%. In other words, you can imagine how difficult there can be an explanation of this phenomenon. So, all the women were in such a difficult position that they had to give birth to Cesarean? [[At this point the Member, Mrs Theodora, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publication, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the case in both public and private hospitals. I think it's a "industry" of money, which means huge profits for obstetricians and obstetricians, at the expense of landlords. They've been given the message - I'm talking as a mother, I've had three children with normal childbirth - and they're terrorizing them that "you're only guaranteed if you're born with caesarean, otherwise you might have complications" etc. There's no other explanation. In the report by the United Nations Commission on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, there is indeed a special reference to Caesars in Greece. They urge us to reduce their numbers, because it's not normal. The scale of the problem is also borne by the insurance funds because of the large number of Cesareans. In other words, EOPY pays 600 euros - I've searched it - to a normal delivery and the amount is launched for public hospitals at 1,200 euros in the Cesarean section. I'm not talking about the private sector. That's where the doctor can tell you 5,000-10,000, depending. So, do you not think that it is wrong to think about normal delivery and to charge mothers and infants with caesars, which are painful afterward? You may not feel the pains of giving birth, but then the pains are the pains of an operation. I know, and I speak from experience. My daughter gave birth to Cesarean and presented her with the second child with Cesarean, for she had presented sugar. So, it's become like an epidemic to all women. Even though the epidural is here now, and they don't understand pains, they don't decide. They're determined to go to Cesarean. I believe that a special campaign should be carried out, and that they should be informed. It reminds me of the 1970s-75, when I gave birth to my first children, who were all against breastfeeding. The midwives came and said: "We will tie you not to breast-feed." The milk powders were then released for the benefit of the factories. I said I wanted to breast-feed. "Are you crazy?" They tell me. "I'll give you an injection not to breast-feed. Whack your chest?' It's things they have to get into some classroom. There is no information to women and they have considered Cesarean as the safest means. But it's not the safest, because to get you back together, it has to be two and three months. On the contrary, with normal delivery in one or two days you walk and it's normal. Here in the old days women were born in the fields and continued their work. This must be a legislative framework, with which we will create normal delivery centres, as they exist throughout Europe. Obviously, the safety of the mother and the newborn is preceded, but we cannot turn the normal process into a horrifying event and allow doctors to psychologically influence future mothers to reach this point. There's gotta be some campaign to be able to realize that normal childbirth is not an operation. Cesarean is an operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. You've done very well. I think the Minister will agree entirely with your philosophy. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u26	We agree that there is a problem and what is needed now are not findings, but measures of a policy which are implemented. It is not easy to deliver directly, because we need a process of changing behaviour from the point of view of obstetricians - gynecologists, but also from the point of view of other health professionals and, above all, from the point of view of women. Our logic is, first, that there should be information, awareness and documentation on the benefits of natural birth and potential risks from the Cesarean incision. The other stage is the protocols that will provide safety to the doctor that, if the procedure is followed, there will be no risks and possible complications to compensation for civil liability, etc., once the existing protocol has been strictly followed. There is also a need for intervention to restrict these mechanisms of positive incentives that exist today for the Cesarean section and, above all, as regards the economic aspect. We therefore need control, awareness and information. We're going to make a serious effort for a campaign at the Ministry of Health's initiative. I think that the scientific community, gynecologists, midwives, the other health professionals involved in social care, primary care, family planning, sexual education can really help, and our aim is not to talk about limiting the Cesarean incisions, but to implement certain practices, changes and interventions. I think we have an excellent scientific potential in the country, which can ensure that normal delivery is a safe choice for the woman and for the newborn child and that caesarean will only be done when there is a strict medical indication. This is an objective, and I think we can limit the impact of a phenomenon which, as we have said, exposes us internationally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u27	We thank the Minister and Mrs Megalo-Economics for highlighting this very important issue. Before going on, I would like to inform the House that MP Arcadias of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Vlasi, is requesting permission from a few days' absence in the United States for personal reasons in the period 25-5-2017 to 7-6-2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u28	The House approved the requested permission. We move to the fourth with number 678/31-3-2017, a topical question for the second-round question of the Athens MP, Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the deficits in the urban transport of Athens. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, everyone is aware of the fact that the economics of urban transport in Athens are evolving from evil to worse. The damages are increased and the burden that the Greek taxpayer has to bear every year in the last two years is increased. Because, by the way, in the context of hearings for new presidents and CEOs, there have been some fragmentary elements in the light since September, with repeated questions from me, I ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport to submit the official information to the House to draw our conclusions. Mr President, I ask for three figures. Three numbers, not four! I ask for operational revenues every year, operational losses and state subsidies in order to draw our conclusions. Since last September, the Minister has had a coma, the other day he finds some other reason. Last time I asked the question, he came to Parliament and told us about it in a magic way in 2016 all things went well, that the budget was almost balanced, because within the budget he also put the state subsidy so that, of course, the matter was balanced and the problem was hidden, and he knew that I was asking him to tell us what the revenues were and without the state subsidy. As the Prime Minister, Mr President, has said, here we cannot play the kubaras. It is depreciating not to me that I have been in this position of the Minister of Transport, but it is devalued for the House and for the government, that the government does not give three specific figures. I understand that these figures expose the government itself and the Ministry, which is trying to hide the problem under the carpet, but that is not hidden, because it is too big. Therefore, I am waiting today, Minister - you are new to politics - to have the elementary political honesty in the Ministry of Infrastructure and to make these three figures public. Be careful, because the thing is no longer going, I'm making it clear from the beginning that, if you don't give them the numbers, I've found them. I have them here, and I'll give them the publicity, and I'll testify to them in the Minutes. I therefore expect to see whether the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has the elementary political honesty and fundamental respect for the Greek Parliament to provide an accurate picture of the problem in urban transport. For Greek taxpayers are entitled to know what they are paying for with the "heroic" and "leventitis" government that today governs us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. Mr. Mavragans has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u31	I imagine you know from the position you served that Regulation 1340/2007 provides for the subsidy of transport, precisely because they are doing social work. This intrinsic weakness of the supply of transport work and of weak social groups, in which our Leventis Government in 2015 actually included - and well did - the weak social groups and the unemployed in those who are moving free of charge through urban transport, is provided by the entire European Union and is in the context of both the spirit and the letter of the Rules of Procedure. Now, you said there's a bad course in finance. I agree that precisely because of the intrinsic weakness of the provision of transport work and weak social groups, but also of the nature of the work itself, from which you have exempted the auditors who have provided a significant control and, of course, a reduction in the tax evasion - for which you have done absolutely nothing - by expelling and moving people and then leading them to early dismissal or retirement - since you have the data, you know them too - you have forced yourself in 2013 to give 158 million to the OSCE group to cover the gaps. In 2014 you provided 100 million plus 1 million as an emergency grant, totalling 101 million. In 2013, in fact, you gave an additional 30 million, that is, from the 158 million you went to 188 million. And in 2014 - so that you don't hurry to say that you won something - you had carried losses last year - for those of the Greek people who track us accounting, a few accounts need, they don't need much - from 2013 onwards in 2014. In simple terms, you did not pay, in other words, the 2013 obligations, you carried them as unpaid in 2014, so that you did not show a greater deficit and had an improvement of EUR 37 to 40 million. In 2015, your administrations - because they were still your administrations - anticipated a deficit of 100 million in 2016. Do you know how close it is? He's closed to 86 million. Your administration predicted that they would have a deficit of 100 million. And to go a little bit to the ticket escape. You know or don't know - to tell you - that for five years you hadn't appointed a ticket and counting department at all? This has resulted in this neural sector of ticket counting not working, a large-scale ticket escape was made, and we are now twice a week sending to the prosecutor cases of escape tickets. I hope justice will resolve these cases. Let me briefly tell you this: the area of urban transport is not available for political specs. It's a place where there's a social offer. And we feel this deep and will continue to offer the world suffering from the economic crisis, the unemployed, the sensitive social groups free movement, even though with the household we have to pay some money from the state budget. But I repeat that the household is distinct. Your administration anticipated deficits of 100 million and finally closed to 86 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. Here, Mr Hatzidakis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I knew what has been said, that there are lies, great lies and statistics. We must correct it and say that there are lies, great lies and the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Minister, what you said had nothing to do with reality. They were alchemys, I don't know if you found them on your own, or if Mr. Spirtzis told you to present them here in the House. First of all - and before all - and I do not know if you understood it - you did not answer what I asked you to do. Other words to be loved! You charged the previous government without mentioning a single element about these three numbers that I asked you to do: what the operational losses were, what the operating revenues were, what the state subsidy was in 2014, 2015 and 2016. That's what I'm asking you, man! That is what I ask you to do, and you do not say so. Why don't you say it? What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u34	I just said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u35	So because I am not afraid and have found the evidence - and I will submit it - from the OSCE report by 2015, I say it to the Greek people. In relation to 2012, 2013, the first year of the Samara governance, we had a loss reduction and a cumulative benefit reduction compared to the previous year for the taxpayer at EUR 110 million. In 2014, we had a further benefit for the taxpayer of EUR 67 million. In 2015, with your own government and Mr Spirtzi Minister, we had a deterioration for the taxpayer of EUR 33 million. I have the evidence and I submit it, and the OSCE's overall report and this table for each Greek citizen to understand the lies of the government. I can't describe it any other way. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From there on, you didn't tell us anything about 2016. Mr Spirtzi's previous figures show further deterioration, despite the ballots, of EUR 22 million and I suspect, if I can account for the data available on the right and left, that the deterioration is not 22, but it may even be 80 million more, while in previous years we have improved. That's what this is about. So, Minister, on behalf of your supervisor, you should today apologise here and not accuse the previous governments, because we all know that in transport there is a hammering, which you are spectators of, and you cannot speak of, us and the auditors, because from the headquarters of our opposition you accused us of being very strict in controls. While the auditors have nowadays been targeted by various groups on the right and left, you are watching abstracts, transport is becoming more and more problematic and you have not even done the elementary thing all over Europe. When transporting weak social groups - and you are right to transfer them - you are signing contracts with the respective ministries where these groups are concerned, the Ministry of Labour for the unemployed, the Ministry of Health for the disabled, so that urban transport does not become even more problematic. That would do a serious government. But here in addition to the transport deficits, there is still a greater deficit, a serious deficit in the government that governs us or pretends to govern us and every day that passes, even more so for the weaker. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. We're on our way to the Minister's second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I wanted to start secondary, but I will start with the following. I was surprised that the former Minister of Transport didn't know that. They had never signed contracts with the Ministry of Labour, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u38	They didn't?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u39	He refused to sign the Ministry of Labour, precisely because there were no exact sizes except for the MEDIs - and don't hurry to say about the LEADER, because we have a contract for the LEADER - and only for those who are under sixty-five and over eighteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u40	Give us the three numbers. The three numbers!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u41	Don't rush, don't rush. I told them before the three numbers, but you don't want to hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u43	So listen to this. In order for these contracts to be signed with the Ministry of Labour and other ministries, including the Ministry of National Defence - which has already signed a contract - it must be clarified how many use is being made. And to make it clear how many people use, so we're moving on the online ticket. One of the prisoners. Secondly, you said about the numbers. But I told you right from the beginning...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u44	Did you go through this, or do you see the machines falling apart? I was Minister, I signed the conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u45	Okay. So we say that the incomplete contract you signed is now being completed in its implementation. Leave the subject of the online ticket now. Don't open it now. So we say this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u46	Respect your interlocutor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u47	Don't interrupt me. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u48	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u49	There are limits, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u50	Political culture at least requires that you listen to the answeree. So the answer I told you from the beginning, but you do not want to hear, was that in 2013 you gave 158 plus 30, or 188 million subsidies. You asked for the subsidy. Watch out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u51	I asked you three clues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u52	I'll tell you all three. You gave 2013, 188 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u53	I asked about 2014, 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u54	Why, Mr. Hatzidakis, did you ask about 2014?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u55	But because I told you that we had an improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u56	When? In 2013, weren't you a government? You're in a hurry, you don't want to hear. You're interrupting, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u57	It is not a bad dialogue, but I must tell you, Mr Hatzidakis, that you are not listening. Otherwise, I would allow dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u58	I'm new to politics, but I have political culture. So I'm telling you that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u59	Culture is the constant lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u60	So listen, if you have the temper to listen. I am telling you again that in 2013, with a New Democracy government - I say this to hear it from the Greek people - it was a EUR 188 million grant. In 2014 it was EUR 101 million. You will hurry to say - I told you before - that you have improved, that you have carried losses. Do you know what a loss transfer means in the accounting? In 2015 - when it was us, that is - the grant was EUR 113 million. In 2016 you anticipated, with your administrations, a loss of 100m euros and closed with 86m euros. The revenues, which were EUR 238 million in 2013...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u61	You understand that one year you tell me about a grant, and the next year you tell me about damages.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u62	I'm answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u63	Yes, but please don't interrupt, Mr. Hatzidakis. You have the comfort to make an announcement and say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u64	But, Mr President, they are other than others. Minister, do you understand what you're saying? Compare apples with oranges.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u65	Anyone who knows very little accounting...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u66	What kind of accounting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u67	...they know that everything I'm saying is absolutely relevant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u68	I told you it was orange apples.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u69	You're constantly interrupting and you're not listening. That's why you're making miserable remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u70	Yes, yes, you will teach me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u71	You requested the revenue. So listen, the following: 2013 revenues are EUR 238 million and 2014 is EUR 252 million. 2015 is EUR 205 million, precisely because the unemployed came in and there was a loss of VAT.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u72	So, the deficit?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u73	But, I repeat...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u74	So say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u75	But I read the deficit before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u76	But you don't have to. Now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u77	Yeah, but don't interrupt, because we won't be able to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u78	We grant it to cover the deficit. You don't understand that. I said it all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u79	Don't I get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u80	You know, I don't want to hide anything...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u81	It doesn't seem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u82	...but I'm trying to say it completely, as I should. You want to say part of the truth, what you might want to target. But you will learn all the truth and the Greek people will hear it all the truth as they should, as they want and as they deserve. So listen. We have taken care of it from the outset - the unemployed and the sensitive social groups - and we did well - move in with transport without paying a price. Your government had never done it. We did so and we did well. We are paying this, in fact, for the general government budget. But it is a social offer and must be made for weak social groups. So you try to say that precisely because the unemployed are moving, the deficit has increased, the damage has increased. But you know what? What I'm going to tell you will be the last. The OSCE has 180m euros demanded by the Greek State, by the contracts that were not signed. He's filed a lawsuit...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u83	You realize that you just told me that the damage is 150 million euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u84	No, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u85	You said it indirectly. You received 100 million euros. You increased them by EUR 50 million, that is by 50% in two years. That's what you tell me and you're proud of.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Hatzidakis, you're not helping and you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u87	And you want me to listen and don't react.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u88	I understand panic. I understand him as the Greek people understand him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u89	So, do you realize what's going on? You'll understand it very well, because we won't leave it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u90	I get it. So I'm telling you, and I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u91	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u92	Yes, Mr. Hatzidakis, I told you and I read it to you myself. I'm not hiding it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u93	They were therefore increased by 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u94	No, Mr. Hatzidakis. Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u95	Minister, please, please, conclude the answer if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u96	To come to say what you do not want to hear, but will be heard, the OSCE administrations had demands from the Greek State of EUR 180 million and filed an appeal in this regard. We're talking about your own administrations that you've appointed. Do you know what it was? They were the non-payments of the Greek State by transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u97	Did I keep them in 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u98	We're talking about 180 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u99	In 2015, who was Minister? Who kept them? Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u100	The treatment was lodged in 2015 and concerns the previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u101	Who kept them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Hatzidakis, I'm surprised because I had a different...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Hatzidakis, please don't interrupt. Minister, please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u104	I expect ministers to have the basic honesty to say 'five' figures requested by the Members. You're insulting the House, you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Hatzidakis, I really am amazed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Mavraani, please complete your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u107	I don't hear what's insulting everyone! I will only tell you this number, which the Greek people are listening to, and I will insist: 180 million applications have been filed by your administrations against the Greek State by uncollected claims from the Greek State, by a non-collective transport operation. And today you come here to say what? Why are we transferring unemployed by buses? Nothing else, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u108	Is that what I said? That's what you understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as in force, on 24-2-2017: 1. Criminal proceedings concerning the Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Two (2) criminal proceedings concerning the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Nikolao Toska; 3. Preliminary ruling — Court of Justice — Court of First Instance (Fifth Chamber) — Court of First Instance (Fifth Chamber) — Court of First Instance (Fifth Chamber) — Court of First Instance (Fifth Chamber) — Court of First Instance (Fifth Chamber) — Court of First Instance (Fifth Chamber) — Court of First Instance (Fifth Chamber) — Court of First Instance (Fifth Chamber) — Court of First Instance (Fifth Chamber) — Court of First Instance (Fifth Chamber) Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, former Minister of Home Affairs and Tourism, Christoforos Vernardakis, former Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, George Stathakis, former Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, Nikolaos Paradise, former Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Georgios Katharougalos, former Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, TheanosFotio , Deputy Minister ofLabour , Social Security and SocialSolidarity , UraniaAntonopoulos , Deputy Minister of EconomicAffairs , Deputy Minister of Finance and SocialSecurity , Deputy Minister of the Ministry ofFinance , Deputy Minister of the Ministry ofFinance , Deputy Minister of Finance and SocialSecurity , Deputy Minister of EconomicAffairs , Deputy Minister of Finance and SocialSecurity , Deputy Minister ofDefence , Deputy Minister ofFinance , Deputy Minister of Economic Affairs and ForeignAffairs , Deputy Minister ofFinance , Deputy Minister of EconomicAffairs , Deputy Minister of EconomicAffairs , Deputy Minister of Finance and SocialSecurity , Deputy Minister ofFinance , Deputy Minister of ForeignAffairs , Deputy Minister of EconomicAffairs , Deputy Minister of EconomicAffairs , Deputy Minister of EconomicAffairs , Deputy Minister of ForeignAffairs , Deputy Minister of ForeignAffairs , Minister of EconomicAffairs , Minister of ForeignAffairs , Deputy Minister of ForeignAffairs , Minister of the Ministry of EconomicAffairs , Minister of EconomicAffairs , Minister of Economic Affairs and SocialAffairs , Minister of the Ministry of EconomicAffairs , Minister of Economic Affairs of EconomicAffairs , Minister of EconomicAffairs 4. Criminal proceedings concerning Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, former Minister of Shipping and the Aegean. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be debated because of lack of responsibility, the first with number 713/10-4-2017, the second time question from the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the immediate need to build the Port of Patras, since the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is responsible. They will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The second question under number 712/10-4-2017 of the First Cycle of the New Democracy MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the issue of an unjustified delay by the Ministry in requesting the Municipality of Kilkis to take over the project "Conservation and Upgrade of the National Stage Kilkis", will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Georgios Vassilidis, due to his full-day meeting with his counterpart from Kazakhstan. Similarly, the fourth question under number 697/5-4-2017, first question by the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarous to the Minister of Finance, concerning legislation to extend approved expenses beyond hospitals, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The fifth, with No. 723/11-4-2017, top-level question for the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Sakis Vardalis, on the loss of life due to the tragic shortages in emergency medicine in the Regional Unit of Halkidiki, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlou Polakis, due to a workload. The second question, under number 698/5-2017, on the rapid increase in unemployment in Kastoria on the Government of SYRIZA, due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Urania Antonopoulou, due to unsuccessful commitments. The third, with number 682/3-4-2017, timely second question of the MP Argolis of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the activation of the decision on the pilot study of the Argos' Zone of Economic Control (ZOE), will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Georgios Statakis, due to a workload. Also, the fifth question under number 660/28-3-2017 of the Second Cycle of the Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the reopening of the Samos Television and the context of the proper functioning of regional media, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information Mr. Nicholas Pappas, due to a workload. Furthermore, the sixth question, number 333/12-1-2017, on the financing of journalists and websites, of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, will not be discussed again due to the impediment of the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information Mr. Nikolaos Papapas, due to a workload. In addition, the seventh question under number 643/21-3-2017, the second question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the support and upgrading of the TEI Messologist will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, due to a workload. Furthermore, the eighth question under number 504/20-2-2017 in the second cycle of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Papapas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the fulfilment of the Order of the Nation, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, due to a workload. Also, the ninth question under number 602/14-3-2017 of MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the permits of deputy teachers, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou, due to a workload. At the same time, the tenth question under number 572/7-3-2017 of the Presidential Decree on the recognition of the professional rights of graduates of TEI will not be discussed as a result of the blockade of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr Konstantinos Gavroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, due to a workload. Finally, the third question under number 708/10-4-2017 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEGROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, with a view to the adoption of the results of the 2014 Declaration on the protected persons of Law 2643/98, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Theanos Fotou, due to a workload. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-24-S1-commons.u110	With the consent of the House at 19.22' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 25 April 2017 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
