ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda of the legislative work, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Thursday 21 September 2017 to the House. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. O by No 1492/18-9-2017 a topical question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chrysula Katsavra - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the effects on cotton from the reduction of residue limits of the active substance "mepiquat chloride". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1494/18-9-2017 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the planning of recruitment of all specialities in municipalities and the delays in updating the census. 3. Question No 1508/19-9-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Increase the funding of the measure "The Installation of Young Farmers" in order not to leave any young person seeking to deal with agricultural production, fair examination of objections". 4. The 1498/18-9-2017 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafili to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Inadmissible situation in the Panhellenic Gymnastic Association". B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1493/18-9-2017 topical question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Completion of work for the formation and fence of an expropriated area at Chios airport and extension of the Christos road". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 1495/18-9-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens, Neo Democrat Georgios Koumoutsakou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The Greek Government's stand against Macedonia's continuing intransigence". 3. The question by No 1507/19-9-2017 that was asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKMKKKKKKKKKKKKMKKKKKKKKKMKMKMKKKKKKKKK ofakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakak 4. The Question No 1509/19-9-2017 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the immediate compensation for earthquakes and damages in Lesvos. 5. The Question No 1503/19-9-2017 by the Independent Member of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on the issue of debts of the Municipal Waste Water Corporation for Western Achaia to PPC. 6. The 1455/11-9-2017 topical question by Independent MEP II Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Incomplete delivery of the individual political opinions of the Panagouli family and the removal of documents". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Elias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The young farmers of Elias are entitled, due to their exclusion from Measure 6.1 "Installation of young farmers" of the 2014-20 Rural Development Programme (PAA). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question referred for a preliminary ruling under No 5958/576/30-5-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: ‘Are they sought or not alternatives to avoid a new reduction in pension expenditure with the latter, L.4472/2017?’ Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "European mandate for research in criminal matters - Harmonisation of legislation with Directive 2014/41/EU and other provisions". Mr Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I shall deal with the amendments basically, Mr President, but before I make the necessary comments, I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about the recent promotions in the leadership of the Ice Bay. The first question is this, Minister: why, while the previous election of President of the Ice Bay took place before the end of the Ice Bay's outgoing leadership, that is, since June, have you been delaying three months? Of course, I understand the logic that existed at the very night when the election was held, on the eve of a referendum, because, as you know, the President of the Ice Bay will be chaired by the Supreme Special Court to judge the results and the validity of the referendum. Irrespective of that, that's what's been through now. The problem is because this has been delayed, because there are things we do not feel that the promotions are related to some outstanding cases in the Areo ice, which are not your concern, as far as we hear, but others are concerned, and that is why this delay has been made. Apart from that, I would like to point out a preamble and explain that the President-elect, Mr Peppas, is one of all worthy judges. I happened to have him in my department when I was president and I have excellent impressions. I believe he will be a good president and restore the authority of our Supreme Court. The same is true for Vice-Presidents, and the choices are good. We can't say the opposite. The problem, however, is why oldest judges, equally competent, were not proposed. We did not have the phenomenon, ladies and gentlemen, virtue perfectly with all morality and science, it was proposed by the Minister for President of the Ice Bay, and it was not, in the end, a Vice-President. To be clear, I am referring to the Areopagite Joseph Tsalanides. You propose him to President of the Ice Bay, and eventually you don't even make him a vice president. Isn't there a contradiction in that? Then he becomes Vice-President of the Ice Authority with very few votes taken at the Conference of Presidents and with twice and three times the votes taken by other Areopagites, they were not vice-presidents. That is why I am saying and have always argued that this system of the interim procedure with the Conference of Presidents is not right. Firstly, it offends Parliament itself, because its recommendations are despised. People become people who had not been proposed and - vice versa - proposed are not and are certainly offended by the judges themselves by the procedure followed. That is why we have said that with the Revision of the Constitution it is time to cut off this "capital cord" of administration - government and justice, because the institutions are being strengthened and the prestige of justice is being strengthened. Now, as far as the amendments are concerned, the first amendment is 1257 with a special number of 105, which concerns the decongestion of prisons. We believe that this amendment, as you can see, Minister, cannot be voted on for the following reasons: Firstly, the amendment also applies to those who have been sentenced over twenty years. We had passed a similar provision on the decongestion of prisons on stricter terms, up to ten years in prison, and exempted a series of offences, which had to do with their great social deception. You still keep twenty years. Secondly, the amendment also concerns convicted persons, as we have said, over 10 years of age, but also crimes which are of great social value. You make an effort to remove some of the offences by correcting the previous law, which had been passed on to your government, but you are actually undoing that. Apart from the fact that you do not exclude Articles 187 and 187a for criminal organisations and terrorist acts, you are nonetheless annulled by paragraph 7. I'd like to know if your consultants saw that. Look at that, please. It is clear that paragraph 7 essentially absolves paragraph 4 that you are putting the exceptions. Paragraph 4 shall introduce exemptions from the application of the provisions of paragraphs 1-3, but for most of them the exemption is waived by paragraph 7. Indeed, the imposition of restrictive conditions and of electronic surveillance, from a potential wording that was, now becomes optional. Look at it and, if necessary, make clarifications. Therefore, most of the exceptions referred to in paragraph 3 become obsolete and what remains only? The grabbing of minors, rape, child robbery, the abuse of minors in embezzlement, imprisonment against a fee, the robbery and the robbery after death. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you must leave me because I will need two minutes more, like your colleagues, the other Presidents, they have done for other colleagues. We could perhaps discuss, not agree, a provision whereby the convicted and over twenty years, in the context of decongestion of prisons, are fired after a half of the sentence and a real creation of one/3 of the sentence, namely not by a beneficial calculation, but by compulsory restrictive conditions. Now, that is why this provision cannot be passed, because our view - which we have put forward on your predecessor, when he brought this provision - is that all potential criminals are convinced that someday they will be fired much earlier than the procedures laid down in Article 105 of the Criminal Code, to which you referred yesterday. The conditional dismissal, of course, has existed since the Criminal Code and criminal law in our country, but the conditions are those which characterise a proper piece of legislation and now this piece of legislation has become too diligent for criminals. Now, with regard to what you said yesterday, Minister, and you attacked us that we supposedly did nothing about prisons and the work you did is much better for prisons and we do not have Greek convictions on your day. Listen: I will talk about the work done on the previous governments. I will also refer to my term of office, but I am obliged to say that Mr Miltiades Papaioannou, my predecessor, Minister of Justice and Mr Rupakiotis, with Mr Karagunis, but also Mr Scandamis - we have had a very good lead in the state's anti-crime policy - we have done huge work. I will give you some information, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, because I have to contradict what you have said. For the first time, we create a healing unit in Korydallos prisons in December 2014, an OkANA unit in St Stephanos prisons in September 2014. We are inaugurating the prisons of Agia Chania and Nikiforos Dramas in December 2012. Nikiforos Dramas prisons are over, and you haven't worked them yet. For the first time, we introduced for the first time a prison trauma register in May 2012. We strengthened primary and secondary schools in all the prisons we had minors, with the result that our students, who were in juvenile prisons, spend the two years in 2013 and 2014 in the higher education institutions and the TEIs. We first founded a juvenile school in Corinth. We founded - you spoke yesterday about the IEK - the first IEK and they started...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Athanasios, it's over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u4	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u5	You covered the revision of the constitution, you covered it all. Put it down now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u6	I'll talk about two decisions now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] You said you didn't have convictions. I can inform you, then, that I am not one of those who will blame the government for confronting the prisons, because we have nowadays been convicted and many even. We gathered convictions from 2010 to 2015, which if we didn't pay the fines we were put in, we would have built a prison. I don't blame the government for not making prisons from one day to the next. To God! But don't come and say we've been convicted and you don't. So I inform you that we have 12 convictions in 2015 for inhumane treatment in violation of 'Les tres heures...'. Some of them...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Athanasios, please, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, it is so serious that I think they will help the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u9	I didn't close the time, nor do you start over! Time's up!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u10	Some of them are decisions of 2016, but they also concerned 2014 and 2015 issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u11	Please, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u12	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u13	Please do not ignore the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u14	No, that's what people have to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u15	Can people hear them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u16	Recently, on your day 2017, the Dimitrios Labakis case was convicted of violating the contract. The case of Boru Beru was convicted in 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u17	You're gonna make me turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u18	There are more decisions. I am presenting them to you, as is the brief presentation of all the anti-crime policy by our government on decongestion of prisons and improvement of conditions. It's a project that doesn't compare to yours. Today, it has not even been one third of what happened in the two years I have been Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One last thing I will say about the amendment to the Court of Auditors. Have you, Minister, been asked by the Court of Auditors to bring this amendment to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u19	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u20	Do you have one of those writings?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u21	In consultation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u22	Are we going to have a dialogue now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u23	You are, however, abrogating, Minister, the trial.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u24	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u25	The model trial is a conquest of legal culture and you should see it very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Athanasios, are you showing this respect to the Chair? I hope this didn't happen long ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, you are right. I'm sorry. Please see the escalation issues, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u28	Ilhan Ahmet has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, I would like to talk about the amendment that has been withdrawn. It would have been a good thing, of course, if we were here yesterday, but today I think I have a few things to say to you. First of all, we voted in favour of the substance of the amendment to the logic of defending human and minority rights and of the self-evident need to align our country with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. I am proud, ladies and gentlemen, that in my political life I have fought real battles for human and minority rights, but I am not affected by the threats of extremist and disillusional persons who are every time against us. I would like to remind you that in this Chamber, with initiatives in particular of the Democratic Incorporation, a number of decisive steps were taken at the level of minority and human rights in Thrace, but also later by the Government of Karamanlis, such as the fall of the Aegean Bar in 1995, the introduction of a quota of 0.5% for the entry into universities of the minority and the abolition of Article 19 of the Code of Greek Nationality, but also measures, which took place in the 2000s, from all sides of the House. I am pleased that from this step yesterday, the Minister for Justice, in other words, admitted the positive position of the Democratic Association on the substance of this amendment. But, Minister, yesterday you made two major political points, two large, in my opinion, unfortunate statements. One was that you took the risk of bringing an amendment, believing that there was a risk of being voted down, and today we would have been humiliated in the European Union, and the Greek Parliament would have voted against an amendment, which was about fundamental rights, and indeed about adapting us to the European Court of Human Rights. That'd be a big prick. You took the risk of being voted against at the time that you had not secured the declared by the ANELs. We know the positions of the ANELs, we respect them, but they are the ones who are. Also, Golden Dawn MPs are nationalists. So you made a very big mistake and took a very big risk, because in the end the cost would be for our country. A second, most important and worst mistake you have made is what you said, Minister, in your speech, when withdrawing the amendment: "The proposed provision entitles the Court of Human Rights to review its case by the criminal courts, which will dominately decide and do not have to harmonise their ruling with that of the European Court of Justice." Do you want to say, Mr Minister, that you are finally bringing an amendment to the House in the form of a pretext, which will cast an ash in the eyes of the European institutions, allegedly in line with the rulings of the Greek legal order of the European Court of Justice, while in fact only the possibility of reintroducing to Greek justice, without any guarantee that this time its judgments will be brought into line with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights? What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u30	I mentioned what the amendment says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u31	You said it clearly. I read your statement. Today it's also on the websites. You said yesterday to the House: 'But why are you worried?' That is not going to apply anyway. In other words, you closed your eyes to the ANLLs, to your partners, and you said "the next time I bring it, in ten days..."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u32	I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u33	Don't shout. In fact, this is not the case for the national judge to apply it. I would like to say two things to you, Mr Minister. First of all, what is the purpose of the ECHR? It is to ensure the collective guarantee of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual. This objective, of course, could not be achieved if the forty-seven Member States were completely free in interpreting the ECHR. On the other hand, the commitment of the national authorities by the court's interpretative solutions contributes substantially to a high level of protection of human rights. Is there a real retrievable commitment by the ECHR's decisions? If a State delivers a provision of the contract, it may not challenge that final decision by any means of appeal. It must respect the essential reciprocity it produces. Where does that come from? By virtue of Article 46(1) of the ECHR Convention. You know that this paragraph is triggered in case the court finds an infringement of a certain right. The defendant, the convicted State may no longer claim that its contribution is in accordance with the contract. And yet, if there were no such amendment, Minister? Please say that you have not brought it and that this decision has been pending for fifteen to twenty years. We're a democratic country. Greece has a national arsenal of more than enough, which protects all rights and is a state that respects minorities and refugees. Here, regardless of the arguments, which have a separate position, by the law of international conventions, the systematic interpretation of Articles 41 and 46(1) of the ECHR requires that all the competent State authorities be directly bound by the judgments of the court, whereas Article 41, of course, lays down the obligation to eliminate the consequences of the infringement under its supervision, according to domestic law as possible and is thus recognised as an obstacle to a restituto integrum. Lawyers know that. This does not mean, however, that the internal organs are not obliged to follow the judgements of the court. Because Article 41 does not stipulate anything for the immediate decision-making, on the contrary, it is only an excellent provision restricting the obligation to redress. Furthermore, Article 41 of the Convention would create reasonable and systematic confusion if the obligation to rectify and comply was not addressed to the competent internal bodies of the Member States. In other words, Minister, it would be impossible to address the requirement of Article 46(1) of the ECHR exclusively to the legislative bodies, as the restoration of the suffering with a commitment of law is known to all legal classes. Finally, when you bring the next law, please, Minister, take all this into account. Such unfortunate statements in the European Union within the national Parliament of the type 'this will not be binding, don't worry, don't worry, this case will be dragged down another ten-15 years'...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u34	Did I say such things?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u35	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u36	Did I say he'd be dragging himself for ten years?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u37	Indirectly but clearly, that is what you meant, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u38	I say what the amendment says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u39	Didn't you say that? I can read you exactly what you said: 'The order that you'll make up your mind...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u40	What are you reading? The layout says...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u41	...and do not have to harmonise their decision.’ What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u42	It's the arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u43	I present in the minutes a study of the Group "Level Adviser" to read it out by your advisers, entitled "The commitment of the national judge from the precedent and precedented decisions of the HRC". Read it and see whether or not the ECHR decisions are mandatory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u44	Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in support of what my previous colleague Mr Athanasios said, I, too, wish good success in the work of the newly chosen President of the Ice Bay, and I would remind you that our criticism did not focus on the person but on the process, with the three-month delay, when the position of President of the Ice Bay was vacant at the end of June and, of course, with the extensive failure of many judges who have been acquainted with universal recognition by this House. After the incitement to dive in the Argosaronian, we also experienced great deep dives in the yearbook. There, then, was our criticism. As regards the draft law, yesterday's debate focused on the controversial amendments tabled by the Minister and not on the incorporation of the European directive into our national law, which we all agree with. I would therefore also focus on these amendments, since the amendment on the decongestion of the penitentiary shops had been announced by the Minister with quite a celebratory tone, I would say, in his intention of tabling themselves in the committee, and finally a few hours before the debate in plenary. While the other amendment to Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure came, I would say, in quite a narrow way and was correctly withdrawn, when it was found that there are serious issues on the one hand, as well as doing so with a national dimension, and on the other hand, the government partner does not vote. In any case, we do not have to hide behind our fingers - for the government's parliamentary defeat. I would like to say here that the negative position of the New Democracy on the amendment is a position of substantial rejection. It is not a short-term, regular parliamentary manoeuvre depending on the attitude of ANELs. I'll explain it below. At the same time, I am curious to see what happens when this amendment comes back to the House, probably in another bill of the Ministry of Justice, where I dare say that I appreciate that there will be a question of the consistency of the government majority, not only in terms of the amendment that was retabled at the time, but also in terms of the substance of this bill. But we saw it. I come to the amendment on the decongestion of prisons, the extension of the Paradise Law. Here, obviously, there is a great difference between us in the approach to the whole issue. For you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it seems that the issue of the decongestion of the penitentiary shops in this respect is more important than the question of punishing the perpetrator for the crime he has committed. When approaching the issue of imprisonment in prison about with remorse of conscience for the misfortune who enter, you in fact despise the concept of punishment as a punishment, as a result of the outcome, of the return of reproach to the perpetrator or indulgence of society against his criminal behavior. And you escape from humanitarian searches for the allegedly relief of people who have insulted violent social goods and social order through their criminal action, and are, of course, condemned to deprivation of their personal freedom, this great honour. And that's the basic concept of punishment. According to the Professor and colleague Mr. Paraskevilos - he is not here, but I must mention a village from the book that he wrote together with Professor Lampros Margaritis 'Penology' - the penalty is the regulated reaction of organised society. The regulated nature of the sentence is three levels: the first is that its abstract threat is the work of the legislator, its enforcement is the work of the criminal judge and its performance by the administration. Here's the distortion. Here, by this law, you are turning the penalty into a lawmaker's work. You bring a law and you tell the convicted and imprisoned: You may now have fifteen years in prison, this is the sentence imposed on you by the criminal judge, but you will be out in five in order to dismantle the penitentiary. I mean, there goes the regulated character of the sentence. Above all, the issue of crowding. It is an ideological approach and attitude, expressed in other ways, when, let us say, you come and say, Minister, that in some penitentiary shops, the electronic lock system is not working, but here you are going to do IK in prison. And then the special issues begin. Paragraph 4 of the amendment provides for exemptions from the favourable provisions of the current condition of dismissal, i.e. stricter regulation, perpetrators of detainees for sixteen criminal offences. You are omissioning, of course, the strictness of the perpetrators of the terrorist offence, participation in criminal organization, drug dealers, etc. But you then come to paragraph 7 and you are actually calling for strict discharge for the ten of the sixteen crimes on which you have previously legislated in Article 4, by simply introducing restrictive conditions for the dismissal of the dismissals. I mean, you get exceptions to the exception. This may be another victory for the rightholders of the government majority, of SYRIZA in particular, but it is certainly a defeat for a comprehensive approach to our anti-crime policy. And I come to the amendment withdrawn by the Minister of State under No 1247/99 concerning the amendment of Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure, since it is to be retabled, as he said yesterday. I have often raised our objections to the fragmentation of articles in the Code of Civil Procedure, despite the fact that its overall amendment is a prerequisite and despite the fact that the Ministry's Legislative Committee has been set up in this respect. Here, you know, whenever one, two, three articles appear here and there, the Code, we will conclude that there is a political settlement behind it. We had the amendments to the Ahchioglu bill, where the request for payment for due wages was introduced, in order to demonstrate the government's gratuitous profile, and now we have it. But this is more complicated and your intervention is much more precarious. You will amend Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure under procedural law, which allows for the possibility of requesting the revocation and reform of a final judgment of voluntary jurisdiction and after the adoption of a final judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and, in fact, - here, this is the issue - with a very photographic transitional provision, which reveals, by giving retroactive effect to a provision of law, without sufficient justification, as should be done your real intentions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little tolerance, Mr President, will come to an end. And I'm falling back in love with you. It is this amendment of Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure directly linked to the question of the recognition of unions under the name "Turkish Union of Xanthi" etc.Huh? You said it wasn't. But when you say that there is a possibility of identifying this body here, that is, a window of opportunity to reopen it, that is exactly what you mean. So tell us, gladly, so that we know. Is there any intention of resolving this issue in breach of the Treaty of Lausanne, which is an important text of international law and therefore of superlegislative force, and is it talking about the existence of a religious rather than a national minority in Greece? You don't know, what exactly is going on in Thrace? In any case, who exercises the national policy on bilateral relations between Greece and Turkey, the SYRIZA's Committee on Rights, with their consistent position as expressed in 2013, to recognise the Association under the name ‘Turkish Association’ here tomorrow, possibly ‘Turkish Union’, goes to the other ‘Turkish Group’ in the prefecture throughout Thrace, or is it a risky nationalist delirium the assessment that these can arise tomorrow if this opportunity window opens here? Finally, I would also like to give you a way out in order to deal with this issue as you must with the difficult situation with you and the government. Article 11 of the resolution and incorporation of a directive on the European Research Command provide grounds for non-recognition or enforcement. One of them provides for non-recognition or execution if, in this case, the implementation of the European Research Command would be detrimental to national security interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u46	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u47	I shall conclude with that, Mr President, which I think is important. I therefore propose that you add the corresponding provisions to the main provision of Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure, or to the transitional provision, in a proportionate manner. You can say, in other words, that in any case, a request for revocation or reform is not allowed, when there are essential interests in national security that relate to international conditions of super-legislative power. I think that this is the way out unless you do not think that national security issues are being dealt with in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u48	Mr Lazarides, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I will start from the position of my previous colleague from the Democratic Incorporation, from PASOK, who made comments and criticisms to the Minister for the amendment that he withdrew. If someone were to resign, Mr. PASOK - I address you to you - it is your party, which said that it agrees with this amendment, but it does not vote on it. What does that mean? It means you disagree with your party. Why didn't you make a position, a criticism of your party's behavior here? Your party has been exposed. Of course, you have the right to answer and you will. What has been done confirms both parties' behaviour, as you were partners in the past. It confirms what the Minister said yesterday when he spoke of political schizophrenia. What is it to say that I agree with something, but I do not vote for it? Is this a divided personality? We said we disagree. We asked the Minister to think about it, to withdraw it. In other words, 'I disagree with something and I do not vote for it'. You say 'I agree with something, but I do not vote for it'. Where's the inconsistencies between these two? It is very easy to draw conclusions, apart from the fact that it is not possible for the citizen to hear and see such behaviour from both parties, to ever feel safe. I mean, you agree with something, you think it's right, but you're not voting on it. We think that something is wrong and we do not vote on it. We believe that it is right, that we support it and of course vote on it. Where's the inconsistencies? The conclusions come out on their own. We - we have said it many times - with SYRIZA we have ideological differences, but we have a sacred duty. And that's where we got hand-handed, so that we can pull forward and rebuild the country. We are trying to correct and close these wounds caused by your own coup d'état. They said yesterday that the New Democracy and the PASOK had to - he says - find them from outside and then come here. In other words, here I would like to say that the privilege of dark halls and grey corridors belongs to other parties, not to us. We're here to talk about it. We have nothing to hide. We follow democratic procedures. Others, despite their disagreements about ideology, found them in the past. Why did they find them? They found them to cover up. We don't have anything to cover up. We reveal today what they were trying to cover up. And they had a lot to cover up. That is why they know from dark chambers, secret meetings and "after we agree to come out". They had to hide the things that slowly come out. The scandals with the CEDEFOP, with Henry Dynan, with "NOVARTIS", are coming out with the arrows that were charged to them four times as much as "AGRICULT". I had spoken here the other day about the 'AFRIC'. In fact, the two parties have a court in October. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection welcomes the Commission's proposal for a directive on the Also, there are scandals for the Post Bank, the Stock Exchange, the structured bonds, the swaps, the distortion of data on entry into EMU, the equipment, the PSI, the maritime loans. One party owes 240 million and the other party owes 220 million, a total of half a billion. The seaships of the Midarchs who supported them. All this had to be covered. That's why they found them. And that's why they agreed on everything. That is why we were coming to the votes and saw 'yes' in everything. A joke came out with 'yes' to everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u50	The Ministerial Council held a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Comrade, I'll tell you something. You know I come from New Democracy. I could never imagine sitting at the same table as the PASOK, with the Koskotta PASOK, to get it back to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u52	With SYRIZA, don't you have a problem? Did PASOK ruin you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u53	Are you talking about SYRIZA? Listen to me. All these old PASOK strains, which are involved in everything I said, are inside PASOK. None of them left. None of them left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u54	Where is the PASOK now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u55	PASOK is with you. You found them. It has been mutated, as you have changed, into a neoliberal party. There are two neoliberal parties in today's Parliament, New Democracy and PASOK, unfortunately. Here I would like to make a comment on the amendment with a general number of 1246 and a specific number of 98, which concerns the extension. The Minister's not here. Clearly we are positive, because this extension must be granted. But I also wanted to say this here. I fear that another extension will be needed here, because, unfortunately, while the bill that we had passed some time ago here actually gives solutions, it is a bill positive, the officials who are called upon to implement this bill are stuck in the past. It is what I said and when the bill had come here, that forest legislation must sometime change. It is the forest legislation that the two parties who had previously ruled to change it did not dare. It is an outdated, dazzling and complex forestry legislation, which enables officials from the forests to interpret as they want the various provisions. You see, like, we've got a lot of mistakes on the forest maps. They are based on aerial photographs of 1945 and characterize land as forests or fields as forests, without taking into account the acts of the settlement management of 1950, 1955, 1960, 1965, etc. Based on these aerial photographs, they put citizens under opposition. In other words, they harm citizens at costs, running in offices to substantiate their objections. With a clipboard calculation I have made, for an objection we can reach 1,500 euros, i.e. paradoxes are around 800 euros, plus the costs of the engineer, a total of 1,500 euros. And most of these employees don't recognize what we said about obvious errors. Since reafforestations are not recognized, it is clear that there are obvious errors and yet they do not recognize them. I would like the Minister to take note of this here - and I would like us to look again at a number of issues. You see, for example, that they characterize forested fields as some areas where this designation should not be entered. What we had said here before, when we were discussing the bill, is that this term 'floated field' does not exist as a legal term in any country in the world. Or a field is something or a forest. It can't be a field and a forest. That's what complicates things even more. Many employees come and tell farmers "all right, don't worry. It may seem here that he's a forested field, but you'll pay and settle," that is, he'll buy his field again. It's unfair, and we need to sit down and talk about it and see it again. Because I have the impression that from the way these services operate - and they are specific services, I am talking about the Polygyros Forestry, I am talking about Thessaloniki and something similar is going to happen elsewhere - we will have to see them again, because I am sure we will need to re-expansion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. I would like to reply to what my colleague asked me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u58	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u59	My colleague has asked me what my position is, and if there is any difference between my party, the Democratic Alliance. Mr President, not only do I support and I fully agree with the position of the Democratic Assent, which was the best position, but I have to point out the following: When we voted on the mosque in Athens, who voted and thanks to our vote, the Democratic Assent, passed the law? When we voted for the symbiosis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Ahmet, I think you covered the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u61	No, it's not possible. When we voted on gender coexistence, who voted? But we said that, from now on, political homicide has an end. It cannot, that is, when there is no evidence, come the government and bring in a bill and ask for support on these issues. But we - you said so, Mr Minister, your Minister said so - the Democratic Reconciliation on the substance of the matter said 'yes'. The New Democracy didn't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u62	Is that what I told you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u63	The decision of the Democratic Association to say 'no', but if you vote and you say 'yes', it is clear. She's healthy and she's honest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u64	It's clear what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u65	From there, don't try in here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u66	You're not making a second speech. You have been placed on staff. You're clear. We will close the debate with the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u67	How do we close, Mr President? It's the discourses of the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u68	Nobody asked. Do you want a dentext, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u69	Sure. We all do. Mr Javarras, the parliamentarians and the rapporteurs have the seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u70	We have not, Mr President, been placed on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u71	Good. Even though I've seen the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u72	You said that we would be placed on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u73	You know, I saw the time of your speech and I saw that you've exceeded time. But it's all right, there's time. Come on, Mr. Giuleka.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u74	In a firm sense, it is not time-saving.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u75	Are they not offsetting? Good. Mr. Javarras wants to talk first?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u76	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u77	Come on, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, yesterday you spoke to us on a very heavy subject which, without any rotation, I can tell you that they are insults which are not common to this House's Step. You've actually told us that we're an asshole and that we're ridiculous people, because we're being ridiculous. So I will tell you the following: each one of them presents through his words is his level, his education and his respect for his opponent. But, personally - at least with regard to my position yesterday - I do not allow you to describe with these words the very strong and serious concern I have put forward to you. For some legal approaches have been heard earlier on the issues relating to judicial review of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, on the obligation to comply with the Council of Europe's decisions. I told you yesterday - and I will bring her back to the Minutes - that a specific decision was taken in July and I tell you again. It is the decision ‘Moreira Ferreira’ against Portugal No 2, because it is a second decision adopted following a new appeal by this Portuguese citizen against its State to the European Court of Human Rights, for it considered that it was an infringement of Article 6(1) of the ECHR that it did not comply with restituto integrum, as it has already been heard, Portugal in a judgment of the Court of Human Rights which it considered in its case that Article 6(1) had actually been infringed. That is where the court says that there is no obligation for the Member States to have self-conformity, but only because they are free and independent, the obligation to comply overall in the context of the free assessment of the specific circumstances, by adapting to the nature of each case. Here, then, in all these cases, I proposed that you bring this case to the Special Permanent Committee set up in Parliament to monitor the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and to make proposals to both Parliament and the Government on how these matters can be resolved. And I ask you: what you're listening to is ridiculous things or shitholes? Because if you really tell me that this particular argument has to do with those designations, then you're being exposed and not just exposed, just because I respect you, I don't want to tell you that you're being coloured by those words you're using against me. But there is another issue, which I think the government has resolved. I have already heard Mr Lazaridis coming here to tell us that he was a New Democracy and New Democracy became neoliberal, and now he is comfortable working with SYRIZA because he makes him feel that through this cooperation he is implementing the patriotic centre-sensitive character that this party has, by coming here and telling us what we have heard before. I will tell you this: we have said it again. In order to make sense for any governmental cooperation between two parties, at the level of the legislative initiative, a draft law should at least be introduced and proposed to Parliament to fulfil this requirement. Because otherwise it is no longer a draft law, it is a draft law and must at least be judged by the Rules of Procedure of the House on different criteria. So here, we should be serious and responsible. Our views, which are relevant and certainly colour the attitude we have and respect for the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, are consistent. I personally am a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Council of Europe and keep track of the case law. But I cannot, Minister, take the view that with regard to a huge issue which concerns everyone in this area, it should be without any processing, without any debate bringing it up with an amendment at the very last moment by breaking and bypassing the right parliamentary procedure. Is that a hamburger too? Is that a laughing matter? At last there's a limit! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u79	And we're about time respect, Mr. Javarra. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u80	I would like the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u81	The indictment of any name does not establish any personal matter at all times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u82	I have an answer. It was mentioned earlier whether we feel comfortable as centreright co-operating with SYRIZA or not. Clearly we feel comfortable as right-wing co-workers because neither of us nor SYRIZA can be accused of ever putting the finger on the vase with honey, unlike the previous co-government. We are now seeing the committees of inquiry constantly emerging new findings. I therefore think that the answer has been given. Here Mr Javarras and the others should say whether they feel comfortable as neoliberals co-operating with PASOK, the party which has always been synonymous with corruption and interlocutory. They have to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. Mr. Saridis, if I'm not cheating, did you ask why? Come on, if you want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have to put myself in my dentistry first of all in the other ministerial amendments that have found the last minute and have entered this bill. Then I will also insist on a small comment on the amendment that was withdrawn from the Minister. I shall therefore begin with the two amendments tabled by the Ministry of Health. It is Amendment 1253 on meeting the payroll needs and the operating costs of the EMS and Amendment 1255 on the single discount mechanism, the great rebate. We obviously understand the need for the government to pay people on time and understand that the mechanism of the rebate needs corrections. We cannot, however, continue to support legislative blocks, extraordinary corrections and extensions. At some point we need to change the way in which we legislate in this country. It's been two years with that government. We will therefore vote'residences' in both amendments of the Ministry of Health. With regard to Amendment No 1254 of the Ministry of Justice under the heading 'Amendment of Article 32 of the Code of Law on the Court of Auditors', we consider that it has not been adequately documented or examined on time and under the procedures provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We cannot rely on such serious issues, the issues that concern the institutions of justice when they are trying in a clipboard way in our view as they are with amendments that have not been sufficiently discussed. We will be voting against this amendment. With regard to Amendment No 1257 on exceptional measures for the decongestion of detention stores, that is to say the extension of the Law of Friday, we believed and expected that we would have found a more serious solution than simply opening doors to the important problem, really very important problem - the decongestion of the Greek prisons a year after Mr Friday's law. After almost three years with this government, no sustainable solution has been found and so Greek society will continue to fight for what kind of criminals will be on the streets this year with the approval of Parliament. We won't support you, gentlemen of the government. The responsibility for this amendment will only be yours. We will vote against it. Finally, I would like to make a comment on the parliamentary amendment to your SYRIZA colleagues, Minister. It was supported by the Minister, Mr. Paulakis, with his position. I was surprised that the Minister of Justice accepted it. If we believe this amendment so much, why did the Minister not bring it and have to come through the Members? Is there a risk with this amendment that you will dismantle the presidencies? We're asking, is there such a risk? Do you thus define temporary administrations? Are there people who can resign, possibly, from the presiding office and be replaced by others? If so, then we will be allowed, Minister, to assume that you are trying to put your own people with back procedures in critical posts. We cannot of course agree to it either and we will vote against it. Now, you will allow me the time left for me to comment on the amendment that you have withdrawn. I expected to listen with great interest and with great attention, Minister, your position on the issue, in our view, of nationally harmful Amendment 1247. I was expecting to hear those words that one might say when one has made a mistake and has the courage to recognize it. Surprise, obviously, has caused us this excuse you raised to withdraw Amendment No 1247 that, because a meeting has been postponed somewhere in Europe, Greece has gained time and so has another week or ten days to better understand the content of the amendment. At the same time, you have informed us that you will bring this amendment back to the next bill of the Ministry of Justice. As incomprehensible as this attitude is, it is also so incomprehensible that your conscious choice of not making any reference yesterday from the Step of the House to the Association of Centres and what we asked you to answer, in yesterday's introduction from this Step. You referred to fascist and nazi deliriums, to respond to the Golden Dawn, you threw off the New Democracy's position as a schizophrenic, because while it has previously voted for such provisions, you decided to oppose it without substance, and you may also be right - you have accused the PASOK of agreeing with the content of the amendment - but only to create problems in the government coalition - and you are probably right to that - you have given congratulations to Potami, which did not clear up his attitude by saying that he would expect to see how the debate would evolve to decide on his attitude, but for what we, for the Union of Centrals, did not say a word. Are we invisible, Minister? We're not invisible. Don't you see us? Don't you hear us? Can't anyone hear us? We are talking, speaking, and there is no mention of the position of the Centro Association ever within this House. So you may have chosen to pretend that you are not listening, but I assure you that the Greeks are listening, and indeed very well. So I'm going to repeat two things like I said yesterday to hear from our fellow citizens: The very next day that you tabled this amendment to the committees I personally informed the Government, in a responsible and confidential manner, of the possible ways in which this amendment could be used by the Turkish consulate, whose action I hope you will know. Six whole days before someone leaked the content of the amendment to journalists, I had started to inform all those responsible that they had to assume their responsibilities and suggest that the amendment should be withdrawn. Finally, everyone in this Chamber knows how dangerous this amendment is, but no one has stood up to the circumstances. The reason why the amendment had to be withdrawn was not explained by anyone. Many people have either directly stated that they support it, such as the PASOK, or that they see it positive but they ask for explanations, such as the Potami. I did not understand whether the New Democracy is voting against to cause a problem for the government or whether it recognises this mistake. And I close my position in response to what Mr Ahmet said from PASOK. There are no ethnic minorities in Greece. There is no Turkish minority in Thrace. Toys with Thrace are too dangerous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, may I table the decision that I invoke?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u87	You're welcome. Put it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u88	At this point, I would like to state on the Minutes the 'Moreira Ferreira 2' decision which I had invoked to see both the Minister and the colleagues who wish to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I would like to say that yesterday the Greek people saw that the Golden Dawn, the movement of Greek nationalists, had a fascinating victory here in Parliament with its interventions for the anti-national, undermining amendment that legalised the 'Turkeys'. So I want to tell the Greek people that there is hope. The presence of Greek nationalists inside and outside the Parliament can produce work in the positive direction. The positive direction, Mr Minister, is not to withdraw the amendment with too many insults for our movement, which you are described as and which I oppose. The point is to withdraw you very soon from the political life of the country, as well as your partners, the 'writings' of the New Democracy, who have spoken of this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u91	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u92	Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u93	In quotes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u94	Please! This word fits the gentleman and not the Members of the New Democracy. It does not suit any MEP from the Greek Parliament, except those who sit on the corner.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u95	In the field of introductorys. I did. Let the gentleman calm down. Tell him to get down... Let the gentleman calm down. Don't interrupt me. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u96	Please withdraw the designation. It's not written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u97	Good. I would therefore like to say that these gentlemen denounced the amendment, not for national reasons, as the Golden Dawn did, but clearly for opposition on a general basis. And Mr Vorides and the others said: 'When you bring bills that you are not sure about the government majority, we will vote against them.' It's a generality. They have not entered the essence of the amendment, as the Golden Dawn, the movement of Greek nationalists, has been denounced for days. We'll be here as much as opposition patriots of the bourgeois Right call. We will be here no matter how much the Bolsheviks of SYRIZA want to hurt their homeland, religion and family. We will be here with the right banner of national resistance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Gülekas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u99	Let SYRIZA's colleague speak first because we are rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u100	Okay. Mr Papaleyou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by addressing my colleagues from the opposition of the New Democracy and PASOK. From your position it seems that you do not understand the functioning of the co-operation governments. The parties that make up the SYRIZA - ANEL government have different ideological origins even different placements, different approaches to some issues. However, after the Memorandum of Understanding of the Governments 2010-2014 they have agreed on two key positions that are consistently serving. On the one hand, they should drive the country out of memorials and promote its socially just productive reconstruction and, on the other, strike the monster of interlocutory and corruption, which has troubled the country for a long time. They rule on them. Secondly, it seems that the New Democracy and the PASOK are heterogeneously defined by the attitude of ANELs to specific government initiatives. In fact, their position, I would say, reminds me of a reaction from young children in a child's game. They agree - or do not clarify whether they agree - they do not take a position - on some issues - but do not vote on 'bad and nothing' and the government falls to cause a problem with the government. You're vain, gentlemen! The government will get rid of its mandate and you - I address the New Democracy colleagues - will ask for elections and then for the next elections that you will miss. This is another position of inconsistency and a movement of embarrassment or political schizophrenia, as it has been said, since wanting to appear opposition saves and well you do not vote for regulations with which you agree or for which you do not have a position. Thirdly, I am going to refer to the public administration and the relevant amendment incorporated as an article in this draft law. The situation in public administration, bureaucracy, the client state is the result of political decades. Therefore, the objections to the assessment are objections to those who make them. The argument put forward by the New Democracy and PASOK, that we do not, from the outset and by definition, adopt the evaluation, is untrue. We do not adopt the irrational logic of the evaluation of the neoliberal Mitsotakis policy in which a percentage of rated officials has a negative performance and must be made redundant. We are in favour of the evaluation, which is also a precondition for the social accountability of the public administration to the public on the basis of objective, meritful, participatory and always aimed at upgrading public services to serve the citizen rather than punishing the public service. With regard to the amendment to decongestion of prisons: its sole purpose is to decongested prisons, not to establish and establish rights for prisoners. On the other hand, the same practice had been followed by your own governments in the past, gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, even though this has not been done in your days in an effective way and that is because you are based on another logic. The high penalties imposed by the Greek Penal Code and the criminal laws have made Greek prisons of crime. In recent years and due to decongestion, conditions have improved and are recognised by everyone. With this amendment, with the extension of the Paradise Act and the extension of some exceptions from the favorable regulations concerning serious crimes, it is certain that this improvement will continue. At the same time, the government is not confined to decongestion, it continues its anti-crime policy which is to improve prison conditions, create human conditions in them, but also in social reintegration policies. That is how crime is fought and security in society is guaranteed. All the others of your own neoliberal worldview, which refer to a vengeful logic, other than that they are inconsistent with the European legal culture for which they are cut, create potentially jungle conditions in Greek society and this should not be allowed. I would like to make one final comment on the subject of amending Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure. I repeat, despite the fact that this provision - regulation has been withdrawn. I also stressed in my suggestion in the prototype that, with this, the case is referred to Greek justice, which will be deemed to be dominated by the existing legal order, including the Treaty of Lausanne, which recognises in Thrace only a Muslim and not an ethnic Turkish minority. We'll see about the rest when this provision comes back to the next bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. Mr. Constantine Güulekas has the floor and then the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, we too want to take a second step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u104	You haven't asked for a dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u105	We're asking now. I thought the procedure would be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u106	All right, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Giuleka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not feel like a representative of the people of the Memorandum governments speaking from the Step of the House, because this is how we were described as the one who just came down, the previous SYRIZA colleague. I would remind him, however, that in the near three years, who ruled, two memorials were passed by those who would abolish the memorials, those who would abolish HNVIA, those who, with the Thessaloniki programme, would give 12 billion benefits to the Greek people. Finally, they charged the backs of the Greek people with unbearable burdens of EUR 15 billion. I'm saying this because you know, whoever has a short memory in this Chamber, we should remind him of some things. At the house of the hanged, gentlemen of the Couple, they don't speak of rope. And stop pretending to be the defenders of the rights of the poor and the weak. We've seen it in the past few days. The Ruviks go undisturbed in the House, go away, no one gets arrested, take them home patrol, and when the workers who are made redundant in the Chalkidiki Skouria meet the MATs and tear gas. This is SYRIZA's salt card sensitivity. So stop swinging that flag of people who are monopolising the social sensitivity and defenders of the interests of the weak. With the reduction of the tax that you voted against - and will come - the weak will see what the SYRIZA Government is preparing for them. For those who pay the bride are the low wages, the low pensioners, the unemployed with imputable income - and they pay - farmers, the poor. So they will take SYRIZA's "gift" that prepared them for after their term of office. From there, because more has been heard, that you are the people who want to fight corruption, and we are the defenders of the fight against corruption and the people we care for the corrupt, I would like to make something clear. What is provided for in this case-law, namely the extension of the Law of Friday, within the exceptions, did not enter the offences related to the infringements ‘supply’, i.e. the dismantling of public money. They're not excluded. Those, in other words, stealing public money, can have the benefits of the law and get out of prison. This is your sensitivity otherwise, so you fight corruption effectively! Of course, you are absolutely right, there were no offences excluded by Law 1608/1950, which are 'no abuses of public money'. And to make it clear - I say it to close with this 'we', 'we', etc. - We will say that in the New Democracy, with two legislations we have voted on, we have committed those offences to state officials and judiciary 'to their service', in other words, offences which they have committed in the performance of their duties in their service. We also instituted the National Coordinator against the Corruption of our country. And I'm talking about 2013-2014. I would remind you that Greece then rose by twenty-five points on the international table in the countries that are effectively facing corruption. In 2016, when you took over, because you proclaim this war against corruption, Greece fell fifteen or sixteen. That's for the story. Also, for the record, Minister, I have from the committee's minutes what you said about prisons, that there is an essential job in prisons with structures which have begun to work and which are particularly effective. You meant they started operating on SYRIZA. And I replied to the committee when you mentioned the IEKs, that the IEKs had been made. And you said, "No, they hadn't been done, now we're making them." So let me say that the IEKs in prisons were founded for the first time in the New Democracy, in particular in the Korydalou, the Aylon and the Halkidiki Passengers Prison Prisons, and that second-time schools in prison also increased...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u108	In 2014. I did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u109	In 2014. So the Second Chance Schools had increased and even added to eight other penitentiary stores. The fact that you're doing it, too, is positive. I wish you would. But look, don't come here and baptize the fish and say, "We do this," "Only we do everything" etc. It's not like that. I move too quickly on to the amendments. The New Democracy's position on the evaluation issues was heard by Mr Georgioda last night. Indeed, this is where a strange situation arises. Civil servants are appreciated - and that is why they react, of course - by people who have not been evaluated themselves. In this way, indeed, you enter three different categories. In other words, there are evaluations that will be made by both the assessors and the assessors, but there are assessments that will only be made by the assessors, and there are some that will only be drawn up by the assessors without the interview of the assessor. In other words, it's a condition of hermaphrodite. In the first place, we say 'yes'. We will support this provision because we believe in evaluation and believe in a reward for the skill. In any case, however, it has too many problems with the amendment you are bringing. For the other amendment, the amendment which you incorporated with Articles 37, 38 and 39 in the draft legislation under discussion - I am talking about forest maps - I shall say, Minister, that it is the fifth in a row - if I am not mistaken - an extension of the deadline for submitting objections on forest maps. This is an element that outlines the government's curiosity on this issue and does not solve any real problems with forest maps. In any case, because you are giving this extension to raise objections, we cannot object. We therefore vote'residents' in Article 37 and'residences' in Article 38. However, as far as housing is concerned, because the Council of State has not yet delivered its opinion, we cannot prejudge the crisis of the Council of State and that is why we are voting 'no'. For the amendment withdrawn, namely Articles 40 and 41, to amend the Code of Civil Procedure, I would like to say a few words very quickly. We are, at last, pleased to have a class in this Chamber, and we are delighted, finally, that we are helping to restore the balance between the two government partners, because until now it has been disturbed. We did not know when one was agreed, when the other agreed, and what the line is. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, one, two minutes and I'll be done. In this way we believe that we will force the government majority to appear here in a uniform way or, if its problem is so serious and cannot appear in a single way, let us confess before the National Representation that, "You know, we cannot rule among ourselves." This "alk card", however, will stop. So we as a New Democracy no longer legalise this practice. When we think that something is moving in the right direction, we will give our opinion. However, we will be disagreeing here on parliamentary practice and we will not support this appearance of the government, which - let me - reminds us of a little salt. We close our eyes to some of the Greek people and tell them, "Yes, you see, we disagree, so we are the good ones", the other party comes, SYRIZA, and says, "We are addressing another audience." Do we agree? Oh, no. Now you're going to vote together and since you're going to vote together, we're going to take a stand. If we agree, we'll vote for it too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u110	All right, you're done, Mr. Giuleka.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, allow me. I am the rapporteur and we have some amendments. The government has brought too many amendments and they are serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u112	But you've covered the whole range of political topicality. Not you personally. Everybody. Prohibition upon every scientist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u113	Please very much. Let me say that the previous one left about two minutes of his speech on the issues of the bill and all the rest of it was raised by criticizing the opposition and indeed the Civic Opposition. Aren't we going to answer? So, what are we here, smashed? Please - let me - I have to give answers. I represent the New Democracy party, I am rapporteur and let me finish. That's why I asked you for a minute, two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u114	And look at the time across the street before you talk about mufflers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u115	I am looking at him and time, Mr President. Sure. But because the sights are many, fatal, give us ten minutes to finish. We are rapporteurs, anyway. This is not the first time that the Bureau has had a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u116	Look, I don't give a lump here. There's the Rules of Procedure. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u117	I agree, Mr President, but the Rules of Procedure apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u118	Hey, put an end to it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u119	I'm not going to put an end to it! I'll finish when I finish what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u120	No, that's not the case, Mr. Giuleka.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u121	Hey, turn off my microphone, Mr. President. What else can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u122	No, I don't want to turn you off your microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u123	If you don't want to, let me continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u124	Don't commit yourself now when you're violating the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u125	Do you not want to place the Qualified Opposition on the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u126	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u127	If you want, let me finish. I didn't tell you to talk until noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u128	Make appropriate use of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u129	We've been talking for two minutes already. Allow me - if you will - to conclude. I have no other way but to be able to say basic things about the amendments. However, they are very important amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u130	Use the time appropriately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u131	All right, Mr. President. I shall now proceed to the amendment with a general number of 1249 relating to the value tax. Here frankly, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we do not understand who you cover, who you want to relieve, of what amounts. We don't understand what's going on. We really don't understand it. This parliamentary amendment had come in June in a bill from the Ministry of Finance. In response to the opposition parties, the government withdrew it - Mrs Papanatsiou at that time - saying that we will bring it back again with another suggestion. He came from Mr Vardakis after a few weeks and now he is proposing this amendment. We booked for that time of summer holidays. The House has opened up and this amendment is coming back. And it does not have sufficient justification for what this is about. Of course, we are voting against it. In any case, however, we ask questions. Are you covering for someone? Why are we seeking to amend not in the existing Code of Taxation but - where? - the repealed Law 2238/1994; In other words, it is not at Law 4172/2013, but at the Act of 1994 that has been repealed. Here we would like some explanations from the government, apart from the fact that we believe that you're going to close the eye somewhere. With regard to Amendment No 1253 on the EACH issue, for the National Health Procurement Authority, let us say that this is the development of the Committee on Health Procurement. All that changed, of course, is that from forty employees became a hundred. We understand the problem, it is very serious and the workers must be paid. On the other hand, however, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the way you legislate, has not yet entered the EACH board.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Giuleka, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u133	I will end in a minute, Mr President. If it does not enter in 2017, in the next two months, 2018 will not be able to buy a hospital a single gauze. When are you gonna do this? To blackmail you - I always say this - in time and to do what you should have done already, we are also voting against this amendment, considering that you should legislate more wisely. With regard to Amendment No 1254 on the Court of Auditors, we would like to say that the fact that another step is actually added will also bring delays in time and additional bureaucracy. A further stage of crisis is actually added here, and in that sense we are opposed. We are voting against it. I have no time to develop Amendment No 1255, which deals with rebate. But I think that in this way, when we go to the single system for all hospitals and not for each hospital separately, we actually go up too much, we increase about six times, what we were trying to fight with rebate. We are opposed to that and we are voting against it. Finally, with regard to the extension of the Paradise Law - because I also started with it - here basically introduce a quasi-minor, I would say, a framework of penalties. In other words, we as legislators now end up somewhere, giving independent justice a new framework, the lawmaker, independent justice, the judge is applying this law and we are coming and saying: You know, we don't care what the judge does. The judge did well. We come and say, "Another framework is in place...". It's not like that. We disagree on this and we say 'no' in this amendment too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor, then Mr. Avatides will speak and the Minister will close. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate we are now going to have to have done it in committee, because yesterday and the Minister, but also other majority Members, have told us that we are not reading, secondly, we are not dealing with anti-crime policy, and thirdly we are not following international literature. We therefore considered that we were talking about overpopulation in prisons. I have asked the Minister for a first meeting to bring forward the amendment in time so that we can discuss it, so that we can also give our opinion, but there is also an integrated draft, anti-crime policy in relation to the distribution of prisoners, with the penalties, with the interventions that can be made to dismantle prisons. This has not been done and the amendment has actually been tabled at the last hour. It has not been done, because there is a reason, ladies and gentlemen. Since 2006, Minister, I have been working on the overpopulation of prisons. I have written about all the laws, which were passed by the House on ad hoc intervention by the governments, so that there is a decongestion of the penitentiary population. I compared the evidence with what you're giving. I think there is no more surreal debate today than we do on assumptions which, at least, do not correspond to the reality, ladies and gentlemen. I ask the Ministry of Justice - and thankfully the Ministry of Justice gives very good information - "How many prisoners fit in Greek prisons?" Not in general. A few months ago. And the Ministry of Justice responds - it does not respond, but it is a press release - on 22-5-2017 that the positions in Greek prisons are nine thousand eight hundred fifteen, ladies and gentlemen. These are the evidence from the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u136	These are the prisoners right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u137	Of course, Minister, you can answer that later if you like. ...with a distribution of positions of seven thousand five hundred twelve for men, three hundred fifteen for young, seven hundred sixty-five for women, a thousand twenty-nine for rural prisons. These are the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u138	That's what we told you. They're the prisoners today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u139	No, I'm talking about the positions in Greek prisons, what we call the capacity of Greek prisons. The nine thousand eighty-five, then, are the positions we have in Greek prisons. That is why, Minister, you should also bring the matter to the Special Committee on Penalty to be discussed. Because, as I told you from the beginning, it would give you good suggestions. Is there an overpopulation in Greek prisons today? Is what the explanatory statement states "collapse excessive in Greek prisons"? On 10 May 2017, therefore, the Ministry of Justice has the division of detainees in all shops. In most stores the coverage is under 60%. Are there stores that are overloaded today? Sure. Jump 126%, Corinth 123%, 69%, Chalkida 157%. Total number of detainees of nine thousand five hundred seventy three on 10 May 2017. These are the most recent elements which I will be tabling in the Minutes, to prove that when we talk about excessive crowding, you understand that it is a surrealist debate that we have nine thousand eight hundred seats and, on the other hand, nine thousand five hundred seventy three prisoners. This is not called 'costism' in the world literature. This is called 'bad distribution' if we have overpopulation prisons and some others we have empty positions. Do you want me to understand the question that, in most prisons, all positions cannot be covered because some of them are in a very bad state? Of course! Let us see, then, what the government can do, what the state can do, so that it can give the prisoners better conditions. However, the figures, ladies and gentlemen, and since the chairman of the Committee on Penitentiary is here and the Minister, do not give any methodology to the impression of any crowding in prisons today. There are uncertainties, there are weaknesses, there is a bad distribution. There is an distribution, of course, which has to do with the type of sentence or the prisoners, but you should see that the dialogue which has developed since yesterday, the ones that Mr Paradise and the Minister have smuggled us into, that we are not following anti-crime policy, you understand that they are not standing at all. This dialogue was not held in committee, Minister. We spoke a day and a day in the committee on penitentiary overpopulation, and the figures prove the exact opposite. I'm not telling you the circumstances are good in Greek prisons. But I say to you that we cannot, with these measures you are bringing, cure the problems that exist today. But what is the distribution of prisoners? Let's get a standard date, as we get every year, to compare to the previous years, 1-1-2017. In Greek prisons then we had two thousand eight hundred twenty-nine judiciaries in nine thousand five hundred sixty. So the penitentiary population, in a close sense, is almost six thousand five hundred. Do you want to know how many of them fall under the basic charges that the Ministry of Justice comes to intercede? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is very important, Mr President. I'm just asking for your tolerance for one, two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u140	You've got a minute and you're done. What we are talking about here is important, in terms of what we call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the minutes the extract from the above scientific work, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you know what the scale is between the prisoners who have been sentenced for over five years up to fifteen years and over? They are five thousand prisoners who are now coming and entering, if you like, those who will benefit from the measures of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis. What for? Have we done an evaluation of the criminal deception of crimes? Have we tried to become greater - I am not against - decongestion in Greek prisons, but on criteria when the criteria set by the law do not exclude the criminal organisation, Article 187 of the Criminal Code, which means for penalties over ten years, when you do not exclude 187A of the Criminal Code that is the terrorist organisation, when you do not exclude what you have said before, which, if you like, is really - because you spoke yesterday with hard designations, Mr Minister, you spoke of 'caragiozianias', - ridiculous not to exclude those who have been convicted of corruption against the public? The question, after all, is this: If we do not have a crowd, if we do not have an overpopulation, if we can make a better distribution, if we can intervene in the countryside of prisons, if we can have measures, Minister, such as the fees for penalties in rural prisons, which are measures appropriate for organising an anti-crime integration policy, then why have we brought this here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u142	All right, put a perfect one, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u143	So I'm just finishing up with this. Minister, is the target different? Is the target that I told you since yesterday that you want prisoners to go out of prison, regardless of risk, regardless of penalty, which is why there is this regulation? You start with a minimum sentence of three and a half months and go with a minimum sentence of eight years. They all go into the same bucket.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u144	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u145	I shall now conclude, Mr President. This policy, not only does not correspond to any methodology of anti-crime policy, but shows that the targeting was completely different from the one you explained to us, from the one in the explanatory statement. Your aim was to clear out the prisons, because that was what you promised in specific circles of your party and your own, if you would like, influence in prisons. It's a bad policy. This bad policy, you know, is about society as a whole, about public security, about the protection of human rights and, indeed, it is the last thing, as you said, but a key sign that you are dealing with the question of the penitentiary system, as on all other issues, not just by violating basic principles of law, since here your particular policy conflicts with basic principles of public security and legal security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a comment. I don't want to get to the point where we can turn off the microphones. The point is that respect for time and the Bureau presupposes self-respect. Whoever's got him, he's got him. Mr. Aivatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by referring to the special speaker of the Democratic Independence, who for eleven minutes - and after being abused with your tolerance of time - failed to give a very important element concerning the so-called Act of Friday. This figure is the percentage of foreigners, especially from third world countries, who have been convicted mainly in drug cases, and which exceed 55% to 60% of inmates. This is a very important element and I think it helps us all to understand why there is - if there is, of course - this congestion in Greek prisons: it is because of foreigners, most of whom have entered the country illegally and who, of course, have committed various offences and even abuses over a number of years. I then refer to Amendment 1247, which the Minister withdrew, and now Articles 40 and 41 have been removed. The Minister described this amendment as an 'innocent' amendment. The Golden Dawn intervention has shown that this amendment has some suspicious, hidden, anti-national elements, and that is why we analysed the issue, concerning the so-called - abusive, of course - 'Turkish Union of Thrace'. I think that the Minister clearly took into account the position of the Golden Dawn, its opposition to this amendment, but also took into account the opposition of the Independent Greeks and did not want to compromise a vote on this matter. This amendment, regardless of the question of the so-called 'Turkish Union of Thrace', is not innocent, Minister, because it overshadows or tries to overshadow, in any case destroys the irreversibleness of the decisions of the Ice Bay. So, then, it is not innocent at all, you just want to show this as an attempt to harmonize with European legislation. However, because, Minister, it has been heard by you that you will sometime reintroduce this amendment relating to Article 758 of the Code of Civil Procedure, I would like to ask you not to reintroduce Article 41 in any case, which has been deleted, namely retroactiveness. If you want to harmonize Greek legislation with European legislation on this point - and I repeat that this is the assignment of national sovereignty - that this retroactiveness does not exist, that is, the possibility of withdrawing within a year from the publication of this law. I shall now come to the subject of Amendment No 1257 on the extension of the law on the decongestion of prisons, the so-called - I repeat - the Act of Friday. We believe that he is dangerous to public order and security and should be withdrawn. In the committee, of course, the Golden Dawn had asked for a review. Indeed, the Minister has made a review, but it has not included the issue of those who have been convicted of drug abuse or public money abusers in this review. In particular, on the issue of drugs, I think that the convicted should be included in the exceptions to the application of the extension of the Act of Friday. As I said before, third world foreigners are the offenders who are currently at a rate of over 55% to 60% within the Greek prisons. In any case, logic requires this: that when someone is incarcerated, excluded from society and cannot repeat - as long as he is incarcerated - his wrongful behaviour. That's self-evident. Unfortunately, Mr. Paradoxopoulos attempted to nurture an independent MP, Mr. Karras, who referred to a police officer who told him that the ones who are being released early have retreat to their criminal behaviour. Mr Paradoxopoulos said 'Let someone finally bring a literature'. It appears, I repeat, as a mobile library of SYRIZA. However, it will receive the answer and the answer is a specific job that is in place and which I will present in the Minutes. It's scientific work and it's about forensics. It's American and it's about the time Mr. Paraparapulos introduced the law, which was passed. It's American. That's American. Other information: (a) Other information: (b) Other information: Listed pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 of resolution 1970 (Travel Ban). The American writers are Michael Roach and Max Sanzebach. Mr. Paraskevi's argument was to bring in a scientific work that one month differentiates relapse to criminal behaviour. Well, the Golden Dawn brings it and will testify it in the Minutes. The conclusion of these scientists, then, is this: we have found - the authors say - that every extra month of imprisonment is reducing the relapse rate - criminal relapse is meant - about 1%. I am therefore presenting, Mr President, an excerpt of this scientific work with a brief translation that I have made. The Minister, but also Mr Paradoxopoulos, should take this article into account, because it is not all that supports these things. Repeat that early release does not lead to penitentiary. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. And today the debate was, not most of all, in the draft law, which has the acceptance of a majority of the parties to the House, but on other issues, particularly on the issue of the provision for decongestion and on the question of the provision withdrew from Rules 41 and 42. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the government with a sense of responsibility has brought about the possibility of reintroducing a Greek citizen's right to reinstate himself to Greek justice after the outcome of the trial before the Court of Human Rights since the first meeting of the committee. I spoke on this matter, the SYRIZA rapporteur spoke, but none of the parties' representatives, the rapporteurs, said nothing at all, expressed the slightest objection. The government does not, therefore, legislate in secret, as some have claimed. In absolute transparency we have brought this provision, we have put it in the committee's judgement and no one has objected to it. Nowadays, then, some come and launch cords against the government, and all I urged them to do was read the order. I repeat, despite the fact that we have withdrawn it, that these two articles have to do with respect for the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the possibility offered to Greek citizens, to all Greek citizens, if they have won a trial at the European Court of Human Rights to review their case even if it has been closed to the appellant by the Greek courts, that is, these decisions have become irrevocable. And the Greek courts - and I told you yesterday - will decide again, taking into account the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, on whether or not the reasons are valid. I told you yesterday and something else, which you have constantly circumvented those who oppose this amendment. I told you that the order does not bind the Greek courts, but they will review the whole of the Court of Justice's ruling, and they will end up. It is clearly unfounded to say that this provision applies only to the unions, which some wanted to call Turkish in Thrace, because in this case again the Greek justice will weigh a decision by a European court in relation to the country's international treaties in force, and it can come to the same conclusion from a different path. In fact, today my colleague from the Democratic Alliance, who comes from the Thrace region, said: But, so, you know, if the courts decide again negatively, we will have a new circle. But the legislative authority cannot dictate court rulings. That is why we brought this provision. This whole misguided situation on national issues, which, with this amendment, is supposed to be conducting anti-nationals, etc., is at least comic. They are unfounded and they are put forward for tiny reasons, because you have nothing more to say to the government. I say to you that if you read the provision, you would see that all that I take as a case of work, as well as good fears, is not the case. None of this applies at all. I would like to point out that, because I had discussed with Mr Dannelly, there was the position of the river, which had not yet been expressed by the Step of Parliament, that it was positive for this provision to be voted on as it comes. But we do not want to create impressions. That is why I think that a necessary period will make it clear to everyone that this provision contains nothing treacherous and, in any case, the country's international treaties are absolutely binding on the Greek courts above all. I come to the point of the dismantling clause. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said. First of all, I would like to reply - I think that Mr Papatheodorou well said so - about some of the figures he mentioned. These figures you mentioned, Mr Papatheodorou, are numbers that approach the limits of a situation which is not handled in prisons, as far as the number of prisoners is concerned. I tell you that if we did not bring this provision, for a whole year, the number of detainees, based on our estimates, would exceed ten thousand. In July the previous law was in force. Therefore, you should see this in the perspective of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u150	Three hundred and fifty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u151	No, it's not plus three hundred fifty. I'm telling you, he's going to get closer and out of ten thousand. Therefore, here, we have almost a thousand prisoners who will accumulate in prisons and make prison conditions problematic. Most of all, however, there will be problems with the structures that we would like to have, such as the Second Opportunities Schools, the IEKs, the reception areas of the families of the detainees, who are also inaugurated, the sport areas, which also operate on a large number of experiential and positive points. Therefore, the criticism you made - I repeat - was criticism that seems to be good, but is based on elements of the year that ended and that were in force the previous law of decongestion. If we do not take these measures - and I say this to the whole of the National Representation - then we will again have a situation of Columbia in prisons. As regards the issue you said, the distribution, you know the distribution is not just an administrative act, it is not just about the administrative services of the Ministry of Justice. This is about the distribution made by prosecutors, etc., as well as the outstanding cases of prisoners in Athens, who have been convicted of other cases and must be in Korydalos. That's why we're seeing this overcompensation on the Cental. I repeat that I answer you on the substance and on your arguments, precisely so that there is no point in the issues you have raised. It has been said by my colleague that in this way prisoners will always be aware that regardless of the penalty imposed on them by the courts, they will be fired sometime earlier. I repeat this is a measure envisaged by the introduction of the Criminal Code in Article 105, that is to say, decades full now. Secondly, the issues of decongestion - I said yesterday - are exceptional measures, exceptional laws. I hope - and I am almost certain - that this will be the last time we will legislate on this process. Because with the reform of the Criminal Code, we will have other frameworks of penalties, and so other management of prisons. Let us not speak easily from the Step of Parliament, when the government's political will is clearly expressed and leaves no margin. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to the amendment to the Court of Auditors. I would like to stress that this amendment achieves speeding up procedures and speeding up their integration. Mr Athanasios asked me if we have the assent of the Court of Auditors and I replied: 'We certainly have it'. We had put this in our minds. I believe that in the near future this will also play a positive role in measures to speed up proceedings before all the courts in the country. I urge you to vote in favour of it. Today there has been a mention, ladies and gentlemen, of the Government's choices in the leadership of the Ice Bay. I would like to say to everyone that this is the first time after too many years that the leadership of the Ice Bay, which the government has chosen, has accepted this. Even in the Chamber of Parliament it appeared that thing. Despite what has been said - and I shall mention - the leadership chosen by the government has enormous acceptance by Parliament's parties. And you have all said, for example, that this is a matter of excellent judicial officers. That is something I stress. It is positive, but it is first and foremost positive for the government, which proves to have made the best choices for the leadership of the Ice Bay. There was an objection, the delay three months. First of all, it's not three months, it's two months. And you know very well that in July the second assessment and government were being closed down, and in July it had given all its mind to finish this chapter and finally into a stream of regularity. You should not count in August, because in August the House was closed. Therefore, it could not be done before the House and you would therefore not charge August to the Government. In September the proceedings started, so we had a 30-day delay. I would like to say, in particular to New Democracy, that this was a permanent state of affairs. We had an extraordinary problem here in July and immediately in September the selection procedures were launched. And apparently, the choices were excellent. I would like to mention, because there has been a reference to this procedure provided for in the Constitution. The Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, provides for it. The way in which this House is chosen and involved shall ensure transparency. The 1975 Constitution sets out the preconditions of the current Supreme Judges for the positions of the President and Vice-Presidents and I believe that the government has successfully fulfilled its duty and its right. Finally, I should like to refer to the following: there was a lot of talk yesterday, and I too spoke very strongly about the behaviour of parties that come to Parliament and say: 'We agree with the order, but we will not vote on it'. I referred to this practice with harsh expressions - which I am not used to - but it was an unprecedented fact for parliamentary customs to come parliamentarians, parties and rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives and say: 'We agree with a provision, but we do not vote on it'. And I said that this is irresponsible and political bipolarism. I have not mentioned, Mr Javarra, because you have now entered and you have not heard me, neither in your legal claims nor in all the others you have mentioned, part of which I am in agreement. I didn't talk about it. I referred to the practice of your party. To say your party: "We will not tell you whether we agree or disagree, but we will vote against it, because here the Allied Party in SYRIZA raises objections". I also referred to the behaviour of PASOK, which said that we agree, but we do not vote for the same reason. That's what I've been talking about, Mr. Javarra. I therefore call on you to take back what you have said about me personally, because I have never spoken iniqually about opinions expressed in the House and which may find me contrary or completely opposite. I've never talked that way. Therefore, these designations I return them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u152	Good. And that's what to close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u153	Mr. President, I want to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u154	You just don't accept them. You're not returning them. Because if you return them, it means you commit the same mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u155	I am returning them and calling on you to withdraw them because I am telling you again that I have made neither judgments nor anything else on the politicians, nor on the legal arguments you have put forward from the Plenary Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u156	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u157	Good. Let's not recycle it. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u158	I would therefore ask you, whenever you refer to something I have said, to identify it precisely and not to go wherever you want. Mr President, I should like to say this and return to prisons: the current situation of prisons is manageable. With the law we are voting on - and you know that he also found reactions from a portion of prisoners, because they did not like it, as if we were establishing rights with extraordinary laws - this situation will be completely manageable for next year. I consider this policy to be a question of penalisation and anti-crime policy. I have told you and I stress - and I conclude with this - that it is a precondition for a serious penitentiary policy and anti-criminal policy in detention stores to exist human living conditions in prisons and that human rights should also be respected in this area, because prisoners are human beings, are not there for extermination, and their rights, internationally guaranteed rights, must be respected by the Greek state. I conclude with something I mentioned yesterday and some bypass it deliberately. If we want to compare the achievements of this government in this area with any other government, we are here, at your disposal, because on the days that you have been ruling for so many years, so many decades, we have had unacceptable detention conditions and convicts of the country. What Mr Athanasios said, namely, that there are currently also convictions, first of all, regarding the conditions of detention, refers to years that you have ruled, in 2014 and in the first months of 2015, which we had not been able to take those measures that we had to take. Secondly, they are sentences on individual appeals on other issues, not on detention conditions. There will always be for all the states of the European Union. That is what those who have nursed in Europe know very well. However, this does not mean that there are sentences today for detention conditions in prisons. This is absolutely disorientative and false. Today we are praised for the efforts that have been made and I told you that Greece is the first country to improve the detention conditions in all European countries. That's not what I said, the government doesn't say, SYRIZA doesn't say. The President of the European Court of Human Rights, Mr Raimondi, and the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Mr Jagland, said so. These are achievements that internationally upgrade the country and these are the very important ones that the government has achieved in a very short time. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the draft law is concerned, there has been a constructive debate. I am pleased that the majority of the parties are in favour of his vote. I would like to stress once again that the procedural conditions for protecting the accused are fully respected and, of course, the country's ability to respond to requests which will be submitted to it is respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u159	Good, Minister. Can we vote for the bill now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, this is over and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is finalised: 'European mandate for research in criminal matters - Harmonization of legislation by Directive 2014/41/EU and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u165	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u166	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u170	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights ‘European mandate for investigation into criminal matters - Harmonisation of legislation with Directive 2014/41/EU and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u174	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u175	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u179	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u183	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u184	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u188	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u192	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u193	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u197	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u201	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u202	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u206	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u210	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u215	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u219	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u224	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u228	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u229	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u233	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u237	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u242	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u246	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u251	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u260	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u264	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u265	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u269	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u273	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u274	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u278	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u282	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u283	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u287	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u291	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u292	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u296	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u300	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u301	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u305	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u309	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u310	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u314	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u318	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u323	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u327	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u332	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u341	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u350	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u359	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u364	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u368	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u377	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u382	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u386	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u390	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u395	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u404	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u413	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u418	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u422	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u426	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u431	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u440	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u449	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u454	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u458	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u462	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u463	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u467	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u472	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u476	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u481	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u485	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u489	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u490	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u493	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u494	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u496	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u497	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u499	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u503	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u512	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u514	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u521	Article 39 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Articles 40 and 41 have been withdrawn. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1253 and a special number 101 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u523	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u530	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1253 and a special 101 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number 1254 and a specific 102 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u538	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u539	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1254 and a special 102 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1255 and a special number of 103 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u542	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u548	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1255 and a special 103 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1257 and a special 105, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u550	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u551	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u557	The amendment with a general number of 1257 and a special 105 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number of 1249 and a special number of 100?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u559	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u560	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u561	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u562	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u566	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1249 and a special 100 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1256 and a special figure of 104 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u574	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u575	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1256 and a special 104 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u579	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u584	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: “European mandate for investigation into criminal matters – Harmonisation of legislation with Directive 2014/41/EU and other provisions” was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u588	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u593	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘European mandate for investigation into criminal matters - Harmonisation of legislation with Directive 2014/41/EU and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u594	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u595	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-20-S1-commons.u596	With the consent of the House at 12.18 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 21 September 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
